

ANIMIST
An"i*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animiste.]

Defn: One who maintains the doctrine of animism.

ANIMISTIC
An`i*mis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to animism. Huxley. Tylor.

ANIMOSE; ANIMOUS
An`i*mose", An"i*mous, a. Etym: [L. animosus, fr. animus soul,
spirit, courage.]

Defn: Full of spirit; hot; vehement; resolute. [Obs.] Ash.

ANIMOSENESS
An`i*mose"ness, n.

Defn: Vehemence of temper. [Obs.]

ANIMOSITY
An`i*mos"i*ty, n.; pl. Animosities. Etym: [F. animosité, fr. L.
animositas. See Animose, Animate, v. t.]

1. Mere spiritedness or courage. [Obs.] Skelton.
Such as give some proof of animosity, audacity, and execution, those
she [the crocodile] loveth. Holland.

2. Violent hatred leading to active opposition; active enmity;
energetic dislike. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Enmity; hatred; opposition.
 -- Animosity, Enmity. Enmity be dormant or concealed; animosity is
active enmity, inflamed by collision and mutual injury between
opposing parties. The animosities which were continually springing up
among the clans in Scotland kept that kingdom in a state of turmoil
and bloodshed for successive ages. The animosities which have been
engendered among Christian sects have always been the reproach of the
church.
Such [writings] as naturally conduce to inflame hatreds and make
enmities irreconcilable. Spectator.
[These] factions . . . never suspended their animosities till they
ruined that unhappy government. Hume.

ANIMUS
An"i*mus, n.; pl. Animi. Etym: [L., mind.]

Defn: Animating spirit; intention; temper. nimus furandi Etym: [L.]
(Law), intention of stealing.

ANION
An"i*on, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro-
chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed to
cation. Faraday.

ANISE
An"ise, n. Etym: [OE. anys, F. anis, L. anisum, anethum, fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally in
Egypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative and
aromatic seeds.

2. The fruit or seeds of this plant.

ANISEED
An"i*seed, n.

Defn: The seed of the anise; also, a cordial prepared from it. "Oil
of aniseed." Brande & C.

ANISETTE
An`i*sette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A French cordial or liqueur flavored with anise seeds. De
Colange.

ANISIC
A*nis"ic, a.

Defn: Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol.

ANISOCORIA
An`i*so*co"ri*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  +  pupil.] (Med.)

Defn: Inequality of the pupils of the eye.

ANISODACTYLA; ANISODACTYLS
An`i*so*dac"ty*la, An`i*so*dac"tyls, n. pl. Etym: [NL. anisodactyla,
fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) A group of herbivorous mammals characterized by having the hoofs
in a single series around the foot, as the elephant, rhinoceros, etc.
(b) A group of perching birds which are anisodactylous.

ANISODACTYLOUS
An`i*so*dac"ty*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Characterized by unequal toes, three turned forward and one
backward, as in most passerine birds.

ANISOL
An"i*sol, n.  [Anisic + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Methyl phenyl ether, C6H5OCH3, got by distilling anisic acid or
by the action of methide on potassium phenolate.

ANISOMERIC
An`i*so*mer"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Not isomeric; not made of the same components in the same
proportions.

ANISOMEROUS
An`i*som"er*ous, a. Etym: [See Anisomeric.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the number of floral organs unequal, as four petals and
six stamens.

ANISOMETRIC
An`i*so*met"ric, a. Etym: [Gr. isometric.]

Defn: Not isometric; having unsymmetrical parts; -- said of crystals
with three unequal axes. Dana.

ANISOMETROPIA
An`i*so*me*tro"pi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  +  measure + , , eye.]

Defn: Unequal refractive power in the two eyes.

ANISOPETALOUS
An`i*so*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having unequal petals.

ANISOPHYLLOUS
An`i*soph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having unequal leaves.

ANISOPLEURA
An`i*so*pleu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A primary division of gastropods, including those having spiral
shells. The two sides of the body are unequally developed.

ANISOPODA
An`i*sop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Crustacea, which, in some its characteristics, is
intermediate between Amphipoda and Isopoda.

ANISOSPORE
An"i*so*spore`, n. [Gr.  priv. + isospore.] (Biol.)

Defn: A sexual spore in which the sexes differ in size; -- opposed to
isospore.

ANISOSTEMONOUS
An`i*so*stem"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having unequal stamens; having stamens different in number from
the petals.

ANISOSTHENIC
An`i*so*sthen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of unequal strength.

ANISOTROPE; ANISOTROPIC
An"i*so*trope`, An`i*so*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Not isotropic; having different properties in different
directions; thus, crystals of the isometric system are optically
isotropic, but all other crystals are anisotropic.

ANISOTROPOUS
An`i*sot"ro*pous, a.

Defn: Anisotropic.

ANISYL
An"i*syl, n. (Org. Chem.)
 (a) The univalent radical, CH3OC6H4, of which anisol is the hydride.
 (b) The univalent radical CH3OC6H4CH2; as, anisyl alcohol.
 (c) The univalent radical CH3OC6H4CO, of anisic acid.

ANITO
A*ni"to, n.; pl. -tos (#). [Sp.]

Defn: In Guam and the Philippines, an idol, fetich, or spirit.

ANKER
An"ker, n. Etym: [D. anker: cf. LL. anceria, ancheria.]

Defn: A liquid measure in various countries of Europe. The Dutch
anker, formerly also used in England, contained about 10 of the old
wine gallons, or 8

ANKERITE
An"ker*ite, n. Etym: [So called from Prof. Anker of Austria: cf. F.
ankérite, G. ankerit.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral closely related to dolomite, but containing iron.

ANKH
Ankh, n. [Egypt.] (Egypt. Archæol.)

Defn: A tau cross with a loop at the top, used as an attribute or
sacred emblem, symbolizing generation or enduring life. Called also
crux ansata.

ANKLE
An"kle, n. Etym: [OE. ancle, anclow, AS. ancleow; akin to Icel.
ökkla, ökli, Dan. and Sw. ankel, D. enklaauw, enkel, G. enkel, and
perh. OHG. encha, ancha thigh, shin: cf. Skr. anga limb, anguri
finger. Cf. Haunch.]

Defn: The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus.
Ankle bone, the bone of the ankle; the astragalus.

ANKLED
An"kled, a.

Defn: Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled. Beau. &
Fl.

ANKLET
An"klet, n.

Defn: An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring.

ANKUS
An"kus, n. [Hind., fr. Skr. ankuça.]

Defn: An elephant goad with a sharp spike and hook, resembling a
short-handled boat hook. [India] Kipling.

ANKYLOSE
An"ky*lose, v. t. & i.

Defn: Same as Anchylose.

ANKYLOSIS
An`ky*lo"sis, n.

Defn: Same as Anchylosis.

ANKYLOSTOMIASIS
An`ky*los*to*mi"a*sis, n. [NL., fr. Ankylostoma, var. of
Agchylostoma, generic name of one genus of the parasitic nematodes.]
(Med.)

Defn: A disease due to the presence of the parasites Agchylostoma
duodenale, Uncinaria (subgenus Necator) americana, or allied
nematodes, in the small intestine. When present in large numbers they
produce a severe anæmia by sucking the blood from the intestinal
walls.  Called also miner's anæmia, tunnel disease, brickmaker's
anæmia, Egyptian chlorosis.

ANLACE
An"lace, n. Etym: [Origin unknown.]

Defn: A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle. [Written also
anelace.]

ANLAUT
An"laut`, n. [G.; an on + laut sound.] (Phon.)

Defn: An initial sound, as of a word or syllable.

-- Im anlaut, initially; when initial; --used of sounds.

ANN; ANNAT
Ann, An"nat, n. Etym: [LL. annata income of a year, also, of half a
year, fr. L. annus year: cf. F. annate annats.] (Scots Law)

Defn: A half years's stipend, over and above what is owing for the
incumbency, due to a minister's heirs after his decease.

ANNA
An"na, n. Etym: [Hindi ana.]

Defn: An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, or
about 2

ANNAL
An"nal, n.

Defn: See Annals.

ANNALIST
An"nal*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annaliste.]

Defn: A writer of annals.
The monks . . . were the only annalists in those ages. Hume.

ANNALISTIC
An`nal*is"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or after the manner of, an annalist; as, the dry
annalistic style."A stiff annalistic method." Sir G. C. Lewis.

ANNALIZE
An"nal*ize, v. t.

Defn: To record in annals. Sheldon.

ANNALS
An"nals, n. pl. Etym: [L. annalis (sc. liber), and more frequently in
the pl. annales (sc. libri), chronicles, fr. annus year. Cf. Annual.]

1. A relation of events in chronological order, each event being
recorded under the year in which it happened. "Annals the
revolution." Macaulay. "The annals of our religion." Rogers.

2. Historical records; chronicles; history.
The short and simple annals of the poor. Gray.
It was one of the most critical periods in our annals. Burke.

3. sing.

Defn: The record of a single event or item. "In deathless annal."
Young.

4. A periodic publication, containing records of discoveries,
transactions of societies, etc.; as "Annals of Science."

Syn.
 -- History. See History.

ANNATS; ANNATES
An"nats, An"nates, n. pl. Etym: [See Ann.] (Eccl. Law)

Defn: The first year's profits of a spiritual preferment, anciently
paid by the clergy to the pope; first fruits. In England, they now
form a fund for the augmentation of poor livings.

ANNEAL
An*neal", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Annealing.]
Etym: [OE. anelen to heat, burn, AS. an; an on + to burn; also OE.
anelen to enamel, prob. influenced by OF. neeler, nieler, to put a
black enamel on gold or silver, F. nieller, fr. LL. nigellare to
blacken, fr. L. nigellus blackish, dim. of niger black. Cf. Niello,
Negro.]

1. To subject to great heat, and then cool slowly, as glass, cast
iron, steel, or other metal, for the purpose of rendering it less
brittle; to temper; to toughen.

2. To heat, as glass, tiles, or earthenware, in order to fix the
colors laid on them.

ANNEALER
An*neal"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, anneals.

ANNEALING
An*neal"ing, n.

1. The process used to render glass, iron, etc., less brittle,
performed by allowing them to cool very gradually from a high heat.

2. The burning of metallic colors into glass, earthenware, etc.

ANNECTENT
An*nec"tent, a. Etym: [L. annectere to tie or bind to. See Annex.]

Defn: Connecting; annexing. Owen.

ANNELID; ANNELIDAN
An`ne*lid, An*nel"i*dan, a. Etym: [F. annélide, fr. anneler to
arrange in rings, OF. anel a ring, fr. L. anellus a ring, dim. of
annulus a ring.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annelida.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Annelida.

ANNELIDA
An*nel"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Annelid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Articulata, having the body formed of
numerous rings or annular segments, and without jointed legs. The
principal subdivisions are the Chætopoda, including the Oligochæta or
earthworms and Polychæta or marine worms; and the Hirudinea or
leeches. See Chætopoda.

ANNELIDOUS
An*nel"i*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of the nature of an annelid.

ANNELLATA
An`nel*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Annelida.

ANNELOID
An"ne*loid, n. Etym: [F. annelé ringed + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal resembling an annelid.

ANNEX
An*nex", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annexed; p. pr. & vb. n. Annexing.]
Etym: [F. annexer, fr. L. annexus, p. p. of annectere to tie or bind
to; ad + nectere to tie, to fasten together, akin to Skr. nah to
bind.]

1. To join or attach; usually to subjoin; to affix; to append; --
followed by to. "He annexed a codicil to a will." Johnson.

2. To join or add, as a smaller thing to a greater.
He annexed a province to his kingdom. Johnson.

3. To attach or connect, as a consequence, condition, etc.; as, to
annex a penalty to a prohibition, or punishment to guilt.

Syn.
 -- To add; append; affix; unite; coalesce. See Add.

ANNEX
An*nex", v. i.

Defn: To join; to be united. Tooke.

ANNEX
An*nex", n. Etym: [F. annexe, L. annexus, neut. annexum, p. p. of
annectere.]

Defn: Something annexed or appended; as, an additional stipulation to
a writing, a subsidiary building to a main building; a wing.

ANNEXATION
An`nex*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annexation. See Annex, v. t.]

1. The act of annexing; process of attaching, adding, or appending;
the act of connecting; union; as, the annexation of Texas to the
United States, or of chattels to the freehold.

2.
(a) (Law) The union of property with a freehold so as to become a
fixture. Bouvier. (b) (Scots Law) The appropriation of lands or rents
to the crown. Wharton.

ANNEXATIONIST
An`nex*a"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who favors annexation.

ANNEXER
An*nex"er, n.

Defn: One who annexes.

ANNEXION
An*nex"ion, n. Etym: [L. annexio a tying to, connection: cf. F.
annexion.]

Defn: Annexation. [R.] Shak.

ANNEXIONIST
An*nex"ion*ist, n.

Defn: An annexationist. [R.]

ANNEXMENT
An*nex"ment, n.

Defn: The act of annexing, or the thing annexed; appendage. [R.]
Shak.

ANNIHILABLE
An*ni"hi*la*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being annihilated.

ANNIHILATE
An*ni"hi*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annihilated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Annihilating.] Etym: [L. annihilare; ad + nihilum, nihil, nothing, ne
hilum (filum) not a thread, nothing at all. Cf. File, a row.]

1. To reduce to nothing or nonexistence; to destroy the existence of;
to cause to cease to be.
It impossible for any body to be utterly annihilated. Bacon.

2. To destroy the form or peculiar distinctive properties of, so that
the specific thing no longer exists; as, to annihilate a forest by
cutting down the trees. "To annihilate the army." Macaulay.

3. To destroy or eradicate, as a property or attribute of a thing; to
make of no effect; to destroy the force, etc., of; as, to annihilate
an argument, law, rights, goodness.

ANNIHILATE
An*ni"hi*late, a.

Defn: Anhilated. [Archaic] Swift.

ANNIHILATION
An*ni`hi*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annihilation.]

1. The act of reducing to nothing, or nonexistence; or the act of
destroying the form or combination of parts under which a thing
exists, so that the name can no longer be applied to it; as, the
annihilation of a corporation.

2. The state of being annihilated. Hooker.

ANNIHILATIONIST
An*ni`hi*la"tion*ist, n. (Theol.)

Defn: One who believes that eternal punishment consists in
annihilation or extinction of being; a destructionist.

ANNIHILATIVE
An*ni"hi*la*tive, a.

Defn: Serving to annihilate; destructive.

ANNIHILATOR
An*ni"hi*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, annihilates; as, a fire annihilator.

ANNIHILATORY
An*ni"hi*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Annihilative.

ANNIVERSARILY
An`ni*ver"sa*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: Annually. [R.] Bp. Hall.

ANNIVERSARY
An`ni*ver"sa*ry, a. Etym: [L. anniversarius; annus year + vertere,
versum, to turn: cf. F. anniversaire.]

Defn: Returning with the year, at a stated time; annual; yearly; as,
an anniversary feast. Anniversary day (R. C. Ch.). See Anniversary,
n., 2.
 -- Anniversary week, that week in the year in which the annual
meetings of religious and benevolent societies are held in Boston and
New York. [Eastern U. S.]

ANNIVERSARY
An`ni*ver"sa*ry, n.; pl. Anniversaries. Etym: [Cf. F. anniversaire.]

1. The annual return of the day on which any notable event took
place, or is wont to be celebrated; as, the anniversary of the
Declaration of Independence.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The day on which Mass is said yearly for the soul of a deceased
person; the commemoration of some sacred event, as the dedication of
a church or the consecration of a pope.

3. The celebration which takes place on an anniversary day. Dryden.

ANNIVERSE
An"ni*verse, n. Etym: [L. anni versus the turning of a year.]

Defn: Anniversary. [Obs.] Dryden.

ANNODATED
An"no*da`ted, a. Etym: [L. ad to + nodus a knot.] (Her.)

Defn: Curved somewhat in the form of the letter S. Cussans.

ANNO DOMINI
An"no Dom"i*ni. Etym: [L., in the year of [our] Lord [Jesus Christ];
usually abbrev. a. d.]

Defn: In the year of the Christian era; as, a. d. 1887.

ANNOMINATE
An*nom"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To name. [R.]

ANNOMINATION
An*nom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. annominatio. See Agnomination.]

1. Paronomasia; punning.

2. Alliteration. [Obs.] Tyrwhitt.

ANNOTATE
An"no*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annotated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Annotating.] Etym: [L. annotatus; p. p. of annotare to annotate; ad +
notare to mark, nota mark. See Note, n.]

Defn: To explain or criticize by notes; as, to annotate the works of
Bacon.

ANNOTATE
An"no*tate, v. i.

Defn: To make notes or comments; -- with on or upon.

ANNOTATION
An`no*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. annotatio: cf. F. annotation.]

Defn: A note, added by way of comment, or explanation; -- usually in
the plural; as, annotations on ancient authors, or on a word or a
passage.

ANNOTATIONIST
An`no*ta"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An annotator. [R.]

ANNOTATIVE
An"no*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by annotations; of the nature of annotation.

ANNOTATOR
An"no*ta`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A writer of annotations; a commentator.

ANNOTATORY
An*no"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an annotator; containing annotations. [R.]

ANNOTINE
An"no*tine, n. Etym: [L. annotinus a year old.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird one year old, or that has once molted.

ANNOTINOUS
An*not"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. annotinus, fr. annus year.] (Bot.)

Defn: A year old; in Yearly growths.

ANNOTTO; ARNOTTO
An*not"to, Ar*not"to, n. Etym: [Perh. the native name.]

Defn: A red or yellowish-red dyeing material, prepared from the pulp
surrounding the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the
tropical regions of America. It is used for coloring cheese, butter,
etc. [Written also Anatto, Anatta, Annatto, Annotta, etc.]

ANNOUNCE
An*nounce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Announced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Announcing.] Etym: [OF. anoncier, F. annoncer, fr. L. annuntiare; ad
+ nuntiare to report, relate, nuntius messenger, bearer of news. See
Nuncio, and cf. Annunciate.]

1. To give public notice, or first notice of; to make known; to
publish; to proclaim.
Her [Q. Elizabeth's] arrival was announced through the country by a
peal of cannon from the ramparts. Gilpin.

2. To pronounce; to declare by judicial sentence.
Publish laws, announce Or life or death. Prior.

Syn.
 -- To proclaim; publish; make known; herald; declare; promulgate.
 -- To Publish, Announce, Proclaim, Promulgate. We publish what we
give openly to the world, either by oral communication or by means of
the press; as, to publish abroad the faults of our neighbors. We
announce what we declare by anticipation, or make known for the first
time; as, to announce the speedy publication of a book; to announce
the approach or arrival of a distinguished personage. We proclaim
anything to which we give the widest publicity; as, to proclaim the
news of victory. We promulgate when we proclaim more widely what has
before been known by some; as, to promulgate the gospel.

ANNOUNCEMENT
An*nounce"ment, n.

Defn: The act of announcing, or giving notice; that which announces;
proclamation; publication.

ANNOUNCER
An*noun"cer, n.

Defn: One who announces.

ANNOY
An*noy", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annoyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Annoying.]
Etym: [OE. anoien, anuien, OF. anoier, anuier, F. ennuyer, fr. OF.
anoi, anui, enui, annoyance, vexation, F. ennui. See Annoy, n.] To
disturb or irritate, especially by continued or repeated acts; to
tease; to ruffle in mind; to vex; as, I was annoyed by his remarks.
Say, what can more our tortured souls annoy Than to behold, admire,
and lose our joy Prior.

2. To molest, incommode, or harm; as, to annoy an army by impeding
its march, or by a cannonade.

Syn.
 -- To molest; vex; trouble; pester; embarrass; perplex; tease.

ANNOY
An*noy", n. Etym: [OE. anoi, anui, OF. anoi, anui, enui, fr. L. in
odio hatred (esse alicui in odio, Cic.). See Ennui, Odium, Noisome,
Noy.]

Defn: A feeling of discomfort or vexation caused by what one
dislikes; also, whatever causes such a feeling; as, to work annoy.
Worse than Tantalus' is her annoy. Shak.

ANNOYANCE
An*noy"ance, n. Etym: [OF. anoiance, anuiance.]

1. The act of annoying, or the state of being annoyed; molestation;
vexation; annoy.
A deep clay, giving much annoyance to passengers. Fuller.
For the further annoyance and terror of any besieged place, they
would throw into it dead bodies. Wilkins.

2. That which annoys.
A grain, a dust, a gnat, a wandering hair, Any annoyance in that
precious sense. Shak.

ANNOYER
An*noy"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, annoys.

ANNOYFUL
An*noy"ful, a.

Defn: Annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNOYING
An*noy"ing, a.

Defn: That annoys; molesting; vexatious.
 -- An*noy"ing*ly, adv.

ANNOYOUS
An*noy"ous, a. Etym: [OF. enuius, anoios.]

Defn: Troublesome; annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNUAL
An"nu*al, a. Etym: [OE. annuel, F. annuel, fr. L. annualis, fr. annus
year. Cf. Annals.]

1. Of or pertaining to a year; returning every year; coming or
happening once in the year; yearly.
The annual overflowing of the river [Nile]. Ray.

2. Performed or accomplished in a year; reckoned by the year; as, the
annual motion of the earth.
A thousand pound a year, annual support. Shak.

2. Lasting or continuing only one year or one growing season;
requiring to be renewed every year; as, an annual plant; annual
tickets. Bacon.

ANNUAL
An"nu*al, n.

1. A thing happening or returning yearly; esp. a literary work
published once a year.

2. Anything, especially a plant, that lasts but one year or season;
an annual plant.
Oaths . . . in some sense almost annuals; . . . and I myself can
remember about forty different sets. Swift.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A Mass for a deceased person or for some special object, said
daily for a year or on the anniversary day.

ANNUALIST
An"nu*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who writes for, or who edits, an annual. [R.]

ANNUALLY
An"nu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Yearly; year by year.

ANNUARY
An"nu*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. annuaire.]

Defn: Annual. [Obs.] -- n.

Defn: A yearbook.

ANNUELER
An"nu*el*er, n.

Defn: A priest employed in saying annuals, or anniversary Masses.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNUENT
An"nu*ent, a. Etym: [L. annuens, p. pr. of annuere; ad + nuere to
nod.]

Defn: Nodding; as, annuent muscles (used in nodding).

ANNUITANT
An*nu"i*tant, n. Etym: [See Annuity.]

Defn: One who receives, or its entitled to receive, an annuity. Lamb.

ANNUITY
An*nu"i*ty, n.; pl. Annuities. Etym: [LL. annuitas, fr. L. annus
year: cf. F. annuité.]

Defn: A sum of money, payable yearly, to continue for a given number
of years, for life, or forever; an annual allowance.

ANNUL
An*nul", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annulled; p. pr. & vb. n. Annulling.]
Etym: [F. annuler, LL. annullare, annulare, fr. L. ad to + nullus
none, nullum, neut., nothing. See Null, a.]

1. To reduce to nothing; to obliterate.
Light, the prime work of God, to me's extinct. And all her various
objects of delight Annulled. Milton.

2. To make void or of no effect; to nullify; to abolish; to do away
with; -- used appropriately of laws, decrees, edicts, decisions of
courts, or other established rules, permanent usages, and the like,
which are made void by component authority.
Do they mean to annul laws of inestimable value to our liberties
Burke.

Syn.
 -- To abolish; abrogate; repeal; cancel; reverse; rescind; revoke;
nullify; destroy. See Abolish.

ANNULAR
An"nu*lar, a. Etym: [L. annularis, fr. annulis ring: cf. F.
annulaire.]

1. Pertaining to, or having the form of, a ring; forming a ring;
ringed; ring-shaped; as, annular fibers.

2. Banded or marked with circles. Annular eclipse (Astron.), an
eclipse of the sun in which the moon at the middle of the eclipse
conceals the central part of the sun's disk, leaving a complete ring
of light around the border.

ANNULARITY
An`nu*lar"i*ty, n.

Defn: Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula. J.
Rogers.

ANNULARRY
An"nu*lar*ry, adv.

Defn: In an annular manner.

ANNULARY
An"nu*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. annularis. See Annular.]

Defn: Having the form of a ring; annular. Ray.

ANNULATA
An`nu*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl., fr. L. annulatus ringed.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of articulate animals, nearly equivalent to Annelida,
including the marine annelids, earthworms, Gephyrea, Gymnotoma,
leeches, etc. See Annelida.

ANNULATE
An"nu*late, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Annulata.

ANNULATE; ANNULATED
An"nu*late, An"nu*la`ted a. Etym: [L. annulatus.]

1. Furnished with, or composed of, rings; ringed; surrounded by rings
of color.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annulata.

ANNULATION
An`nu*la"tion, n.

Defn: A circular or ringlike formation; a ring or belt. Nicholson.

ANNULET
An"nu*let, n. Etym: [Dim. of annulus.]

1. A little ring. Tennyson.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A small, flat fillet, encircling a column, etc., used by
itself, or with other moldings. It is used, several times repeated,
under the Doric capital.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A little circle borne as a charge.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A narrow circle of some distinct color on a surface or round an
organ.

ANNULLABLE
An*nul"la*ble, a.

Defn: That may be Annulled.

ANNULLER
An*nul"ler, n.

Defn: One who annuls. [R.]

ANNULMENT
An*nul"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annulement.]

Defn: The act of annulling; abolition; invalidation.

ANNULOID
An"nu*loid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annuloida.

ANNULOIDA
An`nu*loid"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. annulus ring + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Articulata, including the annelids and allied
groups; sometimes made to include also the helminths and echinoderms.
[Written also Annuloidea.]

ANNULOSA
An"nu*lo"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Invertebrata, nearly equivalent to the
Articulata. It includes the Arthoropoda and Anarthropoda. By some
zoölogists it is applied to the former only.

ANNULOSAN
An`nu*lo"san, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Annulosa.

ANNULOSE
An"nu*lose` (, a. Etym: [L. annulus ring.]

1. Furnished with, or composed of, rings or ringlike segments;
ringed.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annulosa.

ANNULUS
An"nu*lus, n.; pl. Annuli. Etym: [L.]

1. A ring; a ringlike part or space.

2. (Geom.)
(a) A space contained between the circumferences of two circles, one
within the other.
(b) The solid formed by a circle revolving around a line which is the
plane of the circle but does not cut it.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Ring-shaped structures or markings, found in, or upon, various
animals.

ANNUMERATE
An*nu"mer*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. annumeratus, p. p. of annumerare. See
Numerate.]

Defn: To add on; to count in. [Obs.] Wollaston.

ANNUMERATION
An*nu`mer*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. annumeratio.]

Defn: Addition to a former number. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ANNUNCIABLE
An*nun"ci*a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be announced or declared; declarable. [R.]

ANNUNCIATE
An*nun"ci*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annunciated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Annunciating.] Etym: [L. annuntiare. See Announce.]

Defn: To announce.

ANNUNCIATE
An*nun"ci*ate, p. p. & a.

Defn: Foretold; preannounced. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNUNCIATION
An*nun`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. annuntiatio: cf. F. annonciation.]

1. The act of announcing; announcement; proclamation; as, the
annunciation of peace.

2. (Eccl.)
(a) The announcement of the incarnation, made by the angel Gabriel to
the Virgin Mary.
(b) The festival celebrated (March 25th) by the Church of England, of
Rome, etc., in memory of the angel's announcement, on that day; Lady
Day.

ANNUNCIATION LILY
An*nun`ci*a"tion lil"y. (Bot.)

Defn: The common white lily (Lilium candidum). So called because it
is usually introduced by painters in pictures of the Annunciation.

ANNUNCIATIVE
An*nun"ci*a*tive, a.

Defn: Pertaining to annunciation; announcing. [R.] Dr. H. More.

ANNUNCIATOR
An*nun"ci*a`tor, n. Etym: [L. annuntiator.]

1. One who announces. Specifically: An officer in the church of
Constantinople, whose business it was to inform the people of the
festivals to be celebrated.

2. An indicator (as in a hotel) which designates the room where
attendance is wanted.

ANNUNCIATORY
An*nun"ci*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, announcement; making known. [R.]

ANOA
A*noa", n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis), allied to the
buffalo, but having long nearly straight horns.

ANODE
An"ode, n. Etym: [Gr. (Elec.)

Defn: The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly the
electrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way to
the other pole; -- opposed to cathode.

ANODON
An"o*don, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having to teeth at the hinge.
[Written also Anodonta.]

ANODYNE
An"o*dyne, a. Etym: [L. anodynus, Gr. anodin.]

Defn: Serving to assuage pain; soothing.
The anodyne draught of oblivion. Burke.

Note: "The word [in a medical sense] in chiefly applied to the
different preparations of opium, belladonna, hyoscyamus, and
lettuce." Am. Cyc.

ANODYNE
An"o*dyne, n. Etym: [L. anodynon. See Anodyne, a.]

Defn: Any medicine which allays pain, as an opiate or narcotic;
anything that soothes disturbed feelings.

ANODYNOUS
An"o*dy`nous, a.

Defn: Anodyne.

ANOETIC
An`o*et"ic, a. [Gr.  unthinkable;  priv. +  perceptible, thinkable.]

1. Unthinkable. [Rare]

2.  (Psychol.) Not subject to conscious attention; having an
indefinite, relatively passive, conscious being; characteristic of
the "fringe" or "margin" of consciousness.

Presentation considered as having an existence relatively independent
of thought, may be called sentience, or anoetic consciousness.
Thought and sentience are fundamentally distinct mental functions.
G. F. Stout.

ANOIL
A*noil", v. t. Etym: [OF. enoilier.]

Defn: The anoint with oil. [Obs.] Holinshed.

ANOINT
A*noint", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anointed; p. pr. & vb. n. Anointing.]
Etym: [OF. enoint, p. p. of enoindre, fr. L. inungere; in + ungere,
unguere, to smear, anoint. See Ointment, Unguent.]

1. To smear or rub over with oil or an unctuous substance; also, to
spread over, as oil.
And fragrant oils the stiffened limbs anoint. Dryden.
He anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay. John ix. 6.

2. To apply oil to or to pour oil upon, etc., as a sacred rite,
especially for consecration.
Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his
[Aaron's] head and anoint him. Exod. xxix. 7.
Anoint Hazael to be king over Syria. 1 Kings xix. 15.
The Lord's Anointed, Christ or the Messiah; also, a Jewish or other
king by "divine right." 1 Sam. xxvi. 9.

ANOINT
A*noint", p. p.

Defn: Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANOINTER
A*noint"er, n.

Defn: One who anoints.

ANOINTMENT
A*noint"ment, n.

Defn: The act of anointing, or state of being anointed; also, an
ointment. Milton.

ANOLIS
A*no"lis, n. Etym: [In the Antilles, anoli, anoalli, a lizard.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidæ. They
take the place in the New World of the chameleons in the Old, and in
America are often called chameleons.

ANOMAL
A*nom"al, n.

Defn: Anything anomalous. [R.]

ANOMALIPED; ANOMALIPEDE
A*nom"a*li*ped(#), A*nom"a*li*pede, a. Etym: [L. anomalus irregular +
pes, pedis, foot.]

Defn: Having anomalous feet.

ANOMALIPED
A*nom"a*li*ped, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of perching birds, having the middle toe more or
less united to the outer and inner ones.

ANOMALISM
A*nom"a*lism, n.

Defn: An anomaly; a deviation from rule. Hooker.

ANOMALISTIC; ANOMALISTICAL
A*nom`a*lis"tic, A*nom`a*lis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. anomalistique.]

1. Irregular; departing from common or established rules.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: Pertaining to the anomaly, or angular distance of a planet from
its perihelion. Anomalistic month. See under Month.
 -- Anomalistic revolution, the period in which a planet or satellite
goes through the complete cycles of its changes of anomaly, or from
any point in its elliptic orbit to the same again.
 -- Anomalistic, or Periodical year. See under Year.

ANOMALISTICALLY
A*nom`a*lis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: With irregularity.

ANOMALOFLOROUS
A*nom`a*lo*flo"rous, a. Etym: [L. anomalus irregular + flos, floris,
flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having anomalous flowers.

ANOMALOUS
A*nom"a*lous, a Etym: [L. anomalus, Gr. Same, and cf. Abnormal.]

Defn: Deviating from a general rule, method, or analogy; abnormal;
irregular; as, an anomalous proceeding.

ANOMALOUSLY
A*nom"a*lous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anomalous manner.

ANOMALOUSNESS
A*nom"a*lous*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being anomalous.

ANOMALY
A*nom"a*ly, n.; pl. Anomalies. Etym: [L. anomalia, Gr. Anomalous.]

1. Deviation from the common rule; an irregularity; anything
anomalous.
We are enabled to unite into a consistent whole the various anomalies
and contending principles that are found in the minds and affairs of
men. Burke.
As Professor Owen has remarked, there is no greater anomaly in nature
than a bird that can not fly. Darwin.

2. (Astron.)
(a) The angular distance of a planet from its perihelion, as seen
from the sun. This is the true anomaly. The eccentric anomaly is a
corresponding angle at the center of the elliptic orbit of the
planet. The mean anomaly is what the anomaly would be if the planet's
angular motion were uniform.
(b) The angle measuring apparent irregularities in the motion of a
planet.

3. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Any deviation from the essential characteristics of a specific
type.

ANOMIA
A*no"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called from
their unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated for
attachment.

ANOMOPHYLLOUS
An`o*moph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having leaves irregularly placed.

ANOMURA; ANOMOURA
An`o*mu"ra, An`o*mou"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of decapod Crustacea, of which the hermit crab in an
example.

ANOMURAL; ANOMURAN
An`o*mu"ral, An`o*mu"ran, a.

Defn: Irregular in the character of the tail or abdomen; as, the
anomural crustaceans. [Written also anomoural, anomouran.]

ANOMURAN
An`o*mu"ran, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Anomura.

ANOMY
An"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. Anomia.]

Defn: Disregard or violation of law. [R.] Glanvill.

ANON
A*non", adv. Etym: [OE. anoon, anon, anan, lit., in one (moment), fr.
AS. on in + an one. See On and One.]

1. Straightway; at once. [Obs.]
The same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it.
Matt. xiii. 20.

2. Soon; in a little while.
As it shall better appear anon. Stow.

3. At another time; then; again.
Sometimes he trots, . . . anon he rears upright. Shak.
Anon right, at once; right off. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- Ever and anon, now and then; frequently; often.
A pouncet box, which ever and anon He gave his nose. Shak.

ANONA
A*no"na, n. Etym: [NL. Cf. Ananas.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural order
Anonaceæ, including the soursop.

ANONACEOUS
An`o*na"ceous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the order of plants including the soursop,
custard apple, etc.

ANONYM
An"o*nym, n. Etym: [F. anonyme. See Anonymous.]

1. One who is anonymous; also sometimes used for "pseudonym."

2. A notion which has no name, or which can not be expressed by a
single English word. [R.] J. R. Seeley.

ANONYMITY
An`o*nym"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also,
that which anonymous. [R.]
He rigorously insisted upon the rights of anonymity. Carlyle.

ANONYMOUS
A*non"y*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. Name.]

Defn: Nameless; of unknown name; also, of unknown /or unavowed
authorship; as, an anonymous benefactor; an anonymous pamphlet or
letter.

ANONYMOUSLY
A*non"y*mous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anonymous manner; without a name. Swift.

ANONYMOUSNESS
A*non"y*mous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being anonymous. Coleridge.

ANOPHELES
A*noph"e*les (a*nof"e*lez), n. [NL., fr. Gr. 'anwfelh`s useless,
hurtful.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of mosquitoes which are secondary hosts of the malaria
parasites, and whose bite is the usual, if not the only, means of
infecting human beings with malaria. Several species are found in the
United States. They may be distinguished from the ordinary mosquitoes
of the genus Culex by the long slender palpi, nearly equaling the
beak in length, while those of the female Culex are very short. They
also assume different positions when resting, Culex usually holding
the body parallel to the surface on which it rests and keeping the
head and beak bent at an angle, while Anopheles holds the body at an
angle with the surface and the head and beak in line with it. Unless
they become themselves infected by previously biting a subject
affected with malaria, the insects cannot transmit the disease.

ANOPHYTE
An"o*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A moss or mosslike plant which cellular stems, having usually
an upward growth and distinct leaves.

ANOPLA
An"o*pla, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina.

ANOPLOTHERE; ANOPLOTHERIUM
An*op"lo*there, An`o*plo*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of extinct quadrupeds of the order Ungulata, whose were
first found in the gypsum quarries near Paris; characterized by the
shortness and feebleness of their canine teeth (whence the name).

ANOPLURA
An`o*plu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of insects which includes the lice.

ANOPSIA; ANOPSY
A*nop"si*a, An"op`sy, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Want or defect of sight; blindness.

ANOREXIA; ANOREXY
An`o*rex"i*a, An"o*rex`y n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Want of appetite, without a loathing of food. Coxe.

ANORMAL
A*nor"mal, a. Etym: [F. anormal. See Abnormal, Normal.]

Defn: Not according to rule; abnormal. [Obs.]

ANORN
A*norn, v. t. Etym: [OF. aörner, aöurner, fr. L. adornare to adorn.
The form a-ourne was corrupted into anourne.]

Defn: To adorn. [Obs.] Bp. Watson.

ANORTHIC
A*nor"thic, a. Etym: [See Anorthite.] (Min.)

Defn: Having unequal oblique axes; as, anorthic crystals.

ANORTHITE
A*nor"thite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A mineral of the feldspar family, commonly occurring in small
glassy crystals, also a constituent of some igneous rocks. It is a
lime feldspar. See Feldspar.

ANORTHOCLASE
A*nor"tho*clase, n. [Gr.  priv. + orthoclase.] (Min.)

Defn: A feldspar closely related to orthoclase, but triclinic. It is
chiefly a silicate of sodium, potassium, and aluminium. Sp. gr., 2.57
-- 2.60.

ANORTHOPIA
An`or*tho"pi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. + ortho- + Gr. , , the eye.]
(Med.)

Defn: Distorted vision, in which straight lines appear bent.

ANORTHOSCOPE
A*nor"tho*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: An optical toy for producing amusing figures or pictures by
means of two revolving disks, on one of which distorted figures are
painted.

ANORTHOSITE
A*nor"tho*site, n. [F. anorthose triclinic feldspar (fr. Gr.  priv. +
straight) + -ite.] (Petrol.)

Defn: A granular igneous rock composed almost exclusively of a soda-
lime feldspar, usually labradorite.

ANOSMIA
A*nos"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Loss of the sense of smell.

ANOTHER
An*oth"er, pron. & a. Etym: [An a, one + other.]

1. One more, in addition to a former number; a second or additional
one, similar in likeness or in effect.
Another yet! -- a seventh! I 'll see no more. Shak.
Would serve to scale another Hero's tower. Shak.

2. Not the same; different.
He winks, and turns his lips another way. Shak.

3. Any or some; any different person, indefinitely; any one else;
some one else.
Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth. Prov. xxvii. 2.
While I am coming, another steppeth down before me. John v. 7.

Note: As a pronoun another may have a possessive another's, pl.
others, poss. pl. other'. It is much used in opposition to one; as,
one went one way, another another. It is also used with one, in a
reciprocal sense; as, "love one another," that is, let each love the
other or others. "These two imparadised in one another's arms."
Milton.

ANOTHER-GAINES
An*oth"er-gaines`, a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. another-gates.]

Defn: Of another kind. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

ANOTHER-GATES
An*oth"er-gates`, a. Etym: [Another + gate, or gait, way. Cf.
Algates.]

Defn: Of another sort. [Obs.] "Another-gates adventure." Hudibras.

ANOTHER-GUESS
An*oth"er-guess, a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. another-gates.]

Defn: Of another sort. [Archaic]
It used to go in another-guess manner. Arbuthnot.

ANOTTA
A*not"ta, n.

Defn: See Annotto.

ANOURA
An*ou"ra, n.

Defn: See Anura.

ANOUROUS
An*ou"rous, a.

Defn: See Anurous.

ANOXAEMIA; ANOXEMIA
An`ox*æ"mi*a, An`ox*e"mi*a, n. [NL.; Gr.  priv. + oxygen + Gr.
blood.] (Med.)

Defn: An abnormal condition due to deficient aëration of the blood,
as in balloon sickness, mountain sickness. -- An`ox*æ"mic, *e"mic
(#), a.

ANSA
An"sa, n.; pl. Ansæ. Etym: [L., a handle.] (Astron.)

Defn: A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring.

ANSATED
An"sa*ted, a. Etym: [L. ansatus, fr. ansa a handle.]

Defn: Having a handle. Johnson.

ANSERATED
An"ser*a`ted, a. (Her.)

Defn: Having the extremities terminate in the heads of eagles, lions,
etc.; as, an anserated cross.

ANSERES
An"se*res, n. pl. Etym: [L., geese.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Linnæan order of aquatic birds swimming by means of webbed
feet, as the duck, or of lobed feet, as the grebe. In this order were
included the geese, ducks, auks, divers, gulls, petrels, etc.

ANSERIFORMES
An`se*ri*for"mes, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of birds including the geese, ducks, and closely
allied forms.

ANSERINE
An"ser*ine, a Etym: [L. anserinus, fr. anser a goose.]

1. Pertaining to, or resembling, a goose, or the skin of a goose.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Anseres.

ANSEROUS
An"ser*ous, a. Etym: [L. anser a goose.]

Defn: Resembling a goose; silly; simple. Sydney Smith.

ANSWER
An"swer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Answered; p. pr. & vb. n. Answering.]
Etym: [OE. andswerien, AS. andswerian, andswarian, to answer, fr.
andswaru, n., answer. See Answer, n.]

1. To speak in defense against; to reply to in defense; as, to answer
a charge; to answer an accusation.

2. To speak or write in return to, as in return to a call or
question, or to a speech, declaration, argument, or the like; to
reply to (a question, remark, etc.); to respond to.
She answers him as if she knew his mind. Shak.
So spake the apostate angel, though in pain: . . . And him thus
answered soon his bold compeer. Milton.

3. To respond to satisfactorily; to meet successfully by way of
explanation, argument, or justification, and the like; to refute.
No man was able to answer him a word. Matt. xxii. 46.
These shifts refuted, answer thine appellant. Milton.
The reasoning was not and could not be answered. Macaulay.

4. To be or act in return or response to. Hence:
(a) To be or act in compliance with, in fulfillment or satisfaction
of, as an order, obligation, demand; as, he answered my claim upon
him; the servant answered the bell.
This proud king . . . studies day and night To answer all the debts
he owes unto you. Shak.

(b) To render account to or for.
I will . . . send him to answer thee. Shak.

(c) To atone; to be punished for.
And grievously hath Cæzar answered it. Shak.

(d) To be opposite to; to face.
The windows answering each other, we could just discern the glowing
horizon them. Gilpin.

(e) To be or act an equivalent to, or as adequate or sufficient for;
to serve for; to repay. [R.]
Money answereth all things. Eccles. x. 19.

(f) To be or act in accommodation, conformity, relation, or
proportion to; to correspond to; to suit.
Weapons must needs be dangerous things, if they answered the bulk of
so prodigious a person. Swift.

ANSWER
An"swer, v. i.

1. To speak or write by way of return (originally, to a charge), or
in reply; to make response.
There was no voice, nor any that answered. 1 Kings xviii. 26.

2. To make a satisfactory response or return. Hence: To render
account, or to be responsible; to be accountable; to make amends; as,
the man must answer to his employer for the money intrusted to his
care.
Let his neck answer for it, if there is any martial law. Shak.

3. To be or act in return. Hence:
(a) To be or act by way of compliance, fulfillment, reciprocation, or
satisfaction; to serve the purpose; as, gypsum answers as a manure on
some soils.
Do the strings answer to thy noble hand Dryden.

(b) To be opposite, or to act in opposition.
(c) To be or act as an equivalent, or as adequate or sufficient; as,
a very few will answer.
(d) To be or act in conformity, or by way of accommodation,
correspondence, relation, or proportion; to conform; to correspond;
to suit; -- usually with to.
That the time may have all shadow and silence in it, and the place
answer to convenience. Shak.
If this but answer to my just belief, I 'll remember you. Shak.
As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man. Pro

ANSWER
An"swer, n. Etym: [OE. andsware, AS. andswaru; and against + swerian
to swear. Anti-, and Swear, and cf. 1st un-.]

1. A reply to a change; a defense.
At my first answer no man stood with me. 2 Tim. iv. 16.

2. Something said or written in reply to a question, a call, an
argument, an address, or the like; a reply.
A soft answer turneth away wrath. Prov. xv. 1.
I called him, but he gave me no answer. Cant. v. 6.

3. Something done in return for, or in consequence of, something
else; a responsive action.
Great the slaughter is Here made by the Roman; great the answer be
Britons must take. Shak.

4. A solution, the result of a mathematical operation; as, the answer
to a problem.

5. (Law)

Defn: A counter-statement of facts in a course of pleadings; a
confutation of what the other party has alleged; a responsive
declaration by a witness in reply to a question. In Equity, it is the
usual form of defense to the complainant's charges in his bill.
Bouvier.

Syn.
 -- Reply; rejoinder; response. See Reply.

ANSWERABLE
An"swer*a*ble, a.

1. Obliged to answer; liable to be called to account; liable to pay,
indemnify, or make good; accountable; amenable; responsible; as, an
agent is answerable to his principal; to be answerable for a debt, or
for damages.
Will any man argue that . . . he can not be justly punished, but is
answerable only to God Swift.

2. Capable of being answered or refuted; admitting a satisfactory
answer.
The argument, though subtle, is yet answerable. Johnson.

3. Correspondent; conformable; hence, comparable.
What wit and policy of man is answerable to their discreet and
orderly course Holland.
This revelation . . . was answerable to that of the apostle to the
Thessalonians. Milton.

4. Proportionate; commensurate; suitable; as, an achievement
answerable to the preparation for it.

5. Equal; equivalent; adequate. [Archaic]
Had the valor of his soldiers been answerable, he had reached that
year, as was thought, the utmost bounds of Britain. Milton.

ANSWERABLENESS
An"swer*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being answerable, liable, responsible, or
correspondent.

ANSWERABLY
An"swer*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an answerable manner; in due proportion or correspondence;
suitably.

ANSWERER
An"swer*er, n.

Defn: One who answers.

ANSWERLESS
An"swer*less, a.

Defn: Having no answer, or impossible to be answered. Byron.

AN 'T
An 't.

Defn: An it, that is, and it or if it. See An, conj. [Obs.]

AN'T
An't.

Defn: A contraction for are and am not; also used for is not; -- now
usually written ain't. [Colloq. & illiterate speech.]

ANT-
Ant-.

Defn: See Anti-, prefix.

-ANT
-ant. Etym: [F. -ant, fr. L. -antem or -entem, the pr. p. ending;
also sometimes directly from L. -antem.]

Defn: A suffix sometimes marking the agent for action; as, merchant,
covenant, servant, pleasant, etc. Cf. -ent.

ANT
Ant, n. Etym: [OE. ante, amete, emete, AS. æmete akin to G. ameise.
Cf. Emmet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hymenopterous insect of the Linnæan genus Formica, which is
now made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.

Note: Among ants, as among bees, there are neuter or working ants,
besides the males and females; the former are without wings. Ants
live together in swarms, usually raising hillocks of earth, variously
chambered within, where they maintain a perfect system of order,
store their provisions, and nurture their young. There are many
species, with diverse habits, as agricultural ants, carpenter ants,
honey ants, foraging ants, amazon ants, etc. The white ants or
Termites belong to the Neuroptera. Ant bird (Zoöl.), one of a very
extensive group of South American birds (Formicariidæ), which live on
ants. The family includes many species, some of which are called ant
shrikes, ant thrushes, and ant wrens.
 -- Ant rice (Bot.), a species of grass (Aristida oligantha)
cultivated by the agricultural ants of Texas for the sake of its
seed.

ANTA
An"ta, n.; pl. Antæ. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)

Defn: A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its
termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and
base.

Note: Porches, when columns stand between two antæ, are called in
Latin in antis.

ANTACID
Ant*ac"id, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + acid.] (Med.)

Defn: A remedy for acidity of the stomach, as an alkali or absorbent.
 -- a.

Defn: Counteractive of acidity.

ANTACRID
Ant*ac"rid, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + acrid.]

Defn: Corrective of acrimony of the humors.

ANTAEAN
An*tæ"an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to Antæus, a giant athlete slain by Hercules.

ANTAGONISM
An*tag"o*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. antagonisme. See Agony.]

Defn: Opposition of action; counteraction or contrariety of things or
principles.

Note: We speak of antagonism between two things, to or against a
thing, and sometimes with a thing.

ANTAGONIST
An*tag"o*nist, n. Etym: [L. antagonista, Gr. antagoniste. See
Antagonism.]

1. One who contends with another, especially in combat; an adversary;
an opponent.
Antagonist of Heaven's Almigthy King. Milton.
Our antagonists in these controversies. Hooker.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which acts in opposition to another; as a flexor,
which bends a part, is the antagonist of an extensor, which extends
it.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine which opposes the action of another medicine or of a
poison when absorbed into the blood or tissues.

Syn.
 -- Adversary; enemy; opponent; toe; competitor. See Adversary.

ANTAGONIST
An*tag"o*nist, a.

Defn: Antagonistic; opposing; counteracting; as, antagonist schools
of philosophy.

ANTAGONISTIC; ANTAGONISTICAL
An*tag`o*nis"tic, An*tag`o*nis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Opposing in combat, combating; contending or acting against;
as, antagonistic forces.
 -- An*tag`o*nis"tic*al*ly, adv.
They were distinct, adverse, even antagonistic. Milman.

ANTAGONIZE
An*tag"o*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Antagonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Antagonozing.] Etym: [Gr. Antagonism.]

Defn: To contend with; to oppose actively; to counteract.

ANTAGONIZE
An*tag"o*nize, v. i.

Defn: To act in opposition.

ANTAGONY
An*tag"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. antagonie. See Antagonism.]

Defn: Contest; opposition; antagonism. [Obs.]
Antagony that is between Christ and Belial. Milton.

ANTALGIC
An*tal"gic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. antalgique.] (Med.)

Defn: Alleviating pain.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine to alleviate pain; an anodyne. [R.]

ANTALKALI; ANTALKALINE
Ant*al"ka*li, Ant*al"ka*line, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + alkali.]

Defn: Anything that neutralizes, or that counteracts an alkaline
tendency in the system. Hoopplw.

ANTALKALINE
Ant*al"ka*line, a.

Defn: Of power to counteract alkalies.

ANTAMBULACRAL
Ant*am`bu*la"cral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Away from the ambulacral region.

ANTANACLASIS
Ant`an*a*cla"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. Anaclastic.] (Rhet.)
(a) A figure which consists in repeating the same word in a different
sense; as, Learn some craft when young, that when old you may live
without craft.
(b) A repetition of words beginning a sentence, after a long
parenthesis; as, Shall that heart (which not only feels them, but
which has all motions of life placed in them), shall that heart, etc.

ANTANAGOGE
Ant`an*a*go"ge, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + anagoge.] (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure which consists in answering the charge of an
adversary, by a counter charge.

ANTAPHRODISIAC
Ant`aph*ro*dis"i*ac, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + aphrodisiac.] (Med.)

Defn: Capable of blunting the venereal appetite.
 -- n.

Defn: Anything that quells the venereal appetite.

ANTAPHRODITIC
Ant`aph*ro*dit"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. antaphroditique.]
(Med.)

1. Antaphrodisiac.

2. Antisyphilitic. [R.]

ANTAPHRODITIC
Ant`aph*ro*dit"ic, n.

Defn: An antaphroditic medicine.

ANTAPOPLECTIC
Ant`ap*o*plec"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + apoplectic.] (Med.)

Defn: Good against apoplexy.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine used against apoplexy.

ANTARCHISM
Ant*ar"chism, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: Opposition to government in general. [R.]

ANTARCHIST
Ant*ar"chist, n.

Defn: One who opposes all government. [R.]

ANTARCHISTIC; ANTARCHISTICAL
Ant`ar*chis"tic, Ant`ar*chis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Opposed to all human government. [R.]

ANTARCTIC
Ant*arc"tic, a. Etym: [OE. antartik, OF. antartique, F. antarctique,
L. antarcticus, fr. Gr. Arctic.]

Defn: Opposite to the northern or arctic pole; relating to the
southern pole or to the region near it, and applied especially to a
circle, distant from the pole 23º 28min. Thus we say the antarctic
pole, circle, ocean, region, current, etc.

ANTARES
An*ta"res, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The principal star in Scorpio: -- called also the Scorpion's
Heart.

ANTARTHRITIC
Ant`ar*thrit"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + arthritic.] (Med.)
Counteracting or alleviating gout.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy against gout.

ANTASTHMATIC
Ant`asth*mat"ic ( or ; see Asthma; 277), a. Etym: [Pref. anti- +
asthmatic.] (Med.)

Defn: Opposing, or fitted to relieve, asthma.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for asthma.

ANT-BEAR
Ant"-bear`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edentate animal of tropical America (the Tamanoir), living
on ants. It belongs to the genus Myrmecophaga.

ANT BIRD
Ant" bird, (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Ant bird, under Ant, n.

ANT-CATTLE
Ant"-cat`tle, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Various kinds of plant lice or aphids tended by ants for the
sake of the honeydew which they secrete. See Aphips.

ANT COW
Ant cow. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any aphid from which ants obtain honeydew.

ANTE-
An"te-.

Defn: A Latin preposition and prefix; akin to Gr. anti, Goth. and-,
anda- (only in comp.), AS. and-, ond-, (only in comp.: cf. Answer,
Along), G. ant-, ent- (in comp.). The Latin ante is generally used in
the sense of before, in regard to position, order, or time, and the
Gr. opposite, or in the place of.

ANTE
An"te, n. (Poker Playing)

Defn: Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante)
the game begins.

ANTE
An"te, v. t. & i.

Defn: To put up (an ante).

ANTEACT
An"te*act`, n.

Defn: A preceding act.

ANTEAL
An"te*al, a. Etym: [antea, ante, before. Cf. Ancient.]

Defn: Being before, or in front. [R.] J. Fleming.

ANT-EATER
Ant"-eat`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of edentates and monotremes that feed
upon ants. See Ant-bear, Pangolin, Aard-vark, and Echidna.

ANTECEDANEOUS
An`te*ce*da"ne*ous, a. Etym: [See Antecede.]

Defn: Antecedent; preceding in time. "Capable of antecedaneous
proof." Barrow.

ANTECEDE
An`te*cede", v. t. & i. Etym: [L. antecedere; ante + cedere to go.
See Cede.]

Defn: To go before in time or place; to precede; to surpass. Sir M.
Hale.

ANTECEDENCE
An`te*ced"ence, n.

1. The act or state of going before in time; precedence. H. Spenser.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: An apparent motion of a planet toward the west; retrogradation.

ANTECEDENCY
An`te*ced"en*cy, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being antecedent; priority.
Fothherby.

ANTECEDENT
An`te*ced"ent, a. Etym: [L. antecedens, -entis, p. pr. of antecedere:
cf. F. antécédent.]

1. Going before in time; prior; anterior; preceding; as, an event
antecedent to the Deluge; an antecedent cause.

2. Presumptive; as, an antecedent improbability.

Syn.
 -- Prior; previous; foregoing.

ANTECEDENT
An`te*ced"ent, n. Etym: [Cf. F. antécédent.]

1. That which goes before in time; that which precedes. South.
The Homeric mythology, as well as the Homeric language, has surely
its antecedents. Max Miller.

2. One who precedes or goes in front. [Obs.]
My antecedent, or my gentleman usher. Massinger.

3. pl.

Defn: The earlier events of one's life; previous principles, conduct,
course, history. J. H. Newman.
If the troops . . . prove worthy of their antecedents, the victory is
surely ours. Gen. G. McClellan.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: The noun to which a relative refers; as, in the sentence
"Solomon was the prince who built the temple," prince is the
antecedent of who.

5. (Logic)
(a) The first or conditional part of a hypothetical proposition; as,
If the earth is fixed, the sun must move.
(b) The first of the two propositions which constitute an enthymeme
or contracted syllogism; as, Every man is mortal; therefore the king
must die.

6. (Math.)

Defn: The first of the two terms of a ratio; the first or third of
the four terms of a proportion. In the ratio a:b, a is the
antecedent, and b the consequent.

ANTECEDENTLY
An`te*ced"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: Previously; before in time; at a time preceding; as,
antecedently to conversion. Barrow.

ANTECESSOR
An`te*ces"sor, n. Etym: [L., fr. antecedere, antecessum. See
Antecede, Ancestor.]

1. One who goes before; a predecessor.
The successor seldom prosecuting his antecessor's devices. Sir E.
Sandys.

2. An ancestor; a progenitor. [Obs.]

ANTECHAMBER
An"te*cham`ber, n. Etym: [Cf. F. antichambre.]

1. A chamber or apartment before the chief apartment and leading into
it, in which persons wait for audience; an outer chamber. See Lobby.

2. A space viewed as the outer chamber or the entrance to an interior
part.
The mouth, the antechamber to the digestive canal. Todd & Bowman.

ANTECHAPEL
An"te*chap`el, n.

Defn: The outer part of the west end of a collegiate or other chapel.
Shipley.

ANTECHOIR
An"te*choir`, n. (Arch.)
 (a) A space inclosed or reserved at the entrance to the choir, for
the clergy and choristers.
 (b) Where a choir is divided, as in some Spanish churches, that
division of it which is the farther from the sanctuary.

ANTECIANS
An*te"cians, n. pl.

Defn: See Ant.

ANTECOMMUNION
An`te*com*mun"ion, n.

Defn: A name given to that part of the Anglican liturgy for the
communion, which precedes the consecration of the elements.

ANTECURSOR
An`te*cur"sor, n. Etym: [L., fr. antecurrere to run before; ante +
currere to run.]

Defn: A forerunner; a precursor. [Obs.]

ANTEDATE
An"te*date`, n.

1. Prior date; a date antecedent to another which is the actual date.

2. Anticipation. [Obs.] Donne.

ANTEDATE
An"te*date`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Antedated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Antedating.]

1. To date before the true time; to assign to an earlier date; thus,
to antedate a deed or a bond is to give it a date anterior to the
true time of its execution.

2. To precede in time.

3. To anticipate; to make before the true time.
And antedate the bliss above. Pope.
Who rather rose the day to antedate. Wordsworth.

ANTEDILUVIAL
An`te*di*lu"vi*al, a. Etym: [Pref. ante- + diluvial.]

Defn: Before the flood, or Deluge, in Noah's time.

ANTEDILUVIAN
An`te*di*lu"vi*an, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the period before the Deluge in Noah's time;
hence, antiquated; as, an antediluvian vehicle.
 -- n.

Defn: One who lived before the Deluge.

ANTEFACT
An"te*fact`, n.

Defn: Something done before another act. [Obs.]

ANTEFIX
An"te*fix`, n.; pl. E. Antefixes; L. Antefixa. Etym: [L. ante + fixus
fixed.] (Arch.)
(a) An ornament fixed upon a frieze.
(b) An ornament at the eaves, concealing the ends of the joint tiles
of the roof.
(c) An ornament of the cymatium of a classic cornice, sometimes
pierced for the escape of water.

ANTEFLEXION
An`te*flex"ion, n. (Med.)

Defn: A displacement forward of an organ, esp. the uterus, in such
manner that its axis is bent upon itself. T. G. Thomas.

ANT EGG
Ant" egg`.

Defn: One of the small white egg-shaped pupæ or cocoons of the ant,
often seen in or about ant-hills, and popularly supposed to be eggs.

ANTELOPE
An"te*lope, n. Etym: [OF. antelop, F. antilope, fro Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of ruminant quadrupeds, intermediate between the
deer and the goat. The horns are usually annulated, or ringed. There
are many species in Africa and Asia.
The antelope and wolf both fierce and fell. Spenser.

Note: The common or bezoar antelope of India is Antilope bezoartica.
The chamois of the Alps, the gazelle, the addax, and the eland are
other species. See Gazelle. The pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra
Americana) is found in the Rocky Mountains. See Pronghorn.

ANTELUCAN
An`te*lu"can, a. Etym: [L. antelucanus; ante + lux light.]

Defn: Held or being before light; -- a word applied to assemblies of
Christians, in ancient times of persecution, held before light in the
morning. "Antelucan worship." De Quincey.

ANTEMERIDIAN
An`te*me*rid"i*an, a. Etym: [L. antemeridianus; ante + meridianus
belonging to midday or noon. See Meridian.]

Defn: Being before noon; in or pertaining to the forenoon. (Abbrev.
a. m.)

ANTEMETIC
Ant`e*met"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + emetic.] (Med.)

Defn: Tending to check vomiting.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy to check or allay vomiting.

ANTE MORTEM
An`te mor"tem. [L.]

Defn: Before death; -- generally used adjectivelly; as, an ante-
mortem statement; ante-mortem examination.

 The ante-mortem statement, or dying declaration made in view of
death, by one injured, as to the cause and manner of the injury, is
often receivable in evidence against one charged with causing the
death.

ANTEMOSAIC
An`te*mo*sa"ic, a.

Defn: Being before the time of Moses.

ANTEMUNDANE
An`te*mun"dane, a.

Defn: Being or occurring before the creation of the world. Young.

ANTEMURAL
An`te*mu"ral, n. Etym: [L. antemurale: ante + murus wall. See Mural.]

Defn: An outwork of a strong, high wall, with turrets, in front
gateway (as of an old castle), for defending the entrance.

ANTENATAL
An`te*na"tal, a.

Defn: Before birth. Shelley.

ANTENICENE
An`te*ni"cene, a. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Of or in the Christian church or era, anterior to the first
council of Nice, held a. d. 325; as, antenicene faith.

ANTENNA
An*ten"na, n.; pl. Antennæ. Etym: [L. antenna sail-yard; NL., a
feeler, horn of an insect.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A movable, articulated organ of sensation, attached to the
heads of insects and Crustacea. There are two in the former, and
usually four in the latter. They are used as organs of touch, and in
some species of Crustacea the cavity of the ear is situated near the
basal joint. In insects, they are popularly called horns, and also
feelers. The term in also applied to similar organs on the heads of
other arthropods and of annelids.

ANTENNAL
An*ten"nal, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the antennæ. Owen.

ANTENNIFEROUS
An`ten*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Antenna + -ferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Bearing or having antennæ.

ANTENNIFORM
An*ten"ni*form, a. Etym: [Antenna + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like antennæ.

ANTENNULE
An*ten"nule, n. Etym: [Dim. of antenna.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small antenna; -- applied to the smaller pair of antennæ or
feelers of Crustacea.

ANTENUMBER
An`te*num"ber, n.

Defn: A number that precedes another. [R.] Bacon.

ANTENUPTIAL
An`te*nup"tial, a.

Defn: Preceding marriage; as, an antenuptial agreement. Kent.

ANTEORBITAL
An`te*or"bit*al, a. & n. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Antorbital.

ANTEPASCHAL
An`te*pas"chal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the time before the Passover, or before Easter.

ANTEPAST
An"te*past, n. Etym: [Pref. ante- + L. pastus pasture, food. Cf.
Repast.]

Defn: A foretaste.
Antepasts of joy and comforts. Jer. Taylor.

ANTEPENDIUM
An`te*pen"di*um, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. ante + pendere to hang.]
(Eccl.)

Defn: The hangings or screen in front of the altar; an altar cloth;
the frontal. Smollett.

ANTEPENULT; ANTEPENULTIMA
An`te*pe"nult, An`te*pe*nult"i*ma, n. Etym: [L. antepaenultima (sc.
syllaba) antepenultimate; ante before + paenultimus the last but one;
paene almost + ultimus last.] (Pros.)

Defn: The last syllable of a word except two, as -syl in
monosyllable.

ANTEPENULTIMATE
An`te*pe*nult"i*mate, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the last syllable but two.
 -- n.

Defn: The antepenult.

ANTEPHIALTIC
Ant`eph*i*al"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Good against nightmare.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy nightmare. Dunglison.

ANTEPILEPTIC
Ant`ep*i*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + epileptic.] (Med.)

Defn: Good against epilepsy.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for epilepsy.

ANTEPONE
An"te*pone, v. t. Etym: [L. anteponere.]

Defn: To put before; to prefer. [Obs.] Bailey.

ANTEPORT
An"te*port, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. anteporta.]

Defn: An outer port, gate, or door.

ANTEPORTICO
An`te*por"ti*co, n.

Defn: An outer porch or vestibule.

ANTEPOSITION
An`te*po*si"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. antepositio. See Position.]
(Gram.)

Defn: The placing of a before another, which, by ordinary rules,
ought to follow it.

ANTEPRANDIAL
An`te*pran"di*al, a.

Defn: Preceding dinner.

ANTEPREDICAMENT
An`te*pre*dic"a*ment, n. (Logic)

Defn: A prerequisite to a clear understanding of the predicaments and
categories, such as definitions of common terms. Chambers.

ANTERIOR
An*te"ri*or, a. Etym: [L. anterior, comp. of ante before.]

1. Before in time; antecedent.
Antigonus, who was anterior to Polybius. Sir G. C. Lewis.

2. Before, or toward the front, in place; as, the anterior part of
the mouth; -- opposed to posterior.

Note: In comparative anatomy, anterior often signifies at or toward
the head, cephalic; and in human anatomy it is often used for
ventral.

Syn.
 -- Antecedent; previous; precedent; preceding; former; foregoing.

ANTERIORITY
An*te`ri*or"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. anterioritas.]

Defn: The state of being anterior or preceding in time or in
situation; priority. Pope.

ANTERIORLY
An*te"ri*or*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anterior manner; before.

ANTERO-
An"te*ro-.

Defn: A combining form meaning anterior, front; as, antero-posterior,
front and back; antero-lateral, front side, anterior and at the side.

ANTEROOM
An"te*room, n.

Defn: A room before, or forming an entrance to, another; a waiting
room.

ANTES; ANTAE
An"tes, n. pl. Antæ.

Defn: See Anta.

ANTESTATURE
An`te*stat"ure, n. (Fort.)

Defn: A small intrenchment or work of palisades, or of sacks of
earth.

ANTESTOMACH
An"te*stom`ach, n.

Defn: A cavity which leads into the stomach, as in birds. Ray.

ANTETEMPLE
An"te*tem`ple, n.

Defn: The portico, or narthex in an ancient temple or church.

ANTEVERSION
An`te*ver"sion, n. Etym: [Pref. ante- + L. vertere, versum, to turn.]
(Med.)

Defn: A displacement of an organ, esp. of the uterus, in such manner
that its whole axis is directed further forward than usual.

ANTEVERT
An`te*vert", v. t. Etym: [L. antevertere; ante + vertere to turn.]

1. To prevent. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

2. (Med.)

Defn: To displace by anteversion.

ANTHELION
Ant*hel"ion, n.; pl. Anthelia. Etym: [Pref. anti + Gr. (Meteor.)

Defn: A halo opposite the sun, consisting of a colored ring or rings
around the shadow of the spectator's own head, as projected on a
cloud or on an opposite fog bank.

ANTHELIX
Ant"he*lix, n. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Antihelix.

ANTHELMINTIC
An"thel*min"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Good against intestinal worms.
 -- An anthelmintic remedy. [Written also anthelminthic.]

ANTHEM
An"them, n. Etym: [OE. antym, antefne, AS. antefen, fr. LL.
antiphona, fr. Gr. anthaine, anteine, antieune, F. antienne. See
Antiphon.]

1. Formerly, a hymn sung in alternate parts, in present usage, a
selection from the Psalms, or other parts of the Scriptures or the
liturgy, set to sacred music.

2. A song or hymn of praise. Milton.

ANTHEM
An"them, v. t.

Defn: To celebrate with anthems. [Poet.]
Sweet birds antheming the morn. Keats.

ANTHEMION
An*the"mi*on, Etym: [ fr. Gr.

Defn: A floral ornament. See Palmette.

ANTHEMIS
An"the*mis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Chamomile; a genus of composite, herbaceous plants.

ANTHEMWISE
An"them*wise`, adv.

Defn: Alternately. [Obs.] Bacon.

ANTHER
An"ther, n. Etym: [F. anthère, L. anthera a medicine composed of
flowers, fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizing
dust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of the
ovary.
 -- An"ther*al, a.

ANTHERIDIUM
An`ther*id"i*um, n.; pl. Anthplwidia. Etym: [Anther + (Bot.)

Defn: The male reproductive apparatus in the lower, consisting of a
cell or other cavity in which spermatozoids are produced; -- called
also spermary.
 -- An`ther*id"i*al, a.

ANTHERIFEROUS
An`ther*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Anther + -ferous.] (Bot.)
(a) Producing anthers, as plants.
(b) Supporting anthers, as a part of a flower. Gray.

ANTHERIFORM
An*ther"i*form, a. Etym: [Anther + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like an anther; anther-shaped.

ANTHEROGENOUS
An`ther*og"e*nous, a. Etym: [Anther + -genous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Transformed from anthers, as the petals of a double flower.

ANTHEROID
An"ther*oid, a. Etym: [Anther + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling an anther.

ANTHEROZOID; ANTHEROZOOID
An`ther*o*zoid, An`ther*o*zoo"id, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid. See Zooid.]
(Bot.)

Defn: One of the mobile male reproductive bodies in the antheridia of
cryptogams.

ANTHESIS
An*the"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The period or state of full expansion in a flower. Gray.

ANT-HILL
Ant"-hill, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mound thrown up by ants or by termites in forming their
nests.

ANTHOBIAN
An*tho"bi*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beetle which feeds on flowers.

ANTHOBRANCHIA
An`tho*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of nudibranchiate Mollusca, in which the gills form
a wreath or cluster upon the posterior part of the back. See
Nudibranchiata, and Doris.

ANTHOCARPOUS
An`tho*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having some portion of the floral envelopes attached to the
pericarp to form the fruit, as in the checkerberry, the mulberry, and
the pineapple.

ANTHOCYANIN
An`tho*cy"a*nin, n.

Defn: Same as Anthokyan.

ANTHODIUM
An*tho"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The inflorescence of a compound flower in which many florets
are gathered into a involucrate head.

ANTHOGRAPHY
An*thog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of flowers.

ANTHOID
An"thoid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling a flower; flowerlike.

ANTHOKYAN
An`tho*ky"an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: The blue coloring matter of certain flowers. Same as Cyanin.

ANTHOLITE
An"tho*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil plant, like a petrified flower.

ANTHOLOGICAL
An`tho*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthology; consisting of beautiful extracts from
different authors, especially the poets.
He published a geographical and anthological description of all
empires and kingdoms . . . in this terrestrial globe. Wood.

ANTHOLOGIST
An*thol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who compiles an anthology.

ANTHOLOGY
An*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A discourses on flowers. [R.]

2. A collection of flowers; a garland. [R.]

3. A collection of flowers of literature, that is, beautiful passages
from authors; a collection of poems or epigrams; -- particularly
applied to a collection of ancient Greek epigrams.

4. (Gr. Ch.)

Defn: A service book containing a selection of pieces for the
festival services.

ANTHOMANIA
An`tho*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A extravagant fondness for flowers. [R.]

ANTHONY'S FIRE
An"tho*ny's Fire`.

Defn: See Saint Anthony's Fire, under Saint.

ANTHOPHAGOUS
An*thoph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Eating flowers; -- said of certain insects.

ANTHOPHILOUS
An*thoph"i*lous, a. [Gr. 'a`nqos flower + fi`los loving.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Lit., fond of flowers; hence, feeding upon, or living among,
flowers.

ANTHOPHORE
An"tho*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The stipe when developed into an internode between calyx and
corolla, as in the Pink family. Gray.

ANTHOPHOROUS
An*thoph"o*rous, a.

Defn: Flower bearing; supporting the flower.

ANTHOPHYLLITE
An*thoph"yl*lite, n. Etym: [NL. anthophyllum clove.]

Defn: A mineral of the hornblende group, of a yellowish gray or clove
brown color.
 -- An`tho*phyl*lit"ic, a.

ANTHORISM
An"tho*rism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A description or definition contrary to that which is given by
the adverse party. [R.]

ANTHOTAXY
An"tho*tax`y, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The arrangement of flowers in a cluster; the science of the
relative position of flowers; inflorescence.

ANTHOZOA
An`tho*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The class of the Coelenterata which includes the corals and sea
anemones. The three principal groups or orders are Acyonaria,
Actinaria, and Madreporaria.

ANTHOZOAN
An`tho*zo"an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Anthozoa.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Anthozoa.

ANTHOZOIC
An"tho*zo"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Anthozoa.

ANTHRACENE
An"thra*cene, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A solid hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2H2.C6H4, which accompanies
naphthalene in the last stages of the distillation of coal tar. Its
chief use is in the artificial production of alizarin. [Written also
anthracin.]

ANTHRACENE OIL
An"thra*cene oil.

Defn: A heavy green oil (partially solidifying on cooling), which
distills over from coal tar at a temperature above 270º. It is the
principal source of anthracene.

ANTHRACIC
An*thrac"ic, a.

Defn: Of or relating to anthrax; as, anthracic blood.

ANTHRACIFEROUS
An`thra*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. -ferous.] (Min.)

Defn: Yielding anthracite; as, anthraciferous strata.

ANTHRACITE
An"thra*cite, n. Etym: [L. anthracites a kind of bloodstone; fr. Gr.
Anthrax.]

Defn: A hard, compact variety of mineral coal, of high luster,
differing from bituminous coal in containing little or no bitumen, in
consequence of which it burns with a nearly non luminous flame. The
purer specimens consist almost wholly of carbon. Also called glance
coal and blind coal.

ANTHRACITIC
An"thra*cit"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, anthracite; as, anthracitic
formations.

ANTHRACNOSE
An*thrac"nose`, n. [Gr. , , carbuncle +  disease.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several fungus diseases, caused by parasitic species
of the series Melanconiales, attacking the bean, grape, melon,
cotton, and other plants. In the case of the grape, brown concave
spots are formed on the stem and fruit, and the disease is called
bird's-eye rot.

ANTHRACOID
An"thra*coid, a. Etym: [Anthrax + -oid.] (Biol.)

Defn: Resembling anthrax in action; of the nature of anthrax; as, an
anthracoid microbe.

ANTHRACOMANCY
An"thra*co*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by inspecting a burning coal.

ANTHRACOMETER
An`thra*com"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the amount of carbonic acid in a
mixture.

ANTHRACOMETRIC
An`thra*co*met"ric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an anthracometer.

ANTHRACONITE
An*thra"co*nite, n. Etym: [See Anthracite.] (Min.)

Defn: A coal-black marble, usually emitting a fetid smell when
rubbed; -- called also stinkstone and swinestone.

ANTHRACOSIS
An`thra*co"sis, n. [NL. See Anthrax.] (Med.)

Defn: A chronic lung disease, common among coal miners, due to the
inhalation of coal dust; -- called also collier's lung and miner's
phthisis.

ANTHRAQUINONE
An`thra*qui"none, n. Etym: [Anthracene + quinone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2O2.C6H4, subliming in shining yellow
needles. It is obtained by oxidation of anthracene.

ANTHRAX
An"thrax, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Med.)
(a) A carbuncle.
(b) A malignant pustule.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A microscopic, bacterial organism (Bacillus anthracis),
resembling transparent rods. [See Illust. under Bacillus.]

3. An infectious disease of cattle and sheep. It is ascribed to the
presence of a rod-shaped bacterium (Bacillus anthracis), the spores
of which constitute the contagious matter. It may be transmitted to
man by inoculation. The spleen becomes greatly enlarged and filled
with bacteria. Called also splenic fever.

ANTHRAX VACCINE
An"thrax vac"cine. (Veter.)

Defn: A fluid vaccine obtained by growing a bacterium (Bacterium
anthracis) in beef broth. It is used to immunize animals, esp.
cattle.

ANTHRENUS
An*thre"nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small beetles, several of which, in the larval
state, are very destructive to woolen goods, fur, etc. The common
"museum pest" is A. varius; the carpet beetle is A. scrophulariæ. The
larvæ are commonly confounded with moths.

ANTHROPIC; ANTHROPICAL
An*throp"ic, An*throp"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or related to man; human. [R.] Owen.

ANTHROPIDAE
An*throp"i*dæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group that includes man only.

ANTHROPOCENTRIC
An`thro*po*cen"tric, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Assuming man as the center or ultimate end; -- applied to
theories of the universe or of any part of it, as the solar system.
Draper.

ANTHROPOGENIC
An`thro*po*gen"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anthropogeny.

ANTHROPOGENY
An`thro*pog"e*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science or study of human generation, or the origin and
development of man.

ANTHROPOGEOGRAPHY
An`thro*po*ge*og"ra*phy, n. [Gr.  man + geography.]

Defn: The science of the human species as to geographical
distribution and environment. Broadly, it includes industrial,
commercial, and political geography, and that part of ethnology which
deals with distribution and physical environment. --
An`thro*po*ge*og"ra*pher (#), n. -- An`thro*po*ge`o*graph"ic*al (#),
a.

ANTHROPOGLOT
An*throp"o*glot, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal which has a tongue resembling that of man, as the
parrot.

ANTHROPOGRAPHY
An`thro*pog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: That branch of anthropology which treats of the actual
distribution of the human race in its different divisions, as
distinguished by physical character, language, institutions, and
customs, in contradistinction to ethnography, which treats
historically of the origin and filiation of races and nations. P.
Cyc.

ANTHROPOID
An"thro*poid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as the
ourang or gorilla.
 -- n.

Defn: An anthropoid ape.

ANTHROPOIDAL
An`thro*poid"al, a.

Defn: Anthropoid.

ANTHROPOIDEA
An`thro*poid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Anthropoid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The suborder of primates which includes the monkeys, apes, and
man.

ANTHROPOLATRY
An`thro*pol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Man worship.

ANTHROPOLITE
An*throp"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A petrifaction of the human body, or of any portion of it.

ANTHROPOLOGIC; ANTHROPOLOGICAL
An`thro*po*log"ic, An`thro*po*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthropology; belonging to the nature of man.
"Anthropologic wisdom." Kingsley.
 -- An`thro*po*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTHROPOLOGIST
An`thro*pol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in anthropology.

ANTHROPOLOGY
An`thro*pol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

1. The science of the structure and functions of the human body.

2. The science of man; -- sometimes used in a limited sense to mean
the study of man as an object of natural history, or as an animal.

3. That manner of expression by which the inspired writers attribute
human parts and passions to God.

ANTHROPOMANCY
An"thro*po*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by the entrails of human being.

ANTHROPOMETRIC; ANTHROPOMETRICAL
An`thro*po*met"ric, An`thro*po*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthropometry.

ANTHROPOMETRY
An`thro*pom"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -mercy.]

Defn: Measurement of the height and other dimensions of human beings,
especially at different ages, or in different races, occupations,
etc. Dunglison.

ANTHROPOMORPHA
An`thro*po*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Anthropomorphism.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The manlike, or anthropoid, apes.

ANTHROPOMORPHIC
An`thro*po*mor"phic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anthromorphism. Hadley.
 -- An`thro*po*mor"phic*al*ly, adv.

ANTHROPOMORPHISM
An`thro*po*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. The representation of the Deity, or of a polytheistic deity, under
a human form, or with human attributes and affections.

2. The ascription of human characteristics to things not human.

ANTHROPOMORPHIST
An`thro*po*mor"phist, n.

Defn: One who attributes the human form or other human attributes to
the Deity or to anything not human.

ANTHROPOMORPHITE
An`thro*po*mor"phite, n.

Defn: One who ascribes a human form or human attributes to the Deity
or to a polytheistic deity. Taylor. Specifically, one of a sect of
ancient heretics who believed that God has a human form, etc.
Tillotson.

ANTHROPOMORPHITIC
An`thro*po*mor*phit"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: to anthropomorphism. Kitto.

ANTHROPOMORPHITISM
An`thro*po*mor"phi*tism, n.

Defn: Anthropomorphism. Wordsworth.

ANTHROPOMORPHIZE
An`thro*po*mor"phize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To attribute a human form or personality to.
You may see imaginative children every day anthropomorphizing.
Lowell.

ANTHROPOMORPHOLOGY
An`thro*po*mor*phol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy. See Anthropomorphism.]

Defn: The application to God of terms descriptive of human beings.

ANTHROPOMORPHOSIS
An`thro*po*mor"pho*sis, n.

Defn: Transformation into the form of a human being.

ANTHROPOMORPHOUS
An`thro*po*mor"phous, a.

Defn: Having the figure of, or resemblance to, a man; as, an
anthromorphous plant. "Anthromorphous apes." Darwin.

ANTHROPONOMICS; ANTHROPONOMY
An`thro*po*nom"ics, An`thro*pon"o*my, n. [Gr.  man +  usage, law,
rule.]

Defn: The science of the laws of the development of the human
organism in relation to other organisms and to environment. --
An`thro*po*nom"ic*al (#), a.

ANTHROPOPATHIC; ANTHROPOPATHICAL
An`thro*po*path"ic, An`thro*po*path"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anthropopathy. [R.] --
An`thro*po*path"ic*al*ly, adv.
The daring anthropopathic imagery by which the prophets often
represent God as chiding, upbraiding, threatening. H. Rogers.

ANTHROPOPATHISM; ANTHROPOPATHY
An`thro*pop"a*thism, An`thro*pop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The ascription of human feelings or passions to God, or to a
polytheistic deity.
In its recoil from the gross anthropopathy of the vulgar notions, it
falls into the vacuum of absolute apathy. Hare.

ANTHROPOPATHITE
An`thro*pop"a*thite, n.

Defn: One who ascribes human feelings to deity.

ANTHROPOPHAGI
An`thro*poph"a*gi, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: Man eaters; cannibals. Shak.

ANTHROPOPHAGIC; ANTHROPOPHAGICAL
An`thro*po*phag"ic, An`thro*po*phag"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to cannibalism or anthropophagy.

ANTHROPOPHAGINIAN
An`thro*poph`a*gin"i*an, n.

Defn: One who east human flesh. [Ludicrous] Shak.

ANTHROPOPHAGITE
An`thro*poph"a*gite, n.

Defn: A cannibal. W. Taylor.

ANTHROPOPHAGOUS
An`thro*poph"a*gous, a.

Defn: Feeding on human flesh; cannibal.

ANTHROPOPHAGY
An`thro*poph"a*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The eating of human flesh; cannibalism.

ANTHROPOPHUISM
An"thro*poph"u*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Human nature. [R.] Gladstone.

ANTHROPOSCOPY
An`thro*pos"co*py, n. Etym: [Gr. -scopy.]

Defn: The art of discovering or judging of a man's character,
passions. and inclinations from a study of his visible features. [R.]

ANTHROPOSOPHY
An`thro*pos"o*phy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Knowledge of the nature of man; hence, human wisdom.

ANTHROPOTOMICAL
An`thro*po*tom"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthropotomy, or the dissection of human bodies.

ANTHROPOTOMIST
An`thro*pot"o*mist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in anthropotomy, or human anatomy.

ANTHROPOTOMY
An`thro*pot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The anatomy or dissection of the human body; androtomy. Owen.

ANTHYPNOTIC
Ant`hyp*not"ic.

Defn: See Antihypnotic.

ANTHYPOCHONDRIAC
Ant`hyp*o*chon"dri*ac, a. & n.

Defn: See Antihypochondriac.

ANTHYSTERIC
Ant`hys*ter"ic, a. & n.

Defn: See Antihysteric.

ANTI
An"ti. Etym: [Gr. Ante.]

Defn: A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, or
in place of; -- used in composition in many English words. It is
often shortened to ant-; as, antacid, antarctic.

ANTIAE
An"ti*æ, n. pl. Etym: [L., forelock.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of some
birds; the frontal points.

ANTIALBUMID
An`ti*al*bu"mid, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + -albumin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A body formed from albumin by pancreatic and gastric digestion.
It is convertible into antipeptone.

ANTIALBUMOSE
An`ti*al"bu*mose`, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Albumose.

ANTI-AMERICAN
An`ti-A*mer"i*can, a.

Defn: Opposed to the Americans, their aims, or interests, or to the
genius of American institutions. Marshall.

ANTIAPHRODISIAC
An`ti*aph`ro*dis"i*ac, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Antaphrodisiac.

ANTIAPOPLECTIC
An`ti*ap`o*plec"tic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antapoplectic.

ANTIAR
An"ti*ar, n. Etym: [Jav. antjar.]

Defn: A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of one
species of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria).

ANTIARIN
An`ti*a*rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous principle obtained from antiar. Watts.

ANTIASTHMATIC
An`ti*asth*mat"ic, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Antasthmatic.

ANTIATTRITION
An`ti*at*tri"tion, n.

Defn: Anything to prevent the effects of friction, esp. a compound
lubricant for machinery, etc., often consisting of plumbago, with
some greasy material; antifriction grease.

ANTIBACCHIUS
An`ti*bac*chi"us, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Bacchius.] (Pros.)

Defn: A foot of three syllables, the first two long, and the last
short.

ANTIBACTERIAL
An`ti*bac*te"ri*al, a. (Med.)
 (a) Inimical to bacteria; -- applied esp. to serum for protection
against bacterial diseases.
 (b) Opposed to the bacterial theory of disease.

ANTIBILLOUS
An`ti*bil"lous, a.

Defn: Counteractive of bilious complaints; tending to relieve
biliousness.

ANTIBODY
An"ti*bod`y, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Any of various bodies or substances in the blood which act in
antagonism to harmful foreign bodies, as toxins or the bacteria
producing the toxins. Normal blood serum apparently contains
variousantibodies, and the introduction of toxins or of foreign cells
also results in the development of their specific antibodies.

ANTIBRACHIAL
An`ti*brach"i*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the antibrachium, or forearm.

ANTIBRACHIUM
An`ti*brach"i*um, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the fore limb between the brachium and the carpus;
the forearm.

ANTIBROMIC
An`ti*bro"mic, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: An agent that destroys offensive smells; a deodorizer.

ANTIBUBONIC
An`ti*bu*bon"ic, a.

Defn: Good or used against bubonic plague; as, antibubonic serum,
obtained from immunized horses; antibubonic vaccine, a sterilized
bouillon culture of the plague bacillus; antibubonic measures.

ANTIBURGHER
An`ti*burgh"er, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who seceded from the Burghers (1747), deeming it improper
to take the Burgess oath.

ANTIC
An"tic, a. Etym: [The same word as antique; cf. It. antico ancient.
See Antique.]

1. Old; antique. (Zoöl.)

Defn: "Lords of antic fame." Phaer.

2. Odd; fantastic; fanciful; grotesque; ludicrous.
The antic postures of a merry-andrew. Addison.
The Saxons . . . worshiped many idols, barbarous in name, some
monstrous, all antic for shape. Fuller.

ANTIC
An"tic, n.

1. A buffoon or merry-andrew; one that practices odd gesticulations;
the Fool of the old play.

2. An odd imagery, device, or tracery; a fantastic figure.
Woven with antics and wild imagery. Spenser.

3. A grotesque trick; a piece of buffoonery; a caper.
And fraught with antics as the Indian bird That writhes and chatters
in her wiry cage. Wordsworth.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: A grotesque representation. [Obs.]

5. An antimask. [Obs. or R.]
Performed by knights and ladies of his court In nature of an antic.
Ford.

ANTIC
An"tic, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anticked, Antickt.]

Defn: To make appear like a buffoon. [Obs.] Shak.

ANTIC
An"tic, v. i.

Defn: To perform antics.

ANTICATARRHAL
An`ti*ca*tarrh`al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Efficacious against catarrh.
 -- n.

Defn: An anticatarrhal remedy.

ANTICATHODE
An`ti*cath"ode, n. (Phys.)

Defn: The part of a vacuum tube opposite the cathode. Upon it the
cathode rays impinge.

ANTICAUSODIC
An`ti*cau*sod"ic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Anticausotic.

ANTICAUSOTIC
An`ti*cau*sot"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Good against an inflammatory fever.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for such a fever.

ANTICHAMBER
An"ti*cham`ber, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Antechamber.

ANTICHLOR
An"ti*chlor, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + chlorine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any substance (but especially sodium hyposulphite) used in
removing the excess of chlorine left in paper pulp or stuffs after
bleaching.

ANTICHRIST
An"ti*christ, n. Etym: [L. Antichristus, Gr.

Defn: A denier or opponent of Christ. Specif.: A great antagonist,
person or power, expected to precede Christ's second coming.

ANTICHRISTIAN
An`ti*chris"tian, a.

Defn: Opposed to the Christian religion.

ANTICHRISTIANISM; ANTICHRISTIANITY
An`ti*chris"tian*ism, An`ti*chris*tian"i*ty, n.

Defn: Opposition or contrariety to the Christian religion.

ANTICHRISTIANLY
An`ti*chris"tian*ly, adv.

Defn: In an antichristian manner.

ANTICHRONICAL
An`ti*chron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Deviating from the proper order of time.
 -- An`ti*chron"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTICHRONISM
An*tich"ro*nism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Deviation from the true order of time; anachronism. [R.]
Selden.

ANTICHTHON
An*tich"thon, n.; pl. Antichthones. Etym: [Gr.

1. A hypothetical earth counter to ours, or on the opposite side of
the sun. Grote.

2. pl.

Defn: Inhabitants of opposite hemispheres. Whewell.

ANTICIPANT
An*tic"i*pant, a. Etym: [L. anticipans, p. pr. of anticipare.]

Defn: Anticipating; expectant; -- with of.
Wakening guilt, anticipant of hell. Southey.

ANTICIPATE
An*tic"i*pate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anticipated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anticipating.] Etym: [L. anticipatus, p. p. of anticipare to
anticipate; ante + capere to make. See Capable.]

1. To be before in doing; to do or take before another; to preclude
or prevent by prior action.
To anticipate and prevent the duke's purpose. R. Hall.
He would probably have died by the hand of the executioner, if indeed
the executioner had not been anticipated by the populace. Macaulay.

2. To take up or introduce beforehand, or before the proper or normal
time; to cause to occur earlier or prematurely; as, the advocate has
anticipated a part of his argument.

3. To foresee (a wish, command, etc.) and do beforehand that which
will be desired.

4. To foretaste or foresee; to have a previous view or impression of;
as, to anticipate the pleasures of a visit; to anticipate the evils
of life.

Syn.
 -- To prevent; obviate; preclude; forestall; expect.
 -- To Anticipate, Expect. These words, as here compared, agree in
regarding some future event as about to take place. Expect is the
stringer. It supposes some ground or reason in the mind for
considering the event as likely to happen. Anticipate is, literally,
to take beforehand, and here denotes simply to take into the mind as
conception of the future. Hence, to say, "I did not anticipate a
refusal," expresses something less definite and strong than to say, "
did not expect it." Still, anticipate is a convenient word to be
interchanged with expect in cases where the thought will allow.
Good with bad Expect to hear; supernal grace contending With
sinfulness of men. Milton.
I would not anticipate the relish of any happiness, nor feel the
weight of any misery, before it actually arrives. Spectator.
Timid men were anticipating another civil war. Macaulay.

ANTICIPATION
An*tic`i*pa"tion, n. Etym: [L. anticipatio: cf. F. anticipation.]

1. The act of anticipating, taking up, placing, or considering
something beforehand, or before the proper time in natural order.
So shall my anticipation prevent your discovery. Shak.

2. Previous view or impression of what is to happen; instinctive
prevision; foretaste; antepast; as, the anticipation of the joys of
heaven.
The happy anticipation of renewed existence in company with the
spirits of the just. Thodey.

3. Hasty notion; intuitive preconception.
Many men give themselves up to the first anticipations of their
minds. Locke.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: The commencing of one or more tones of a chord with or during
the chord preceding, forming a momentary discord.

Syn.
 -- Preoccupation; preclusion; foretaste; prelibation; antepast;
pregustation; preconception; expectation; foresight; forethought.

ANTICIPATIVE
An*tic"i*pa*tive, a.

Defn: Anticipating, or containing anticipation. "Anticipative of the
feast to come." Cary.
 -- An*tic"i*pa*tive*ly, adv.

ANTICIPATOR
An*tic"i*pa`tor, n.

Defn: One who anticipates.

ANTICIPATORY
An*tic"i*pa*to*ry, a.

Defn: Forecasting; of the nature of anticipation. Owen.
Here is an anticipatory glance of what was to be. J. C. Shairp.

ANTICIVIC
An`ti*civ"ic, n.

Defn: Opposed to citizenship.

ANTICIVISM
An`ti*civ"ism, n.

Defn: Opposition to the body politic of citizens. [Obs.] Carlyle.

ANTICLASTIC
An`ti*clas"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- = Gr.

Defn: Having to opposite curvatures, that is, curved longitudinally
in one direction and transversely in the opposite direction, as the
surface of a saddle.

ANTICLIMAX
An`ti*cli"max, n. (Rhet.)

Defn: A sentence in which the ideas fall, or become less important
and striking, at the close; -- the opposite of climax. It produces a
ridiculous effect. Example:
Next comes Dalhousie, the great god of war,
Lieutenant-colonel to the Earl ANTICLINAL
An`ti*cli"nal, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: Inclining or dipping in opposite directions. See Synclinal.
Anticlinal line, Anticlinal axis (Geol.), a line from which strata
dip in opposite directions, as from the ridge of a roof.
 -- Anticlinal vertebra (Anat.), one of the dorsal vertebræ, which in
many animals has an upright spine toward which the spines of the
neighboring vertebræ are inclined.

ANTICLINAL
An`ti*cli"nal, n. (Geol.)

Defn: The crest or line in which strata slope or dip in opposite
directions.

ANTICLINE
An"ti*cline, n. [See Anticlinal.] (Geol.)

Defn: A structure of bedded rocks in which the beds on both sides of
an axis or axial plane dip away from the axis; an anticlinal.

ANTICLINORIUM
An`ti*cli*no"ri*um, n.; pl. Anticlinoria. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: The upward elevation of the crust of the earth, resulting from
a geanticlinal.

ANTICLY
An"tic*ly, adv.

Defn: Oddly; grotesquely.

ANTIC-MASK
An"tic-mask`, n.

Defn: An antimask. B. Jonson.

ANTICNESS
An"tic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being antic. Ford.

ANTICOHERER
An`ti*co*her"er, n. (Wireless Teleg.)

Defn: A device, one form of which consists of a scratched deposit of
silver on glass, used in connection with the receiving apparatus for
reading wireless signals. The electric waves falling on this
contrivance increase its resistance several times. The anticoherer
can be used in conjunction with a telephone.

ANTICONSTITUTIONAL
An`ti*con`sti*tu"tion*al, a.

Defn: Opposed to the constitution; unconstitutional.

ANTICONTAGIOUS
An`ti*con*ta"gious, a. (Med.)

Defn: Opposing or destroying contagion.

ANTICONVULSIVE
An`ti*con*vul"sive, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against convulsions. J. Floyer.

ANTICOR
An"ti*cor, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + L. cor heart; cf. F. antic.]
(Far.)

Defn: A dangerous inflammatory swelling of a horse's breast, just
opposite the heart.

ANTICOUS
An*ti"cous, a. Etym: [L. anticus in front, foremost, fr. ante
before.] (Bot.)

Defn: Facing toward the axis of the flower, as in the introrse
anthers of the water lily.

ANTICYCLONE
An"ti*cy`clone, n. (Meteorol.)

Defn: A movement of the atmosphere opposite in character, as regards
direction of the wind and distribution of barometric pressure, to
that of a cyclone.
 -- An`ti*cy*clon"ic, a.
 -- An`ti*cy*clon"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTIDIPHTHERITIC
An`ti*diph`the*rit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Destructive to, or hindering the growth of, diphtheria bacilli.
-- n.

Defn: An antidiphtheritic agent.

ANTIDOTAL
An"ti*do`tal(#) a.

Defn: Having the quality an antidote; fitted to counteract the
effects of poison. Sir T. Browne.
 -- An"ti*do`tal*ly, adv.

ANTIDOTARY
An"ti*do`ta*ry, a.

Defn: Antidotal.
 -- n. Antidote; also, a book of antidotes.

ANTIDOTE
An"ti*dote, n. Etym: [L. antidotum, Gr. antidote. See Dose, n.]

1. A remedy to counteract the effects of poison, or of anything
noxious taken into the stomach; -- used with against, for, or to; as,
an antidote against, for, or to, poison.

2. Whatever tends to prevent mischievous effects, or to counteract
evil which something else might produce.

ANTIDOTE
An"ti*dote, v. t.

1. To counteract or prevent the effects of, by giving or taking an
antidote.
Nor could Alexander himself . . . antidote . . . the poisonous
draught, when it had once got into his veins. South.

2. To fortify or preserve by an antidote.

ANTIDOTICAL
An`ti*dot"ic*al, a.

Defn: Serving as an antidote.
 -- An`ti*dot"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTIDROMOUS
An*tid"ro*mous, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Changing the direction in the spiral sequence of leaves on a
stem.

ANTIDYSENTERIC
An`ti*dys`en*ter"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against dysentery.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for dysentery.