

FUNERATE
Fu"ner*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. funeratus, p. p. of funerare to funerate,
fr. funus. See Funeral.]

Defn: To bury with funeral rites. [Obs.] Cockeram.

FUNERATION
Fu`ner*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. funeratio.]

Defn: The act of burying with funeral rites. [Obs.] Knatchbull.

FUNEREAL
Fu*ne"re*al, a. Etym: [L. funereus, fr. fentus a funeral.]

Defn: Suiting a funeral; pertaining to burial; solemn. Hence: Dark;
dismal; mournful. Jer. Taylor.
What seem to us but sad funereal tapers May be heaven's distant
lamps. Longfellow.
-- Fu*ne"re*al*ly, adv.

FUNEST
Fu*nest", a. Etym: [L. funestus, fr. funus a funeral, destruction:
cf. F. funeste.]

Defn: Lamentable; doleful. [R.] "Funest and direful deaths."
Coleridge.
A forerunner of something very funest. Evelyn.

FUNGAL
Fun"gal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to fungi.

FUNGATE
Fun"gate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fongate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of fungic acid. [Formerly written also fungiate.]

FUNGE
Funge, n. Etym: [L. fungus mushroom, dolt.]

Defn: A blockhead; a dolt; a fool. [Obs.] Burton.

FUNGI
Fun"gi, n. pl. (Bot.)

Defn: See Fungus.

FUNGIA
Fun"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. fungus mushroom: cf. F. fongie.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of simple, stony corals; -- so called because they are
usually flat and circular, with radiating plates, like the gills of a
mushroom. Some of them are eighteen inches in diameter.

FUNGIAN
Fun"gi*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Fungidæ, a family of stony corals.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Fungidæ.

FUNGIBLES
Fun"gi*bles, n. pl. Etym: [LL. (res) fungibiles, probably fr. L.
fungi to discharge. "A barbarous term, supposed to have originated in
the use of the words functionem recipere in the Digeste." Bouvier.
"Called fungibiles, quia una alterius vice fungitur." John Taylor
(1755). Cf. Function.]

1. (Civ. Law)

Defn: Things which may be furnished or restored in kind, as
distinguished from specific things; -- called also fungible things.
Burrill.

2. (Scots Law)

Defn: Movable goods which may be valued by weight or measure, in
contradistinction from those which must be judged of individually.
Jamieson.

FUNGIC
Fun"gic, a. Etym: [L. fungus mushroom: cf. F. fungique, fongique.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, mushrooms; as, fungic acid.

FUNGICIDE
Fun"gi*cide`, n. Etym: [Fungi + -cide, fr. L. caedere to kill.]

Defn: Anything that kills fungi.
 -- Fun`gi*ci"dal, n.

FUNGIFORM
Fun"gi*form, a. Etym: [Eungus + -form: cf. F. fongiforme.]

Defn: Shaped like a fungus or mushroom. Fungiform papillæ (Anat.),
numerous small, rounded eminences on the upper surface of the tongue.

FUNGI IMPERFECTI
Fun"gi Im`per*fec"ti, pl. [L. imperfecti imperfect.] (Bot.)

Defn: A heterogenous group of fungi of which the complete life
history is not known. Some undoubtedly represent the conidium stages
of various Ascomycetes. The group is divided into the orders
Sphæropsidales, Melanconiales, and Moniliales.

FUNGILLIFORM
Fun*gil"li*form, a.

Defn: Shaped like a small fungus.

FUNGIN
Fun"gin, n. Etym: [L. fungus mushroom: cf. F, fongine, fungine.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A name formerly given to cellulose found in certain fungi and
mushrooms.

FUNGITE
Fun"gite, n. Etym: [L. fungus mushroom: cf. F. pongite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil coral resembling Fungia.

FUNGIVOROUS
Fun*giv"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. fungus + vorare to eat freedily: cf. F.
fangivore.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Eating fungi; -- said of certain insects and snails.

FUNGOID
Fun"goid, a. Etym: [Fungus + -oil: cf. F. fongoïde.]

Defn: Like a fungus; fungous; spongy.

FUNGOLOGIST
Fun*gol"o*gist, n.

Defn: A mycologist.

FUNGOLOGY
Fun*gol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Fungus + --logy.]

Defn: Mycology.

FUNGOSITY
Fun*gos"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fungosité, fongosité.]

Defn: The quality of that which is fungous; fungous excrescence.
Dunglison.

FUNGOUS
Fun"gous, a. Etym: [L. fungosus: cf. F. fungueux.]

1. Of the nature of fungi; spongy.

2. Growing suddenly, but not substantial or durable.

FUNGUS
Fun"gus, n.; pl. L. Fungi, E. Funguses. Etym: [L., a mushroom; perh.
akin to a doubtful Gr. sponge.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of the Fungi, a large and very complex group of
thallophytes of low organization, -- the molds, mildews, rusts,
smuts, mushrooms, toadstools, puff balls, and the allies of each.

Note: The fungi are all destitute of chorophyll, and, therefore, to
be supplied with elaborated nourishment, must live as saprophytes or
parasites. They range in size from single microscopic cells to
systems of entangled threads many feet in extent, which develop
reproductive bodies as large as a man's head. The vegetative system
consists of septate or rarely unseptate filaments called hyphæ; the
aggregation of hyphæ into structures of more or less definite form is
known as the mycelium. See Fungi, in the Supplement.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A spongy, morbid growth or granulation in animal bodies, as the
proud flesh of wounds. Hoblyn.

FUNIC
Fu"nic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Funicular.

FUNICLE
Fu"ni*cle, n. Etym: [L. funiculus, dim. of funis cord, rope: cf. F.
funicule funicle (in sense 2). Cf. Funambulo.] (Bot.)

1. A small cord, ligature, or fiber.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The little stalk that attaches a seed to the placenta.

FUNICULAR
Fu*nic"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. funiculaire.]

1. Consisting of a small cord or fiber.

2. Dependent on the tension of a cord.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to a funiculus; made up of, or resembling, a
funiculus, or funiculi; as, a funicular ligament. Funicular action
(Mech.), the force or action exerted by a rope in drawing together
the supports to which its ends are Fastened, when acted upon by
forces applied in a direction transverse to the rope, as in the
archer's bow.
 -- Funicular curve. Same as Catenary.
 -- Funicular machine (Mech.), an apparatus for illustrating certain
principles in statics, consisting of a cord or chain attached at one
end to a fixed point, and having the other passed over a pulley and
sustaining a weight, while one or more other weights are suspended
from the cord at points between the fixed support and the pulley.
 -- Funicular polygon (Mech.), the polygonal figure assumed by a cord
fastened at its extremities, and sustaining weights at different
points.

FUNICULATE
Fu*nic"u*late, a.

Defn: Forming a narrow ridge.

FUNICULUS
Fu*nic"u*lus, n.; pl. Funiculi. Etym: [L., a little cord. See
Funicle.]

1. (Anat.) A cord, baud, or bundle of fibers; esp., one of the small
bundles of fibers, of which large nerves are made up; applied also to
different bands of white matter in the brain and spinal cord.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A short cord which connects the embryo of some myriapods with the
amnion.
(b) In Bryozoa, an organ extending back from the stomach. See
Bryozoa, and Phylactolema.

FUNILIFORM
Fu*nil"i*form, a. Etym: [L. funis rope + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling a cord in toughness and flexibility, as the roots of
some endogenous trees.

FUNIS
Fu"nis, n. Etym: [L., a rope. ]

Defn: A cord; specifically, the umbilical cord or navel string.

FUNK
Funk, n. Etym: [OE. funke a little fire; akin to Prov. E. funk
touchwood, G. funke spark, and perh. to Goth. f fire.]

Defn: An offensive smell; a stench. [Low]

FUNK
Funk, v. t.

Defn: To envelop with an offensive smell or smoke. [Obs.] King.

FUNK
Funk, v. i.

1. To emit an offensive smell; to stink.

2. To be frightened, and shrink back; to flinch; as, to funk at the
edge of a precipice. [Colloq.] C. Kingsley. To funk out, to back out
in a cowardly fashion. [Colloq.]
To funk right out o' political strife. Lowell (Biglow Papers).

FUNK; FUNKING
Funk, Funk"ing, n.

Defn: A shrinking back through fear. [Colloq.] "The horrid panic, or
funk (as the men of Eton call it)." De Quincey.

FUNKY
Funk"y, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, great fear, or funking.
[Colloq. Eng.]

FUNNEL
Fun"nel, n. Etym: [OE. funel, fonel, prob. through OF. fr, L.
fundibulum, infundibulum, funnel, fr. infundere to pour in; in in +
fundere to pour; cf. Armor. founil funnel, W. ffynel air hole,
chimney. See Fuse, v. t.]

1. A vessel of the shape of an inverted hollow cone, terminating
below in a pipe, and used for conveying liquids into a close vessel;
a tunnel.

2. A passage or avenue for a fluid or flowing substance;
specifically, a smoke flue or pipe; the iron chimney of a steamship
or the like. Funnel box (Mining), an apparatus for collecting finely
crushed ore from water. Knight.
 -- Funnel stay (Naut.), one of the ropes or rods steadying a
steamer's funnel.

FUNNELFORM
Fun"nel*form`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a funnel, or tunnel; that is, expanding
gradually from the bottom upward, as the corolla of some flowers;
infundibuliform.

FUNNY
Fun"ny, a. [Compar. Funnier; superl. Funniest.] Etym: [From Fun.]

Defn: Droll; comical; amusing; laughable. Funny bone. See crazy bone,
under Crazy.

FUNNY
Fun"ny, n.; pl. Funnies (.

Defn: A clinkerbuit, narrow boat for sculling. [Eng.]

FUR
Fur, n. Etym: [OE. furre, OF. forre, fuerre, sheatth, case, of German
origin; cf. OHG. fuotar lining, case, G. futter; akin to Icel. f
lining, Goth. f, scabbard; cf. Skr. p vessel, dish. The German and
Icel. words also have the sense, fodder, but this was probably a
different word originally. Cf. Fodder food, Fother, v. t., Forel, n.]

1. The short, fine, soft hair of certain animals, growing thick on
the skin, and distinguished from the hair, which is longer and
coarser.

2. The skins of certain wild animals with the fur; peltry; as, a
cargo of furs.

3. Strips of dressed skins with fur, used on garments for warmth or
for ornament.

4. pl.

Defn: Articles of clothing made of fur; as, a set of furs for a lady
(a collar, tippet, or cape, muff, etc.).
Wrapped up in my furs. Lady M. W. Montagu.

5. Any coating considered as resembling fur; as:
(a) A coat of morbid matter collected on the tongue in persons
affected with fever.
(b) The soft, downy covering on the skin of a peach.
(c) The deposit formed on the interior of boilers and other vessels
by hard water.

6. (Her.)

Defn: One of several patterns or diapers used as tinctures. There are
nine in all, or, according to some writers, only six. See Tincture.

FUR
Fur, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to furs; bearing or made of fur; as, a fur
cap; the fur trade. Fur seal (Zoöl.) one of several species of seals
of the genera Callorhinus and Arclocephalus, inhabiting the North
Pacific and the Antarctic oceans. They have a coat of fine and soft
fur which is highly prized. The northern fur seal (Callorhinus
ursinus) breeds in vast numbers on the Prybilov Islands, off the
coast of Alaska; -- called also sea bear.

FUR
Fur, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Furred; p. pr. & vb. n. Furring.]

1. To line, face, or cover with fur; as, furred robes. "You fur your
gloves with reason." Shak.

2. To cover with morbid matter, as the tongue.

3. (Arch.) To nail small strips of board or larger scantling upon, in
order to make a level surface for lathing or boarding, or to provide
for a space or interval back of the plastered or boarded surface, as
inside an outer wall, by way of protection against damp. Gwill.

FURACIOUS
Fu*ra"cious, a. Etym: [L. furax, -racis thievish, from fur thief.]

Defn: Given to theft; thievish. [Obs.]

FURACITY
Fu*rac"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. furacitas.]

Defn: Addictedness to theft; thievishness. [Obs.]

FURBELOW
Fur"be*low, n. Etym: [Prov. F. farbala, equiv. to F. falbala, It.
falbalà.]

Defn: A plaited or gathered flounce on a woman's garment.

FURBELOW
Fur"be*low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Furbelowed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Furbelowing.]

Defn: To put a furbelow on; to ornament.

FURBISH
Fur"bish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Furbished; p. pr. & vb. n. Furbishing.]
Etym: [OE. forbischen, OF. forbir, furbir, fourbir, F. fourbir, fr.
OHG. furban to clean. See -ish.]

Defn: To rub or scour to brightness; to clean; to burnish; as, to
furbish a sword or spear. Shak.
Furbish new the name of John a Gaunt. Shak.

FURBISHABLE
Fur"bish*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being furbished.

FURBISHER
Fur"bish*er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fourbisseur.]

Defn: One who furbishes; esp., a sword cutler, who finishes sword
blades and similar weapons.

FURCATE; FURCATED
Fur"cate, Fur"ca*ted, a. Etym: [L. furca fork. See Fork.]

Defn: Forked; branching like a fork; as, furcate twigs.

FURCATION
Fur*ca"tion, n.

Defn: A branching like a. fork.

FURCIFEROUS
Fur*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. furcifer yoke bearer, scoundrel; furca
fork, yoke, fork-shaped instrument of punishment + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Rascally; scandalous. [R.] "Furciferous knaves." De Quincey.

FURCULA
Fur"cu*la, n. Etym: [L., a forked prop, dim. of furca a fork.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A forked process; the wishbone or furculum.

FURCULAR
Fur"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Shaped like a fork; furcate.

FURCULUM
Fur"cu*lum, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. furca a fork.] (Anat.)

Defn: The wishbone or merrythought of birds, formed by the united
clavicles.

FURDLE
Fur"dle, v. t. Etym: [See Fardel, and cf. Furl.]

Defn: To draw up into a bundle; to roll up. [Ods.]

FURFUR
Fur"fur, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Scurf; dandruff.

FURFURACEOUS
Fur"fu*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [L. furfuraceus.]

Defn: Made of bran; like bran; scurfy.

FURFURAN
Fur"fu*ran, n. Etym: [L. furfur bran.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, oily substance, C4H4O, obtained by distilling
certain organic substances, as pine wood, salts of pyromucic acid,
etc.; -- called also tetraphenol.

FURFURATION
Fur"fu*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. furfur bran, scurf.]

Defn: Falling of scurf from the head; desquamation.

FURFURINE
Fur"fu*rine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline base, obtained indirectly from furfurol.

FURFUROL
Fur"fu*rol, n. Etym: [L. furfur bran + oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless oily liquid, C4H3O.CHO, of a pleasant odor,
obtained by the distillation of bran, sugar, etc., and regarded as an
aldehyde derivative of furfuran; -- called also furfural.

FURFUROUS
Fur"fu*rous, a.

Defn: Made of bran; furfuraceous. [R.] "Furfurous bread." Sydney
Smith.

FURIAL
Fu"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. furialis: cf. OF. furial.]

Defn: Furious; raging; tormenting. [Obs.] Chaucer.

FURIBUNDAL
Fu`ri*bun"dal, a. Etym: [L. furibundus, fr. furere to rage.]

Defn: Full of rage. [Obs.] G. Harvey.

FURIES
Fu"ries, n. pl.

Defn: See Fury, 3.

FURILE
Fu"rile, n. Etym: [Furfurol + benzile.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow, crystalline substance, (C4H3O)2.C2O2, obtained by the
oxidation of furoin. [Written also furil.]

FURILIC
Fu*ril"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, furile; as, furilic acid.

FURIOSO
Fu"ri*o"so, a.& adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: With great force or vigor; vehemently.

FURIOUS
Fu"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. furiosus, fr. furia rage, fury: cf. F.
furieux. See Fury.]

1. Transported with passion or fury; raging; violent; as, a furious
animal.

2. Rushing with impetuosity; moving with violence; as, a furious
stream; a furious wind or storm.

Syn.
 -- Impetuous; vehement; boisterous; fierce; turbulent; tumultuous;
angry; mad; frantic; frenzied.
 -- Fu"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Fu"ri*ous*ness, n.

FURL
Furl, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Furld; p. pr. & vb. n. Furling.] Etym:
[Contr. fr. furdle, fr. fardel bundle: cf. F. ferler to furl, OF.
fardeler to pack. See Furdle, Fardel, and cf. Farl.]

Defn: To draw up or gather into close compass; to wrap or roll, as a
sail, close to the yard, stay, or mast, or, as a flag, close to or
around its staff, securing it there by a gasket or line. Totten.

FURLONG
Fur"long, n. Etym: [OE. furlong, furlang, AS. furlang, furlung,
prop., the length of a furrow; furh furrow + lang long. See Furrow,
and Long, a.]

Defn: A measure of length; the eighth part of a mile; forty rods; two
hundred and twenty yards.

FURLOUGH
Fur"lough, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. D. verlof, fr. a prefix akin to E. for
+ the root of E. lief, and akin to Dan. forlov, Sw. förlof, G.
verlaub permission. See Life, a.] (Mil.)

Defn: Leave of abserice; especially, leave given to an offcer or
soldier to be absent from service for a certain time; also, the
document granting leave of absence.

FURLOUGH
Fur"lough, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Furloughed (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Furloughing.] (Mil.)

Defn: To furnish with a furlough; to grant leave of absence to, as to
an offcer or soldier.

FURMONTY; FURMITY
Fur"mon*ty, Fur"mi*ty n.

Defn: Same as Frumenty.

FURNACE
Fur"nace, n. Etym: [OE. fornais, forneis, OF. fornaise, F. fournaise,
from L. fornax; akin to furnus oven, and prob. to E. forceps.]

1. An inclosed place in which heat is produced by the combustion of
fuel, as for reducing ores or melting metals, for warming a house,
for baking pottery, etc.; as, an iron furnace; a hot-air furnace; a
glass furnace; a boiler furnace, etc.

Note: Furnaces are classified as wind or air. furnaces when the fire
is urged only by the natural draught; as blast furnaces, when the
fire is urged by the injection artificially of a forcible current of
air; and as reverberatory furnaces, when the flame, in passing to the
chimney, is thrown down by a low arched roof upon the materials
operated upon.

2. A place or time of punishment, affiction, or great trial; severe
experience or discipline. Deut. iv. 20. Bustamente furnace, a shaft
furnace for roasting quicksilver ores.
 -- Furnace bridge, Same as Bridge wall. See Bridge, n., 5.
 -- Furnace cadmiam or cadmia, the oxide of zinc which accumulates in
the chimneys of furnaces smelting zinciferous ores. Raymond.
 -- Furnace hoist (Iron Manuf.), a lift for raising ore, coal, etc.,
to the mouth of a blast furnace.

FURNACE
Fur"nace, n.

1. To throw out, or exhale, as from a furnace; also, to put into a
furnace. [Obs. or R.]
He furnaces The thick sighe from him. Shak.

FURNIMENT
Fur"ni*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fourniment. See Furnish.]

Defn: Furniture. [Obs.] Spenser.

FURNISH
Fur"nish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Furnished; p. pr. & vb. n. Furnishing.]
Etym: [OF. furnir, fornir, to furnish, finish, F. fournir; akin to
Pr. formir, furmir, fromir, to accomplish, satisfy, fr. OHG. frumjan
to further, execute, do, akin to E. frame. See Frame, v. t., and -
ish.]

1. To supply with anything necessary, useful, or appropriate; to
provide; to equip; to fit out, or fit up; to adorn; as, to furnish a
family with provisions; to furnish one with arms for defense; to
furnish a Cable; to furnish the mind with ideas; to furnish one with
knowledge or principles; to furnish an expedition or enterprise, a
room or a house.
That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all
good works. 2 Tim. iii. 17,

2. To offer for use; to provide (something); to give (something); to
afford; as, to furnish food to the hungry: to furnish arms for
defense.
Ye are they . . . that furnish the drink offering unto that number.
Is. lxv. 11.
His writings and his life furnish abundant proofs that he was not a
man of strong sense. Macaulay.

FURNISH
Fur"nish, n.

Defn: That which is furnished as a specimen; a sample; a supply.
[Obs.] Greene.

FURNISHER
Fur"nish*er, n.

Defn: One who supplies or fits out.

FURNISHMENT
Fur"nish*ment, n.

Defn: The act of furnishing, or of supplying furniture; also,
furniture. [Obs.] Daniel.

FURNITURE
Fur"ni*ture, n. Etym: [F. fourniture. See Furnish, v. t.]

1. That with which anything is furnished or supplied; supplies;
outfit; equipment.
The form and all the furniture of the earth. Tillotson.
The thoughts which make the furniture of their minds. M. Arnold.

2. Articles used for convenience or decoration in a house or
apartment, as tables, chairs, bedsteads, sofas, carpets, curtains,
pictures, vases, etc.

3. The necessary appendages to anything, as to a machine, a carriage,
a ship, etc.
(a) (Naut.) The masts and rigging of a ship.
(b) (Mil.) The mountings of a gun.
(c) Builders' hardware such as locks, door and window trimmings.
(d) (Print) Pieces of wood or metal of a lesser height than the type,
placed around the pages or other matter in a form, and, with the
quoins, serving to secure the form in its place in the chase.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: A mixed or compound stop in an organ; -- sometimes called
mixture.

FUROIN
Fu"ro*in, n. Etym: [See Furfurol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, crystalline substance, C10H8O4, from furfurol.

FURORE
Fu*ro"re, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: Excitement; commotion; enthusiasm.

FURRIER
Fur"ri*er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fourreur.]

Defn: A dealer in furs; one who makes or sells fur goods.

FURRIERY
Fur"ri*er*y, n.

1. Furs, in general. Tooke.

2. The business of a furrier; trade in furs.

FURRING
Fur"ring, n.

1. (Carp.)
(a) The leveling of a surface, or the preparing of an air space, by
means of strips of board or of larger pieces. See Fur, v. t., 3.
(b) The strips thus laid on.

2. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: Double planking of a ship's side.

3. A deposit from water, as on the inside of a boiler; also, the
operation of cleaning away this deposit.

FURROW
Fur"row, n. Etym: [OE. forow, forgh, furgh, AS. furh; akin to D.
voor, OHG. furuh, G. furche, Dan. fure, Sw. f, Icel. for drain, L.
porca ridge between two furrows.]

1. A trench in the earth made by, or as by, a plow.

2. Any trench, channel, or groove, as in wood or metal; a wrinkle on
the face; as, the furrows of age. Farrow weed a weed which grows on
plowed land. Shak.
 -- To draw a straight furrow, to live correctly; not to deviate from
the right line of duty. Lowell.

FURROW
Fur"row, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Furrowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Furrowing.]
Etym: [From Furrow, n.; cf. AS. fyrian.]

1. To cut a furrow in; to make furrows in; to plow; as, to furrow the
ground or sea. Shak.

2. To mark with channels or with wrinkles.
Thou canst help time to furrow me with age. Shak.
Fair cheeks were furrowed with hot tears. Byron.

FURROWY
Fur"row*y, a.

Defn: Furrowed. [R.] Tennyson.

FURRY
Fur"ry, a. Etym: [From Fur.]

1. Covered with fur; dressed in fur. "Furry nations." Thomson.

2. Consisting of fur; as, furry spoils. Dryden.

3. Resembling fur.

FURTHER
Fur"ther, adv. Etym: [A comparative of forth; OE. further, forther,
AS. fur, far; akin to G. fürder. See Forth, adv.]

Defn: To a greater distance; in addition; moreover. See Farther.
Carries us, I know not how much further, into familiar company. M.
Arnold.
They sdvanced us far as Eleusis and Thria; but no further. Jowett
(Thucyd. ).
Further off, not so near; apart by a greater distance.

FURTHER
Fur"ther, a. compar. [Positive wanting; superl. Furthest.]

1. More remote; at a greater distance; more in advance; farther; as,
the further end of the field. See Farther.

2. Beyond; additional; as, a further reason for this opinion; nothing
further to suggest.

Note: The forms further and farther are in general not differentiated
by writers, but further is preferred by many when application to
quantity or degree is implied.

FURTHER
Fur"ther", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Furthered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Furthering.] Etym: [OE. furthren, forthren, AS. fyredhran,
fyredhrian. See Further, adv.]

Defn: To help forward; to promote; to advance; to forward; to help or
assist.
This binds thee, then, to further my design. Dryden.
I should nothing further the weal public. Robynsom (More's Utopia).

FURTHERANCE
Fur"ther*ance, n.

Defn: The act of furthering or helping forward; promotion;
advancement; progress.
I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your
furthersnce and joy of faith. Phil. i. 25.
Built of furtherance and pursuing, Not of spent deeds, but of doing.
Emerson.

FURTHERER
Fur"ther*er, n.

Defn: One who furthers. or helps to advance; a promoter. Shak.

FURTHERMORE
Fur"ther*more", adv.

Defn: or conj. Moreover; besides; in addition to what has been said.

FURTHERMOST
Fur"ther*most", a.

Defn: Most remote; furthest.

FURTHERSOME
Fur"ther*some, a.

Defn: Tending to further, advance, or promote; helpful; advantageous.
[R.]
You will not find it furthersome. Carlyle.

FURTHEST
Fur"thest, a.

Defn: superl. Most remote; most in advance; farthest. See Further, a.

FURTHEST
Fur"thest, adv.

Defn: At the greatest distance; farthest.

FURTIVE
Fur"tive, a. Etym: [L. furtivus, fr. furtum theft, fr. fur thief,
akin to ferre to bear: cf. F. furtif. See Fertile.]

Defn: Stolen; obtained or characterized by stealth; sly; secret;
stealthy; as, a furtive look. Prior.
A hasty and furtive ceremony. Hallam.

FURTIVELY
Fur"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: Stealthily by theft. Lover.

FURUNCLE
Fu"run*cle, n. Etym: [L. furunculus a petty thief, a boil, dim. of
fur thief: cf. F. furoncle.] (Med.)

Defn: A superficial, inflammatory tumor, suppurating with a central
core; a boil.

FURUNCULAR
Fu*run"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a furuncle; marked by the presence of
furuncles.

FURY
Fu"ry, n. Etym: [L. fur.]

Defn: A thief. [Obs.]
Have an eye to your plate, for there be furies. J. Fleteher.

FURY
Fu"ry, n.; pl. Furies. Etym: [L. furia, fr. furere to rage: cf. F.
furie. Cf. Furor.]

1. Violent or extreme excitement; overmastering agitation or
enthusiasm. Her wit began to be with a divine fury inspired. Sir P.
Sidney.

2. Violent anger; extreme wrath; rage; -- sometimes applied to
inanimate things, as the wind or storms; impetuosity; violence. "Fury
of the wind." Shak.
I do oppose my patience to his fury. Shak.

3. pl. (Greek Myth.) The avenging deities, Tisiphone, Alecto, and
Megæra; the Erinyes or Eumenides.
The Furies, they said, are attendants on justice, and if the sun in
heaven should transgress his path would punish him. Emerson.

4. One of the Parcæ, or Fates, esp. Atropos. [R.]
Comes the blind Fury with the abhorred shears, And slits the thin-
spun life. Milton.

5. A stormy, turbulent violent woman; a hag; a vixen; a virago; a
termagant.

Syn.
 -- Anger; indignation; resentment; wrath; ire; rage; vehemence;
violence; fierceness; turbulence; madness; frenzy. See Anger.

FURZE
Furze, n. Etym: [OE. firs, As. fyrs.] (Bot.)

Defn: A thorny evergreen shrub (Ulex Europæus), with beautiful yellow
flowers, very common upon the plains and hills of Great Britain; --
called also gorse, and whin. The dwarf furze is Ulex nanus.

FURZECHAT
Furze"chat", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The whinchat; -- called also furzechuck.

FURZELING
Furze"ling, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An English warbler (Melizophilus provincialis); -- called also
furze wren, and Dartford warbler.

FURZEN
Furz"en, a.

Defn: Furzy; gorsy. [Obs.] Holland.

FURZY
Furz"y, a. a.

Defn: bounding in, or overgrown with, furze; characterized by furze.
Gay.

FUSAIN
Fu"sain", n. Etym: [F., the spindle tree; also, charcoal made from
it.] (Eine Arts)
(a) Fine charcoal of willow wood, used as a drawing implement.
(b) A drawing made with it. See Charcoal, n. 2, and Charcoal drawing,
under Charcoal.

FUSAROLE
Fu"sa*role, n. Etym: [F. fusarolle, fr. It. fusaruolo, fr. fuso
spindle, shaft of a column. See Fusee a conical wheel.] (Arch.)

Defn: A molding generally placed under the echinus or quarter round
of capitals in the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders of
architecture.

FUSCATION
Fus*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. fuscare, fuscatum, to make dark, fr. fuscus
dark.]

Defn: A darkening; obscurity; obfuscation. [R.] Blount.

FUSCIN
Fus"cin, n. Etym: [L. fuscus dark-colored, tawny.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A brown, nitrogenous pigment contained in the retinal
epithelium; a variety of melanin.

FUSCINE
Fus"cine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A dark-colored substance obtained from empyreumatic animal oil.
[R.]

FUSCOUS
Fus"cous, a. Etym: [L. fuscus.]

Defn: Brown or grayish black; darkish.
Sad and fuscous colors, as black or brown, or deep purple and the
like. Burke.

FUSE
Fuse, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fused (fuzd); p. pr. & vb. n. Fusing.]
Etym: [L. fusus, p. p. of fundere to pour, melt, cast. See Foundo to
cast, and cf. Futile.]

1. To liquefy by heat; to render fiuid; to dissolve; to melt.

2. To unite or blend, as if melted together.
Whose fancy fuses old and new. Tennyson.

FUSE
Fuse, v. i.

1. To be reduced from a solid to a Quid state by heat; to be melted;
to melt.

2. To be blended, as if melted together. Fusing point, the degree of
temperature at which a substance melts; the point of fusion.

FUSE
Fuse, n. Etym: [For fusee, fusil. See 2d Fusil.] (Gunnery, Mining,
etc.)

Defn: A tube or casing filled with combustible matter, by means of
which a charge of powder is ignited, as in blasting; -- called also
fuzee. See Fuze. Fuse hole, the hole in a shell prepared for the
reception of the fuse. Farrow.

FUSEE
Fu*see", n. Etym: [See 2d Fusil, and cf. Fuse, n.]

1. A flintlock gun. See 2d Fusil. [Obs.]

2. A fuse. See Fuse, n.

3. A kind of match for lighting a pipe or cigar. (Railroad)

Defn: A small packet of explosive material with wire appendages
allowing it to be conveniently attached to a railroad track. It will
explode with a loud report when run over by a train, and is used to
provide a warning signal to the engineer.

FUSEE
Fu*see", n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: The track of a buck. Ainsworth.

FUSEE
Fu*see", n. Etym: [F. fusée a spindleful, fusee, LL. fusata, fr.
fusare to use a spindle, L. fusus spindle.]
(a) The cone or conical wheel of a watch or clock, designed to
equalize the power of the mainspring by having the chain from the
barrel which contains the spring wind in a spiral groove on the
surface of the cone in such a manner that the diameter of the cone at
the point where the chain acts may correspond with the degree of
tension of the spring.
(b) A similar wheel used in other machinery.

FUSEL; FUSEL OIL
Fu"sel, n., Fu"sel oil. Etym: [G. fusel bad liquor.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hot, acrid, oily liquid, accompanying many alcoholic liquors
(as potato whisky, corn whisky, etc.), as an undesirable ingredient,
and consisting of several of the higher alcohols and compound ethers,
but particularly of amyl alcohol; hence, specifically applied to amyl
alcohol.

FUSELAGE
Fu"se*lage, n. (Aëronautics)

Defn: An elongated body or frame of an aëroplane or flying machine;
sometimes, erroneously, any kind of frame or body. Many aëroplanes
have no fuselage, properly so called.

FUSE PLUG; FUZE PLUG
Fuse, or Fuze, plug .

1. (Ordnance)

Defn: A plug fitted to the fuse hole of a shell to hold the fuse.

2.  A fusible plug that screws into a receptacle, used as a fuse in
electric wiring.

FUSIBILITY
Fu"si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fusibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being fusible.

FUSIBLE
Fu"si*ble, a. Etym: [F. fusible. See Fuse, v. t.]

Defn: CapabIe of being melted or liquefied. Fusible metal, any alloy
of different metals capable of being easily fused, especially an
alloy of five parts of bismuth, three of lead, and two of tin, which
melts at a temperature below that of boiling water. Ure.
 -- Fusible plug (Steam Boiler), a piece of easily fusible alloy,
placed in one of the sheets and intended to melt and blow off the
steam in case of low water.

FUSIFORM
Fu"si*form, a. Etym: [L. fusus spindle + -form: cf. F. fusiforme.]

Defn: Shaped like a spindle; tapering at each end; as, a fusiform
root; a fusiform cell.

FUSIL
Fu"sil, a. Etym: [L. fusilis molten, fluid, fr. fundere, fusum, to
pour, cast. See Fuse, v. t.]

1. Capable of being melted or rendered fluid by heat; fusible. [R.]
"A kind of fusil marble" Woodward.

2. Running or flowing, as a liquid. [R.] "A fusil sea." J. Philips.

3. Formed by melting and pouring into a mold; cast; founded. [Obs.]
Milton.

FUSIL
Fu"sil, n. Etym: [F. fusil, LL. fosile a steel for kindling fire,
from L. focus hearth, fireplace, in LLL. fire. See Focus, and cf.
Fusee a firelock.]

Defn: A light kind of flintlock musket, formerly in use.

FUSIL
Fu"sil, n. Etym: [See 3d Fusee.] (Her.)

Defn: A bearing of a rhomboidal figure; -- named from its shape,
which resembles that of a spindle.

Note: It differs from a lozenge in being longer in proportion to its
width.

FUSILE
Fu"sile, a.

Defn: Same as Fusil, a.

FUSILEER; FUSILIER
Fu"sil*eer", Fu"sil*ier", n. Etym: [F. fusilier, fr. fusil.] (Mil.)
(a) Formerly, a soldier armed with a fusil. Hence, in the plural:
(b) A title now borne by some regiments and companies; as, "The Royal
Fusiliers," etc.

FUSILLADE
Fu"sil*lade", n. Etym: [F. fusillade, cf. It. fucilata. See Fusil a
firelock.] (Mil.)

Defn: A simultaneous discharge of firearms.

FUSILLADE
Fu"sil*lade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fusillader; p. pr. & vb. n.
Fusillading.]

Defn: To shoot down of shoot at by a simultaneous discharge of
firearms.

FUSION
Fu"sion, n. Etym: [L. fusio, fr. fundere, fusum to pour, melt: cf. F.
fusion. See Fuse, v. t., aud cf, Foison.]

1. The act or operation of melting or rendering fluid by heat; the
act of melting together; as, the fusion of metals.

2. The state of being melted or dissolved by heat; a state of
fluidity or flowing in consequence of heat; as, metals in fusion.

3. The union or blending together of things, as, melted together.
The universal fusion of races, languages, and customs . . . had
produced a corresponding fusion of creeds. C. Kingsley.
Watery fusion (Chem.) the melting of certain crystals by heat in
their own water of crystallization.

4. (Biol.)

Defn: The union, or binding together, of adjacent parts or tissues.

FUSOME
Fu"some, a. Etym: [AS. f to hasten, fr. f ready, prompt, quick; akin
to OS. f, OHG. funs, Icel. fuss willing; prob. from the root of E.
find.]

Defn: Handy; reat; handsome; notable. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

FUSS
Fuss, n. Etym: [Cf. Fusome.]

1. A tumult; a bustle; unnecessary or annoying ado about trifles.
Byron.
Zealously, assiduously, and with a minimum of fuss or noise Carlyle.

2. One who is unduly anxious about trifles. [R.]
I am a fuss and I don't deny it. W. D. Howell.

FUSS
Fuss, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Fussed; p. pr. & vb. n. Fussing.]

Defn: To be overbusy or unduly anxious about trifles; to make a
bustle or ado. Sir W. Scott.

FUSSILY
Fuss"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a fussy manner. Byron.

FUSSINESS
Fuss"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being fussy.

FUSSY
Fuss"y, a. [Compar. Fussier; superl Fussiest.]

Defn: Making a fuss; disposed to make an unnecessary ado about
trifles; overnice; fidgety.
Not at all fussy about his personal appearance. R. G. White.

FUST
Fust, n. Etym: [OF. fust, F. f, fr. L. fustis stick staff.] (Arch.)

Defn: The shaft of a column, or trunk of pilaster. Gwilt.

FUST
Fust, n. Etym: [OF. fust cask, F. f cask, taste or smell of the caak,
fustiness, cf. sentir le f to taste of the cask. See 1st Fust.]

Defn: A strong, musty smell; mustiness.

FUST
Fust, v. i.

Defn: To become moldy; to smell ill. [Obs.]

FUSTED
Fust"ed, a.

Defn: Moldy; ill-smelling. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

FUSTERIC
Fus"ter*ic, n.

Defn: The coloring matter of fustet. Ure.

FUSTET
Fus"tet, n. Etym: [F. fustet (cf. Sp. & Pg. fustete), LL. fustetus,
fr. L. fustis stick, in LL., tree, See 1st Fust, and cf. Fustic.]

Defn: The wood of the Rhus Cptinus or Venice sumach, a shrub of
Southern Europe, which yields a fine orange color, which, however, is
not durable without a mordant. Ure.

FUSTIAN
Fus"tian, n. Etym: [OE. fustan, fustian, OF. fustaine, F. futaine,
It. fustagno, fr. LL. fustaneum, fustanum; cf. Pr. fustani, Sp.
fustan. So called from Fustat, i. e., Cairo, where it was made.]

1. A kind of coarse twilled cotton or cotton and linen stuff,
including corduroy, velveteen, etc.

2. An inflated style of writing; a kind of writing in which high-
sounding words are used,' above the dignity of the thoughts or
subject; bombast.
Claudius . . . has run his description into the most wretched
fustian. Addison.

FUSTIAN
Fus"tian, a.

1. Made of fustian.

2. Pompous; ridiculously tumid; inflated; bombastic; as, fustian
history. Walpole.

FUSTIANIST
Fus"tian*ist, n.

Defn: A writer of fustian. [R.] Milton.

FUSTIC
Fus"tic, n. Etym: [F. fustoc, Sp. fustoc. Cf. Fustet.]

Defn: The wood of the Maclura tinctoria, a tree growing in the West
Indies, used in dyeing yellow; -- called also old fustic. [Written
also fustoc.]

Note: Other kinds of yellow wood are often called fustic; as that of
species of Xanthoxylum, and especially the Rhus Cotinus, which is
sometimes called young fustic to distinguish it from the Maclura. See
Fustet.

FUSTIGATE
Fus"ti*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. fustigare, fr. fustis stick. See 1st
Fust.]

Defn: To cudgel. [R.] Bailey.

FUSTIGATION
Fus"ti*ga"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fustigation.]

Defn: A punishment by beating with a stick or club; cudgeling.
This satire, composed of actual fustigation. Motley.

FUSTILARIAN
Fus"ti*la"ri*an, n. Etym: [From Fusty.]

Defn: A low fellow; a stinkard; a scoundrel. [Obs.] Shak.

FUSTILUG; FUSTILUGS
Fus"ti*lug` (, Fus"ti*lugs`, n. Etym: [Fusty + lug someting heavy, to
be drawn or carried.]

Defn: A gross, fat, unwieldy person. [Obs.] F. Junius.

FUSTINESS
Fus"ti*ness, n.

Defn: A fusty state or quality; moldiness; mustiness; an ill smell
from moldiness.

FUSTY
Fusty, a. [Compar. Fustier; superl Fustiest.] Etym: [See 2d Fust.]

1. Moldy; musty; ill-smelling; rank. "A fusty plebeians." Shak.

2. Moping. [Archaic]
A melancholy, fusty humor. Pepys.

FUSURE
Fu"sure, n. Etym: [L. fusura, fr. fundere, fusum. See Fuse, v. t.]

Defn: Act of fusing; fusion. [R.]

FUTCHEL
Futch"el, n.

Defn: The jaws between which the hinder end of a carriage tongue is
inserted. Knight.

FUTHORC; FUTHORK
Fu"thorc Fu"thork, n. [Written also futharc, futhark.]

Defn: The Runic alphabet; -- so called from the six letters f, u, þ
(th), o (or a), r, c (=k).

The letters are called Runes and the alphabet bears the name Futhorc
from the first six letters.
I. Taylor.

 The spelling futharc represents most accurately the original values
of these six Runic letters.

FUTILE
Fu"tile, a. Etym: [L. futilis that easily pours out, that easily lets
loose, vain, worthless, from the root of fundere to pour out: cf. F.
futile. See Fuse, v. t.]

1. Talkative; loquacious; tattling. [Obs.]
Talkers and futile persons. Bacon.

2. Of no importance; answering no useful end; useless; vain;
worthless. "Futile theories." I. Taylor.
His reasoning . . . was singularly futile. Macaulay.

FUTILELY
Fu"tile*ly, adv.

Defn: In a futile manner.

FUTILITY
Fu"til`i*ty, n. Etym: [L. futilitas: cf. F. futilité.]

1. The quality of being talkative; talkativeness; loquaciousness;
loquacity. [Obs.]

2. The quality of producing no valuable effect, or of coming to
nothing; uselessness.
The futility of this mode of philosophizing. Whewell.

FUTILOUS
Fu"til*ous, a.

Defn: Futile; trifling. [Obs.]

FUTTOCK
Fu"ttock, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupted fr. foothook.] (Naut.)

Defn: One of the crooked timbers which are scarfed together to form
the lower part of the compound rib of a vessel; one of the crooked
transverse timbers passing across and over the keel. Futtock plates
(Naut.), plates of iron to which the dead-eyes of the topmast rigging
are secured.
 -- Futtock shrouds, short iron shrouds leading from the upper part
of the lower mast or of the main shrouds to the edge of the top, or
through it, and connecting the topmast rigging with the lower mast.
Totten.

FUTURABLE
Fu"tur*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being future; possible to occur. [R.]
Not only to things future, but futurable. Fuller.

FUTURE
Fu"ture, a. Etym: [F. futur, L. futurus, used as fut. p. of esse to
be, but from the same root as E. be. See Be, v. i.]

Defn: That is to be or come hereafter; that will exist at any time
after the present; as, the next moment is future, to the present.
Future tense (Gram.), the tense or modification of a verb which
expresses a future act or event.

FUTURE
Fu"ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. futur. See Future, a.]

1. Time to come; time subsequent to the present (as, the future shall
be as the present); collectively, events that are to happen in time
to come. "Lay the future open." Shak.

2. The possibilities of the future; -- used especially of prospective
success or advancement; as, he had great future before him.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: A future tense. To deal in futures, to speculate on the future
values of merchandise or stocks. [Brokers' cant]

FUTURELESS
Fu"ture*less, a.

Defn: Without prospect of betterment in the future. W. D. Howells.

FUTURELY
Fu"ture*ly, adv.

Defn: In time to come. [Obs.] Raleigh.

FUTURISM
Fu"tur*ism, n. (Painting)

Defn: A movement or phase of post-impressionism (which see, below).

FUTURIST
Fu"tur*ist, n.

1. One whose chief interests are in what is to come; one who
anxiously, eagerly, or confidently looks forward to the future; an
expectant.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: One who believes or maintains that the fulfillment of the
prophecies of the Bible is to be in the future.

FUTURITIAL
Fu`tu*ri"tial, a.

Defn: Relating to what is to come; pertaining to futurity; future.
[R.]

FUTURITION
Fu`tu*ri"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. futurition.]

Defn: The state of being future; futurity. [R.]
Nothing . . . can have this imagined futurition, but as it is
decreed. Coleridge.

FUTURITY
Fu*tu"ri*ty, n.; pl. Futurities (.

1. State of being that is yet to come; future state.

2. Future time; time to come; the future.

3. Event to come; a future event.
All futurities are naked before the All-seeing Eye. South.

FUZE
Fuze, n.

Defn: A tube, filled with combustible matter, for exploding a shell,
etc. See Fuse, n. Chemical fuze, a fuze in which substances separated
until required for action are then brought into contact, and uniting
chemically, produce explosion.
 -- Concussion fuze, a fuze ignited by the striking of the
projectile.
 -- Electric fuze, a fuze which is ignited by heat or a spark
produced by an electric current.
 -- Friction fuze, a fuze which is ignited by the heat evolved by
friction.
 -- Percussion fuze, a fuze in which the ignition is produced by a
blow on some fulminating compound.
 -- Time fuze, a fuze adapted, either by its length or by the
character of its composition, to burn a certain time before producing
an explosion.

FUZZ
Fuzz, v. t.

Defn: To make drunk. [Obs.] Wood.

FUZZ
Fuzz, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. fuzzy that ravels (of silk or cotton),
D. voos spongy, fungous, G. faser filament. E. feaze to untwist.]

Defn: Fine, light particles or fibers; loose, volatile matter. Fuzz
ball, a kind of fungus or mushroom, which, when pressed, bursts and
scatters a fine dust; a puffball.

FUZZ
Fuzz, v. i.

Defn: To fly off in minute particles.

FUZZLE
Fuz"zle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. LG. fuseln to drink common liquor, fr.
fusel bad liquor.]

Defn: To make drunk; to intoxicate; to fuddle. [Obs.] Burton.

FUZZY
Fuzz"y, a. Etym: [See Fuzz, n.]

1. Not firmly woven; that ravels. [Written also fozy.] [Prov. Eng.]

2. Furnished with fuzz; having fuzz; like fuzz; as, the fuzzy skin of
a peach.

-FY
-fy. Etym: [Through French verbs in -fier, L. -ficare, akin to facere
to do, make. See Fact.]

Defn: A suffix signifying to make, to form into, etc.; as, acetify,
amplify, dandify, Frenchify, etc.

FY
Fy, interj. Etym: [See Fie, interj.]

Defn: A word which expresses blame, dislike, disapprobation,
abhorrence, or contempt. See Fie.

FYKE
Fyke, n. Etym: [D. fuik a bow net.]

Defn: A long bag net distended by hoops, into which fish can pass
easily, without being able to return; -- called also fyke net.
Cozzens.

FYLLOT
Fyl"lot, n. Etym: [Prov. fr. AS. fy, fierf, feówerf. See Four, and
Foot, n.]

Defn: A rebated cross, formerly used as a secret emblem, and a common
ornament. It is also called gammadion, and swastika.

FYRD; FYRDUNG
Fyrd, Fyr"dung (, n. Etym: [AS.; akin to E. fare, v. i.] (Old. Eng.
Hist.)

Defn: The military force of the whole nation, consisting of all men
able to bear arms.
The national fyrd or militia. J. R. Green.

FYTTE
Fytte, n.

Defn: See Fit a song. [Archaic]

G

1. G is the seventh letter of the English alphabet, and a vocal
consonant. It has two sounds; one simple, as in gave, go, gull; the
other compound (like that of j), as in gem, gin, dingy. See Guide to
Pronunciation, §§ 231-6, 155, 176, 178, 179, 196, 211, 246.

Note: The form of G is from the Latin, in the alphabet which it first
appeared as a modified form of C. The name is also from the Latin,
and probably comes to us through the French. Etymologically it is
most closely related to a c hard, k y, and w; as in corn, grain,
kernel; kin L. genus, Gr. garden, yard; drag, draw; also to ch and h;
as in get, prehensile; guest, host (an army); gall, choler; gust,
choose. See C.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: G is the name of the fifth tone of the natural or model scale;
-- called also sol by the Italians and French. It was also originally
used as the treble clef, and has gradually changed into the character
represented in the margin. See Clef. G# (G sharp) is a tone
intermediate between G and A.

GAB
Gab, n. Etym: [Cf. Gaff.] (Steam Engine)

Defn: The hook on the end of an eccentric rod opposite the strap.
See. Illust. of Eccentric.

GAB
Gab, n. Etym: [OE. gabbe gabble, mocking, fr. Icel. gabb mocking,
mockery, or OF. gab, gabe; perh. akin to E. gape, or gob. Cf. Gab, v.
i., Gibber.]

Defn: The mouth; hence, idle prate; chatter; unmeaning talk;
loquaciousness. [Colloq.] Gift of gab, facility of expression.
[Colloq.]

GAB
Gab, v. i. Etym: [OE. gabben to jest, lie, mock, deceive, fr. Icel.
gabba to mock, or OF. gaber. See 2d Gab, and cf. Gabble.]

1. To deceive; to lie. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To talk idly; to prate; to chatter. Holinshed.

GABARAGE
Gab"ar*age, n.

Defn: A kind of coarse cloth for packing goods. [Obs.]

GABARDINE; GABERDINE
Gab`ar*dine", Gab`er*dine" (, n. Etym: [Sp. gabardina; cf. It.
gavardina, OF. galvardine, calvardine, gavardine, galeverdine; perh.
akin to Sp. & OF. gaban a sort of cloak or coat for rainy weather, F.
caban great coat with a hood and sleeves, It. gabbano and perh. to E.
cabin.]

Defn: A coarse frock or loose upper garment formerly worn by Jews; a
mean dress. Shak.

GABBER
Gab"ber, n.

1. A liar; a deceiver. [Obs.]

2. One addicted to idle talk.

GABBLE
Gab"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gabbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Gabbling.]
Etym: [Freq. of gab. See Gab, v. i.]

1. To talk fast, or to talk without meaning; to prate; to jabber.
Shak.

2. To utter inarticulate sounds with rapidity; as, gabbling fowls.
Dryden.

GABBLE
Gab"ble, n.

1. Loud or rapid talk without meaning.
Forthwith a hideous gabble rises loud Among the builders. Milton.

2. Inarticulate sounds rapidly uttered; as of fowls.

GABBLER
Gab"bler, n.

Defn: One who gabbles; a prater.

GABBRO
Gab"bro, n. Etym: [It.] (Geol.)

Defn: A name originally given by the Italians to a kind of
serpentine, later to the rock called euphotide, and now generally
used for a coarsely crystalline, igneous rock consisting of lamellar
pyroxene (diallage) and labradorite, with sometimes chrysolite
(olivine gabbro).

GABEL
Ga"bel, n. Etym: [F. gabelle, LL. gabella, gabulum, gablum; of
uncertain origin. Cf.Gavel tribute.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A rent, service, tribute, custom, tax, impost, or duty; an
excise. Burrill.
He enables St. Peter to pay his gabel by the ministry of a fish. Jer.
Taylor.

GABELER
Ga"bel*er, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A collector of gabels or taxes.

GABELLE
Ga`belle", n. Etym: [F. See Gabel.]

Defn: A tax, especially on salt. [France] Brande & C.

GABELLEMAN
Ga*belle"man, n.

Defn: A gabeler. Carlyle.

GABERDINE
Gab`er*dine", n.

Defn: See Gabardine.

GABER-LUNZIE
Gab"er-lun`zie, n. Etym: [Gael. gabair talker + lunndair idler.]

Defn: A beggar with a wallet; a licensed beggar. [Scot.] Sir W.
Scott.

GABERT
Gab"ert, n. Etym: [Cf.F.gabare, Arm. kobar, gobar.]

Defn: A lighter, or vessel for inland navigation. [Scot.] Jamieson.

GABION
Ga"bi*on, n.Etym: [F., from It. gabbione a large cage, gabion, from
gabbia cage, L. cavea. See Cage.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A hollow cylinder of wickerwork, like a basket without a
bottom. Gabions are made of various sizes, and filled with earth in
building fieldworks to shelter men from an enemy's fire.

2. (Hydraul. Engin.)

Defn: An openwork frame, as of poles, filled with stones and sunk, to
assist in forming a bar dyke, etc., as in harbor improvement.

GABIONADE
Ga`bi*on*ade", n. Etym: [F. gabionnade.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A traverse made with gabions between guns or on their flanks,
protecting them from enfilading fire.

2. A structure of gabions sunk in lines, as a core for a sand bar in
harbor improvements.

GABIONAGE
Ga"bi*on*age, n. Etym: [F. gabionnage.] (Mil.)

Defn: The part of a fortification built of gabions.

GABIONED
Ga"bi*oned, p. a.

Defn: Furnished with gabions.

GABIONNADE
Ga`bion`nade", n.

Defn: See Gabionade.

GABLE
Ga"ble, n.

Defn: A cable. [Archaic] Chapman.

GABLE
Ga"ble, n. Etym: [OE. gable, gabil, F. gable, fr. LL. gabalum front
of a building, prob. of German or Scand. origin; cf. OHG. gibil, G.
giebel gable, Icel. gafl, Goth. gibla pinnacle; perh. akin to Gr.
cephalic, or to G. gabel fork, AS. geafl, E. gaffle, L. gabalus a
kind of gallows.] (Arch.)
(a) The vertical triangular portion of the end of a building, from
the level of the cornice or eaves to the ridge of the roof. Also, a
similar end when not triangular in shape, as of a gambrel roof and
the like. Hence:
(b) The end wall of a building, as distinguished from the front or
rear side.
(c) A decorative member having the shape of a triangular gable, such
as that above a Gothic arch in a doorway. Bell gable. See under Bell.
 -- Gable roof, a double sloping roof which forms a gable at each
end.
 -- Gable wall. Same as Gable (b).
 -- Gable window, a window in a gable.

GABLET
Ga"blet, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A small gable, or gable-shaped canopy, formed over a
tabernacle, niche, etc.

GABLOCK
Gab"lock, n. Etym: [See Gavelock.]

Defn: A false spur or gaff, fitted on the heel of a gamecock. Wright.

GABY
Ga"by, n. Etym: [Icel. gapi a rash, reckless man. Cf. Gafe.]

Defn: A simpleton; a dunce; a lout. [Colloq.]

GAD
Gad, n. Etym: [OE. gad, Icel. gaddr goad, sting; akin to Sw. gadd
sting, Goth. gazds, G. gerte switch. See Yard a measure.]

1. The point of a spear, or an arrowhead.

2. A pointed or wedge-shaped instrument of metal, as a steel wedge
used in mining, etc.
I will go get a leaf of brass, And with a gad of steel will write
these words. Shak.

3. A sharp-pointed rod; a goad.

4. A spike on a gauntlet; a gadling. Fairholt.

5. A wedge-shaped billet of iron or steel. [Obs.]
Flemish steel . . . some in bars and some in gads. Moxon.

6. A rod or stick, as a fishing rod, a measuring rod, or a rod used
to drive cattle with. [Prov. Eng. Local, U.S.] Halliwell. Bartlett.
Upon the gad, upon the spur of the moment; hastily. [Obs.] "All this
done upon the gad!" Shak.

GAD
Gad, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gadded; p. pr. & vb. n. Gadding.] Etym:
[Prob. fr. gad, n., and orig. meaning to drive about.]

Defn: To walk about; to rove or go about, without purpose; hence, to
run wild; to be uncontrolled. "The gadding vine." Milton.
Why gaddest thou about so much to change thy way Jer. ii. 36.

GADABOUT
Gad"a*bout`, n.

Defn: A gadder [Colloq.]

GADBEE
Gad"bee`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gadfly.

GADDER
Gad"der, n.

Defn: One who roves about idly, a rambling gossip.

GADDING
Gad"ding, a. & n.

Defn: Going about much, needlessly or without purpose.
Envy is a gadding passion, and walketh the streets. Bacon.
The good nuns would check her gadding tongue. Tennyson.
Gadding car, in quarrying, a car which carries a drilling machine so
arranged as to drill a line of holes.

GADDINGLY
Gad"ding*ly, adv.

Defn: In a roving, idle manner.

GADDISH
Gad"dish, a.

Defn: Disposed to gad.
 -- Gad"dish*nes, n. "Gaddishness and folly." Abp. Leighton.

GADE
Gade, n. Etym: [Cf. Cod the fish.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A small British fish (Motella argenteola) of the Cod family.
(b) A pike, so called at Moray Firth; -- called also gead. [Prov.
Eng.]

GADERE; GADRE
Gad"er*e, Gad"re (, v. t. & i.

Defn: To gather. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GADFLY
Gad"fly`, n.; pl. Gadflies. Etym: [Gad + fly.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any dipterous insect of the genus Oestrus, and allied genera of
botflies.

Note: The sheep gadfly (Oestrus ovis) deposits its young in the
nostrils of sheep, and the larvæ develop in the frontal sinuses. The
common species which infests cattle (Hypoderma bovis) deposits its
eggs upon or in the skin where the larvæ or bots live and produce
sores called wormels. The gadflies of the horse produce the
intestinal parasites called bots. See Botfly, and Bots. The true
horseflies are often erroneously called gadflies, and the true
gadflies are sometimes incorrectly called breeze flies. Gadfly petrel
(Zoöl.), one of several small petrels of the genus Oestrelata.

GADHELIC
Gadhel"ic (gal"îk), a. Etym: [See Gaelic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to that division of the Celtic languages,
which includes the Irish, Gaelic, and Manx. J. Peile.

GADIC
Gad"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the cod (Gadus); -- applied to
an acid obtained from cod-liver oil, viz., gadic acid.

GADITANIAN
Gad`i*ta`ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Gaditanus, fr. Gades Cadiz.]

Defn: Of or relating to Cadiz, in Spain.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Cadiz.

GADLING
Gad"ling, n. Etym: [Gad, n. + -ling.] (Mediæval Armor) [R.]

Defn: See Gad, n., 4.

GADLING
Gad"ling, a. Etym: [See Gad, v. i.]

Defn: Gadding about. [Obs.]

GADLING
Gad"ling, n.

Defn: A roving vagabond. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

GADMAN
Gadman, n.

Defn: A gadsman.

GADOID
Ga"doid, a. Etym: [NL. gadus cod + -oid: cf. F. gadoïde gadoid, Gr.
gade.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the family of fishes (Gadidæ) which
includes the cod, haddock, and hake.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Gadidæ. [Written also gadid.]

GADOLINIA
Gad`o*lin"i*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Gadolinite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare earth, regarded by some as an oxide of the supposed
element gadolinium, by others as only a mixture of the oxides of
yttrium, erbium, ytterbium, etc.

GADOLINIC
Gad`o*lin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to or containing gadolinium.

GADOLINITE
Gad"o*lin*ite, n. Etym: [Named after Gadolin, a Russian chemist.]
(Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a nearly black color and vitreous luster, and
consisting principally of the silicates of yttrium, cerium, and iron.

GADOLINIUM
Gad`o*lin"i*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Gadolinite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed rare metallic element, with a characteristic
spectrum, found associated with yttrium and other rare metals. Its
individuality and properties have not yet been determined.

GADSMAN
Gads"man, n.

Defn: One who uses a gad or goad in driving.

GADUIN
Gad"u*in, n.Etym: [NL. gadus codfish.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow or brown amorphous substance, of indifferent nature,
found in cod-liver oil.

GADWALL
Gad"wall, n. Etym: [Gad to walk about + well.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large duck (Anas strepera), valued as a game bird, found in
the northern parts of Europe and America; -- called also gray duck.
[Written also gaddwell.]

GAEKWAR
Gaek"war, n. [Also Gaikwar, Guicowar.] [Marathi gaekwar, prop., a
cowherd.]

Defn: The title of the ruling Prince of Baroda, in Gujarat, in
Bombay, India.

GAEL
Gael, n.sing. & pl. Etym: [See Gaelic.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: A Celt or the Celts of the Scotch Highlands or of Ireland; now
esp., a Scotch Highlander of Celtic origin.

GAELIC
Gael"ic, a. Etym: [Gael. Gàidhealach, Gaelach, from Gàidheal, Gael, a
Scotch Highlander.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Gael, esp. to the Celtic Highlanders of
Scotland; as, the Gaelic language.

GAELIC
Gael"ic, n. Etym: [Gael. Gaelig, Gàilig.]

Defn: The language of the Gaels, esp. of the Highlanders of Scotland.
It is a branch of the Celtic.

GAFF
Gaff, n. Etym: [OE. gaffe, F. gaffe an iron hook with which seamen
pull great fishes into their ships; cf. Ir. gaf, gafa hook; perh.
akin to G. gabel fork, Skr. gabhasti. CF. Gaffle, Gable.]

1. A barbed spear or a hook with a handle, used by fishermen in
securing heavy fish.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The spar upon which the upper edge of a fore-and-aft sail is
extended.

3. Same as Gaffle, 1. Wright.

GAFF
Gaff, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gaffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gaffing.]

Defn: To strike with a gaff or barbed spear; to secure by means of a
gaff; as, to gaff a salmon.

GAFFER
Gaf"fer, n. Etym: [Possibly contr. fr. godfather; but prob. fr.
gramfer for grandfather. Cf. Gammer.]

1. An old fellow; an aged rustic.
Go to each gaffer and each goody. Fawkes.

Note: Gaffer was originally a respectful title, now degenerated into
a term of familiarity or contempt when addressed to an aged man in
humble life.

2. A foreman or overseer of a gang of laborers. [Prov. Eng.]

GAFFLE
Gaf"fle, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. geafl fork, LG., D., Sw., & Dan. gaffel,
G. gabel, W. gafl, Ir. & Gael. gabhal. Cf. Gaff.]

1. An artificial spur or gaff for gamecocks.

2. A lever to bend crossbows.

GAFF-TOPSAIL
Gaff`-top"sail, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A small triangular sail having its foot extended upon the gaff
and its luff upon the topmast.

GAG
Gag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Gagging.] Etym:
[Prob. fr. W. cegio to choke or strangle, fr. ceg mouth, opening,
entrance.]

1. To stop the mouth of, by thrusting sometimes in, so as to hinder
speaking; hence, to silence by authority or by violence; not to allow
freedom of speech to. Marvell.
The time was not yet come when eloquence was to be gagged, and reason
to be hood winked. Maccaulay.

2. To pry or hold open by means of a gag.
Mouths gagged to such a wideness. Fortescue (Transl. ).

3. To cause to heave with nausea.

GAG
Gag, v. i.

1. To heave with nausea; to retch.

2. To introduce gags or interpolations. See Gag, n., 3. [Slang]
Cornill Mag.

GAG
Gag, n.

1. Sometimes thrust into the mouth or throat to hinder speaking.

2. A mouthful that makes one retch; a choking bit; as, a gag of
mutton fat. Lamb.

3. A speech or phrase interpolated offhand by an actor on the stage
in his part as written, usually consisting of some seasonable or
local allusion. [Slang] Gag rein (Harness), a rein for drawing the
bit upward in the horse's mouth.
 -- Gag runner (Harness), a loop on the throat latch guiding the gag
rein.

GAGATE
Gag"ate (; 48), n. Etym: [L. gagates. See Jet a black mineral.]

Defn: Agate. [Obs.] Fuller.

GAGE
Gage, n. Etym: [F. gage, LL. gadium, wadium; of German origin; cf.
Goth. wadi, OHG. wetti, weti, akin to E. wed. See Wed, and cf. Wage,
n.]

1. A pledge or pawn; something laid down or given as a security for
the performance of some act by the person depositing it, and
forfeited by nonperformance; security.
Nor without gages to the needy lend. Sandys.

2. A glove, cap, or the like, cast on the ground as a challenge to
combat, and to be taken up by the accepter of the challenge; a
challenge; a defiance. "There I throw my gage." Shak.

GAGE
Gage, n. Etym: [So called because an English family named Gage
imported the greengage from France, in the last century.]

Defn: A variety of plum; as, the greengage; also, the blue gage,
frost gage, golden gage, etc., having more or less likeness to the
greengage. See Greengage.

GAGE
Gage, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gaged; p. pr & vb. n. Gaging.] Etym: [Cf.
F. gager. See Gage, n., a pledge.]

1. To give or deposit as a pledge or security for some act; to wage
or wager; to pawn or pledge. [Obs.]
A moiety competent Was gaged by our king. Shak.

2. To bind by pledge, or security; to engage.
Great debts Wherein my time, sometimes too prodigal, Hath left me
gaged. Shak.

GAGE
Gage, n.

Defn: A measure or standart. See Gauge, n.

GAGE
Gage, v. t.

Defn: To measure. See Gauge, v. t.
You shall not gage me By what we do to-night. Shak.

GAGER
Ga"ger, n.

Defn: A measurer. See Gauger.

GAGGER
Gag"ger, n.

1. One who gags.

2. (Founding)

Defn: A piece of iron imbedded in the sand of a mold to keep the sand
in place.

GAGGLE
Gag"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gaggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Gaggling.]
Etym: [Of imitative origin; cf. D. gaggelen, gagelen, G. gackeln,
gackern, MHG. g, E. giggle, cackle.]

Defn: To make a noise like a goose; to cackle. Bacon.

GAGGLE
Gag"gle, n. Etym: [Cf. Gaggle v. i.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A flock of wild geese. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

GAG LAW
Gag law. (Parliamentary Law)

Defn: A law or ruling prohibiting proper or free debate, as in
closure. [Colloq. or Cant]

GAGTOOTH
Gag"tooth`, n.; pl. Gagteeth (.

Defn: A projecting tooth. [Obs.]

GAG-TOOTHED
Gag"-toothed", a.

Defn: Having gagteeth. [Obs.]

GAHNITE
Gahn"ite, n. Etym: [Named after Gahn, a Swedish chemist.] (Min.)

Defn: Zinc spinel; automolite.

GAIDIC
Ga*id"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to hypogeic acid; -- applied to an acid obtained
from hypogeic acid.

GAIETY
Gai"e*ty, n.

Defn: Same as Gayety.

GAILER
Gail"er, n.

Defn: A jailer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GAILLARD
Gail`lard", a. Etym: [F. See Galliard.]

Defn: Gay; brisk; merry; galliard. Chaucer.

GAILLIARDE
Gail*liarde", n. Etym: [See Galliard a dance.]

Defn: A lively French and Italian dance.

GAILY
Gai"ly, adv. Etym: [From Gay.]

Defn: Merrily; showily. See gaily.

GAIN
Gain, n. Etym: [Cf. W. gan a mortise.] (Arch.)

Defn: A square or beveled notch cut out of a girder, binding joist,
or other timber which supports a floor beam, so as to receive the end
of the floor beam.

GAIN
Gain, a. Etym: [OE. gein, gain, good, near, quick; cf. Icel. gegn
ready, serviceable, and gegn, adv., against, opposite. CF. Ahain.]

Defn: Convenient; suitable; direct; near; handy; dexterous; easy;
profitable; cheap; respectable. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

GAIN
Gain, n. Etym: [OE. gain, gein, ga, gain, advantage, Icel. gagn; akin
to Sw. gagn, Dan. gavn, cf. Goth. gageigan to gain. The word was
prob. influenced by F. gain gain, OF. gaain. Cf. Gain, v. t.]

1. That which is gained, obtained, or acquired, as increase, profit,
advantage, or benefit; -- opposed to loss.
But what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for Christ.
Phil. iii. 7.
Godliness with contentment is great gain. 1 Tim. vi. 6.
Every one shall share in the gains. Shak.

2. The obtaining or amassing of profit or valuable possessions;
acquisition; accumulation. "The lust of gain." Tennyson.

GAIN
Gain, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gained; p. pr. & vb. n. Gaining.] Etym:
[From gain, n. but. prob. influenced by F. gagner to earn, gain, OF.
gaaignier to cultivate, OHG. weidin, weidinen to pasture, hunt, fr.
weida pasturage, G. weide, akin to Icel. vei hunting, AS. wa, cf. L.
venari to hunt, E. venison. See Gain, n., profit.]

1. To get, as profit or advantage; to obtain or acquire by effort or
labor; as, to gain a good living.
What is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose
his own soul Matt. xvi. 26.
To gain dominion, or to keep it gained. Milton.
For fame with toil we gain, but lose with ease. Pope.

2. To come off winner or victor in; to be successful in; to obtain by
competition; as, to gain a battle; to gain a case at law; to gain a
prize.

3. To draw into any interest or party; to win to one's side; to
conciliate.
If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. Matt. xviii. 15.
To gratify the queen, and gained the court. Dryden.

4. To reach; to attain to; to arrive at; as, to gain the top of a
mountain; to gain a good harbor.
Forded Usk and gained the wood. Tennyson.

5. To get, incur, or receive, as loss, harm, or damage. [Obs. or
Ironical]
Ye should . . . not have loosed from Crete, and to have gained this
harm and loss. Acts xxvii. 21.
Gained day, the calendar day gained in sailing eastward around the
earth.
 -- To gain ground, to make progress; to advance in any undertaking;
to prevail; to acquire strength or extent.
 -- To gain over, to draw to one's party or interest; to win over.
 -- To gain the wind (Naut.), to reach the windward side of another
ship.

Syn.
 -- To obtain; acquire; get; procure; win; earn; attain; achieve. See
Obtain.
 -- To Gain, Win. Gain implies only that we get something by
exertion; win, that we do it in competition with others. A person
gains knowledge, or gains a prize, simply by striving for it; he wins
a victory, or wins a prize, by taking it in a struggle with others.

GAIN
Gain, v. i.

Defn: To have or receive advantage or profit; to acquire gain; to
grow rich; to advance in interest, health, or happiness; to make
progress; as, the sick man gains daily.
Thou hast greedily gained of thy neighbors by extortion. Ezek. xxii.
12.
Gaining twist, in rifled firearms, a twist of the grooves, which
increases regularly from the breech to the muzzle. To gain on or
upon. (a) To encroach on; as, the ocean gains on the land. (b) To
obtain influence with. (c) To win ground upon; to move faster than,
as in a race or contest. (d) To get the better of; to have the
advantage of.
The English have not only gained upon the Venetians in the Levant,
but have their cloth in Venice itself. Addison.
My good behavior had so far gained on the emperor, that I began to
conceive hopes of liberty. Swift.

GAINABLE
Gain"a*ble, a. Etym: [CF. F. gagnable. See Gain, v. t.]

Defn: Capable of being obtained or reached. Sherwood.

GAINAGE
Gain"age (, 48), n. Etym: [OF. gaignage pasturage, crop, F. gaignage
pasturage. See Gain, v. t.] (O. Eng. Law)
(a) The horses, oxen, plows, wains or wagons and implements for
carrying on tillage.
(b) The profit made by tillage; also, the land itself. Bouvier.

GAINER
Gain"er, n.

Defn: One who gains. Shak.

GAINFUL
Gain"ful, a.

Defn: Profitable; advantageous; lucrative. "A gainful speculation."
Macaulay.
 -- Gain"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Gain"ful*ness, n.

GAINGIVING
Gain"giv`ing, n. Etym: [See Again, and Give.]

Defn: A misgiving. [Obs.]

GAINLESS
Gain"less, a.

Defn: Not producing gain; unprofitable. Hammond.
 -- Gain"less/ness, n.

GAINLY
Gain"ly, adv. Etym: [See Gain, a.]

Defn: Handily; readily; dexterously; advantageously. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

GAINPAIN
Gain"pain`, n.Etym: [F. gagner to gain + pain bread.]

Defn: Bread-gainer; -- a term applied in the Middle Ages to the sword
of a hired soldier.

GAINSAY
Gain`say" ( or ; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gainsaid ( or ); p. pr. &
vb. n. Gainsaying.] Etym: [OE. geinseien, ageinseien. See Again, and
Say to utter.]

Defn: To contradict; to deny; to controvert; to dispute; to forbid.
I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries shall
not be able to gainsay nor resist. Luke xxi. 15.
The just gods gainsay That any drop thou borrow'dst from thy mother,
My sacred aunt, should by my mortal sword Be drained. Shak.

GAINSAYER
Gain`say"er, n.

Defn: One who gainsays, contradicts, or denies. "To convince the
gainsayers." Tit. i. 9.

GAINSBOROUGH HAT
Gains"borough hat.

Defn: A woman's broad-brimmed hat of a form thought to resemble those
shown in portraits by Thomas Gainsborough, the English artist (1727-
88).

GAINSOME
Gain"some, a.

1. Gainful.

2. Prepossessing; well-favored. [Obs.] Massinger.

'GAINST; GAINST
Gainst, prep.

Defn: A contraction of Against.

GAINSTAND
Gain"stand`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gainstood; p. pr. & vb. n.
gainstanding.] Etym: [See Again, and Stand.]

Defn: To withstand; to resist. [Obs.]
Durst . . . gainstand the force of so many enraged desires. Sir P.
Sidney.

GAINSTRIVE
Gain"strive`, v. t. & i. Etym: [See Again, and Strive.]

Defn: To strive or struggle against; to withstand. [Obs.] Spenser.

GAIRFOWL
Gair"fowl`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Garefowl.

GAIRISH; GAIRISHLY; GAIRISHNESS
Gair"ish, a., Gair"ish*ly, adv., Gair"ishness, n.

Defn: Same as Garish, Garishly, Garishness.

GAIT
Gait, n. Etym: [See Gate a way.]

1. A going; a walk; a march; a way.
Good gentleman, go your gait, and let poor folks pass. Shak.

2. Manner of walking or stepping; bearing or carriage while moving.
'T is Cinna; I do know him by his gait. Shak.

GAITED
Gait"ed, a.

Defn: Having (such) a gait; -- used in composition; as, slow-gaited;
heavy-gaited.

GAITER
Gait"er, n. Etym: [F. guêtre, cf. Armor. gweltren; or perh. of German
origin, and akin to E. wear, v.]

1. A covering of cloth or leather for the ankle and instep, or for
the whole leg from the knee to the instep, fitting down upon the
shoe.

2. A kind of shoe, consisting of cloth, and covering the ankle.

GAITER
Gai"ter, v. t.

Defn: To dress with gaiters.

GAITRE; GAYTRE
Gai"tre, Gay"tre (, n. Etym: [OE. Cf. Gatten tree.]

Defn: The dogwood tree. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GALA
Ga"la, n. Etym: [F. gala show, pomp, fr. It. gala finery, gala; of
German origin. See Gallant.]

Defn: Pomp, show, or festivity. Macaulay. Gala day, a day of mirth
and festivity; a holiday.

GALACTA-GOGUE
Ga*lac"ta-gogue, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An agent exciting secretion of milk.

GALACTIC
Ga*lac"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. Galaxy, and cf. Lactic.]

1. Of or pertaining to milk; got from milk; as, galactic acid.

2. Of or pertaining to the galaxy or Milky Way. Galactic circle
(Astron.), the great circle of the heavens, to which the course of
the galaxy most nearly conforms. Herschel.
 -- Galactic poles, the poles of the galactic circle.

GALACTIN
Ga*lac"tin, n. Etym: [Gr. Lactin.] (Chem.)
(a) An amorphous, gelatinous substance containing nitrogen, found in
milk and other animal fluids. It resembles peptone, and is variously
regarded as a coagulating or emulsifying agent.
(b) A white waxy substance found in the sap of the South American cow
tree (Galactodendron).
(c) An amorphous, gummy carbohydrate resembling gelose, found in the
seeds of leguminous plants, and yielding on decomposition several
sugars, including galactose.

GALACTODENSIMETER
Ga*lac`to*den*sim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. densimeter.]

Defn: Same as Galactometer.

GALACTOMETER
Gal`ac*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. galactomètre. Cf.
Lactometer.]

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the quality of milk (i.e., its
richness in cream) by determining its specific gravity; a lactometer.

GALACTOPHAGIST
Gal`ac*toph"a*gist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who eats, or subsists on, milk.

GALACTOPHAGOUS
Gal`ac*toph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. galactophade.]

Defn: Feeding on milk.

GALACTOPHOROUS
Gal`ac*toph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Gr. galactophore. Cf. Lactiferous.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Milk-carrying; lactiferous; -- applied to the ducts of mammary
glands.

GALACTOPOIETIC
Ga*lac`to*poi*et"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Increasing the flow of milk; milk-producing.
 -- n. A galactopoietic substance.

GALACTOSE
Ga*lac"tose, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline sugar, C6H12O6, isomeric with dextrose,
obtained by the decomposition of milk sugar, and also from certain
gums. When oxidized it forms mucic acid. Called also lactose (though
it is not lactose proper).

GALAGE
Ga*lage", n. (Obs.)

Defn: See Galoche. Spenser.

GALAGO
Ga*la"go, n.; pl. Galagos. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of African lemurs, including numerous species.

Note: The grand galago (Galago crassicaudata) is about the size of a
cat; the mouse galago (G. murinus)is about the size of a mouse.

GALANGA; GALANGAL
Ga*lan"ga, Ga*lan"gal, n.Etym: [OE. galingale, OF. galingal,
garingal, F. galanga (cf. Sp. galanga), prob. fr. Ar. khalanj. ]

Defn: The pungent aromatic rhizome or tuber of certain East Indian or
Chinese species of Alpinia (A. Galanga and A. officinarum) and of the
Kæmpferia Galanga), -- all of the Ginger family.

GALANTINE
Gal"an*tine ( or ), n. Etym: [F. galantine.]

Defn: A dish of veal, chickens, or other white meat, freed from
bones, tied up, boiled, and served cold. Smart.

GALAPEE TREE
Gal"a*pee` tree", (Bot.)

Defn: The West Indian Sciadophyllum Brownei, a tree with very large
digitate leaves.

GALATEA
Gal`a*te"a, n. [After Galatea, a British man-of-war, the material
being used for children's sailor suits.]

Defn: A kind of striped cotton fabric, usually of superior quality
and striped with blue or red on white.

GALATIAN
Ga*la"tian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Galatia or its inhabitants.
 -- A native or inhabitant of Galatia, in Asia Minor; a descendant of
the Gauls who settled in Asia Minor.

GALAXY
Gal"ax*y, n.; pl. Galaxies. Etym: [F. galaxie, L. galaxias, fr. Gr.
lac. CF. Lacteal.]

1. (Astron.)

Defn: The Milky Way; that luminous tract, or belt, which is seen at
night stretching across the heavens, and which is composed of
innumerable stars, so distant and blended as to be distinguishable
only with the telescope. The term has recently been used for remote
clusters of stars. Nichol.

2. A splendid assemblage of persons or things.

GALBAN; GALBANUM
Gal"ban, Gal"ba*num, n. Etym: [L. galbanum, Gr. klekb'n: cf. F.
galbanum.]

Defn: A gum resin exuding from the stems of certain Asiatic
umbelliferous plants, mostly species of Ferula. The Bubon Galbanum of
South Africa furnishes an inferior kind of galbanum. It has an acrid,
bitter taste, a strong, unpleasant smell, and is used for medical
purposes, also in the arts, as in the manufacture of varnish.

GALBE
Galbe, n. [F.; OF. garbe, fr. It. garbo grace, gracefulness. See Garb
dress.] (Art)

Defn: The general outward form of any solid object, as of a column or
a vase.

GALE
Gale, n. Etym: [Prob. of Scand.. origin; cf. Dan. gal furious, Icel.
galinn, cf. Icel. gala to sing, AS. galan to sing, Icel. galdr song,
witchcraft, AS. galdor charm, sorcery, E. nightingale; also, Icel.
gjla gust of wind, gola breeze. Cf. Yell.]

1. A strong current of air; a wind between a stiff breeze and a
hurricane. The most violent gales are called tempests.

Note: Gales have a velocity of from about eighteen ("moderate") to
about eighty ("very heavy") miles an our. Sir. W. S. Harris.

2. A moderate current of air; a breeze.
A little gale will soon disperse that cloud. Shak.
And winds of gentlest gale Arabian odors fanned From their soft
wings. Milton.

3. A state of excitement, passion, or hilarity.
The ladies, laughing heartily, were fast getting into what, in New
England, is sometimes called a gale. Brooke (Eastford).
Topgallant gale (Naut.), one in which a ship may carry her topgallant
sails.

GALE
Gale, v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: To sale, or sail fast.

GALE
Gale, n Etym: [OE. gal. See Gale wind.]

Defn: A song or story. [Obs.] Toone.

GALE
Gale, v. i. Etym: [AS. galan. See 1st Gale.]

Defn: To sing. [Obs.] "Can he cry and gale." Court of Love.

GALE
Gale, n Etym: [AS. gagel, akin to D. gagel.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Myrica, growing in wet places, and
strongly resembling the bayberry. The sweet gale (Myrica Gale) is
found both in Europe and in America.

GALE
Gale, n. Etym: [Cf. Gabel.]

Defn: The payment of a rent or annuity. [Eng.] Mozley & W. Gale day,
the day on which rent or interest is due.

GALEA
Ga"le*a, n.Etym: [L., a helmet. ]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The upper lip or helmet-shaped part of a labiate flower.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A kind of bandage for the head.

3. (Pathol.)

Defn: Headache extending all over the head.

4. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of fossil echini, having a vaulted, helmet-shaped
shell.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The anterior, outer process of the second joint of the maxillae
in certain insects.

GALEAS
Gal"e*as, n.

Defn: See Galleass.

GALEATE; GALEATED
Ga"le*ate, Ga"le*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. galeatus, p.p. of galeare
helmet.]

1. Wearing a helmet; protected by a helmet; covered, as with a
helmet.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Helmeted; having a helmetlike part, as a crest, a flower, etc.;
helmet-shaped.

GALEI
Ga"le*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Galeus, name of one genus, fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: That division of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sharks.

GALENA
Ga*le"na, n.Etym: [L. galena lead ore, dross that remains after
melting lead: cf. F. galène sulphide of lead ore, antidote to prison,
stillness of the sea, calm, tranquility.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy or antidose for poison; theriaca. [Obs.] Parr.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Lead sulphide; the principal ore of lead. It is of a bluish
gray color and metallic luster, and is cubic in crystallization and
cleavage. False galena. See Blende.

GALENIC; GALENICAL
Ga*len"ic, Ga*len"ic*al (, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, galena.

GALENIC; GALENICAL
Ga*len"ic, Ga*len"ic*al, an. Etym: [From Galen, the physician.]

Defn: Relating to Galen or to his principles and method of treating
diseases. Dunglison. Galenic pharmacy, that branch of pharmacy which
relates to the preparation of medicines by infusion, decoction, etc.,
as distinguished from those which are chemically prepared.

GALENISM
Ga"len*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines of Galen.

GALENIST
Ga*len*ist, n.

Defn: A follower of Galen.

GALENITE
Ga*le"nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Galena; lead ore.

GALEOPITHECUS
Ga`le`o*pi*the"cus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of flying Insectivora, formerly called flying lemurs.
See Colugo.

GALERICULATE
Gal`er*ic"u*late, a. Etym: [L. galericulum, dim. of galerum a hat or
cap, fr. galea helmet.]

Defn: Covered as with a hat or cap. Smart.

GALERITE
Gal"er*ite, n. Etym: [L. galerum a hat, cap: cf. F. galérite.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: A cretaceous fossil sea urchin of the genus Galerites.

GALICIAN
Ga*li"cian, a. Etym: [Cf. Sp. Galiciano, Gallego, fr. L. Gallaecus,
Gallaicus, fr. Gallaeci a people in Western Spain.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Galicia, in Spain, or to Galicia, the
kingdom of Austrian Poland.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Galicia in Spain; -- called also Gallegan.

GALILEAN
Gal`i*le"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Galileo; as, the Galilean telescope. See
Telescope.

GALILEAN
Gal`i*le"an, a. Etym: [L. Galilaeus, fr. Galilaea Galilee, Gr.
galiléen.]

Defn: Of or relating to Galilee.

GALILEAN
Gal`i*le"an, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Galilee, the northern province of
Palestine under the Romans.

2. (Jewish Hist.)

Defn: One of the party among the Jews, who opposed the payment of
tribute to the Romans; -- called also Gaulonite.

3. A Christian in general; -- used as a term of reproach by
Mohammedans and Pagans. Byron.

GALILEE
Gal"i*lee, n. Etym: [Supposed to have been so termed in allusion to
the scriptural "Galilee of the Gentiles." cf. OF. galilée.] (Arch.)

Defn: A porch or waiting room, usually at the west end of an abbey
church, where the monks collected on returning from processions,
where bodies were laid previous to interment, and where women were
allowed to see the monks to whom they were related, or to hear divine
service. Also, frequently applied to the porch of a church, as at Ely
and Durham cathedrals. Gwilt.

GALIMATIAS
Gal`i*ma"tias, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Nonsense; gibberish; confused and unmeaning talk; confused
mixture.
Her dress, like her talk, is a galimatias of several countries.
Walpole.

GALINGALE
Gal"in*gale, n. Etym: [See Galangal.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the Sedge family (Cyperus longus) having aromatic
roots; also, any plant of the same genus. Chaucer.
Meadow, set with slender galingale. Tennyson.

GALIOT
Gal"i*ot, n. Etym: [OE. galiote, F. galiote. See Galley.] (Naut.)
(a) A small galley, formerly used in the Mediterranean, built mainly
for speed. It was moved both by sails and oars, having one mast, and
sixteen or twenty seats for rowers.
(b) A strong, light-draft, Dutch merchant vessel, carrying a mainmast
and a mizzenmast, and a large gaff mainsail.

GALIPOT
Gal"i*pot, n. Etym: [F. galipot; cf. OF. garipot the wild pine or
pitch tree.]

Defn: An impure resin of turpentine, hardened on the outside of pine
trees by the spontaneous evaporation of its essential oil. When
purified, it is called yellow pitch, white pitch, or Burgundy pitch.

GALL
Gall, n.Etym: [OE. galle, gal, AS. gealla; akin to D. gal, OS. & OHG.
galla, Icel. gall, SW. galla, Dan. galde, L. fel, Gr. yellow. Yellow,
and cf. Choler]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: The bitter, alkaline, viscid fluid found in the gall bladder,
beneath the liver. It consists of the secretion of the liver, or
bile, mixed with that of the mucous membrane of the gall bladder.

2. The gall bladder.

3. Anything extremely bitter; bitterness; rancor.
He hath . . . compassed me with gall and travail. Lam. iii. 5.
Comedy diverted without gall. Dryden.

4. Impudence; brazen assurance. [Slang] Gall bladder (Anat.), the
membranous sac, in which the bile, or gall, is stored up, as secreted
by the liver; the cholecystis. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus.
 -- Gall duct, a duct which conveys bile, as the cystic duct, or the
hepatic duct.
 -- Gall sickness, a remitting bilious fever in the Netherlands.
Dunglison.
 -- Gall of the earth (Bot.), an herbaceous composite plant with
variously lobed and cleft leaves, usually the Prenanthes serpentaria.

GALL
Gall, n. Etym: [F. galle, noix de galle, fr. L. galla.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An excrescence of any form produced on any part of a plant by
insects or their larvae. They are most commonly caused by small
Hymenoptera and Diptera which puncture the bark and lay their eggs in
the wounds. The larvae live within the galls. Some galls are due to
aphids, mites, etc. See Gallnut.

Note: The galls, or gallnuts, of commerce are produced by insects of
the genus Cynips, chiefly on an oak (Quercus infectoria or
Lusitanica) of Western Asia and Southern Europe. They contain much
tannin, and are used in the manufacture of that article and for
making ink and a black dye, as well as in medicine. Gall insect
(Zoöl.), any insect that produces galls.
 -- Gall midge (Zoöl.), any small dipterous insect that produces
galls.
 -- Gall oak, the oak (Quercus infectoria) which yields the galls of
commerce.
 -- Gall of glass, the neutral salt skimmed off from the surface of
melted crown glass;- called also glass gall and sandiver. Ure.-- Gall
wasp. (Zoöl.) See Gallfly.

GALL
Gall, v. t. (Dyeing)

Defn: To impregnate with a decoction of gallnuts. Ure.

GALL
Gall, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Galled; p. pr. & vb. n. Galling.] Etym:
[OE. gallen; cf. F. galer to scratch, rub, gale scurf, scab, G. galle
a disease in horses' feet, an excrescence under the tongue of horses;
of uncertain origin. Cf. Gall gallnut.]

1. To fret and wear away by friction; to hurt or break the skin of by
rubbing; to chafe; to injure the surface of by attrition; as, a
saddle galls the back of a horse; to gall a mast or a cable.
I am loth to gall a new-healed wound. Shak.

2. To fret; to vex; as, to be galled by sarcasm.
They that are most galled with my folly, They most must laugh. Shak.

3. To injure; to harass; to annoy; as, the troops were galled by the
shot of the enemy.
In our wars against the French of old, we used to gall them with our
longbows, at a greater distance than they could shoot their arrows.
Addison.

GALL
Gall, v. i.

Defn: To scoff; to jeer. [R.] Shak.

GALL
Gall, n.

Defn: A wound in the skin made by rubbing.

GALLANT
Gal"lant, a. Etym: [F. gallant, prop. p. pr. of OF. galer to rejoice,
akin to OF. gale amusement, It. gala ornament; of German origin; cf.
OHG. geil merry, luxuriant, wanton, G. geil lascivious, akin to AS. g
wanton, wicked, OS. g merry, Goth. gailjan to make to rejoice, or
perh. akin to E. weal. See Gala, Galloon.]

1. Showy; splendid; magnificent; gay; well-dressed.
The town is built in a very gallant place. Evelyn.
Our royal, good and gallant ship. Shak.

2. Noble in bearing or spirit; brave; high-spirited; courageous;
heroic; magnanimous; as, a gallant youth; a gallant officer.
That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds. Shak.
The gay, the wise, the gallant, and the grave. Waller.

Syn.
 -- Gallant, Courageous, Brave. Courageous is generic, denoting an
inward spirit which rises above fear; brave is more outward, marking
a spirit which braves or defies danger; gallant rises still higher,
denoting bravery on extraordinary occasions in a spirit of adventure.
A courageous man is ready for battle; a brave man courts it; a
gallant man dashes into the midst of the conflict.

GALLANT
Gal*lant", a.

Defn: Polite and attentive to ladies; courteous to women; chivalrous.

GALLANT
Gal*lant", n.

1. A man of mettle or spirit; a gay; fashionable man; a young blood.
Shak.

2. One fond of paying attention to ladies.

3. One who wooes; a lover; a suitor; in a bad sense, a seducer.
Addison.

Note: In the first sense it is by some orthoëpists (as in
Shakespeare) accented on the first syllable.

GALLANT
Gal*lant", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gallanted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gallanting.]

1. To attend or wait on, as a lady; as, to gallant ladies to the
play.

2. To handle with grace or in a modish manner; as, to gallant a fan.
[Obs.] Addison.

GALLANTLY
Gal*lant"ly, adv.

Defn: In a polite or courtly manner; like a gallant or wooer.

GALLANTLY
Gal"lant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a gallant manner.

GALLANTNESS
Gal"lant*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being gallant.

GALLANTRY
Gal"lant*ry, n.; pl. Gallantries. Etym: [F. galanterie.]

1. Splendor of appearance; ostentatious finery. [Archaic]
Guess the gallantry of our church by this . . . when the desk whereon
the priest read was inlaid with plates of silver. Fuller.

2. Bravery; intrepidity; as, the troops behaved with great gallantry.

3. Civility or polite attention to ladies; in a bed sense, attention
or courtesy designed to win criminal favors from a female; freedom of
principle or practice with respect to female virtue; intrigue.

4. Gallant persons, collectively. [R.]
Helenus, Antenor, and all the gallantry of Troy. Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Courage, and Heroism.

GALLATE
Gal"late, n. Etym: [Cf. F. gallate. See Gall gallnut.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of gallic acid.

GALLATURE
Gal"la*ture, n. Etym: [From L. gallus a cock.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The tread, treadle, or chalasa of an egg.

GALLEASS
Gal"le*ass, n. Etym: [F. galéasse, galéace; cf. It. galeazza, Sp.
galeaza; LL. galea a galley. See Galley.] (Naut.)

Defn: A large galley, having some features of the galleon, as
broadside guns; esp., such a vessel used by the southern nations of
Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries. See Galleon, and Galley.
[Written variously galeas, gallias, etc.]

Note: "The galleasses . . . were a third larger than the ordinary
galley, and rowed each by three hundred galley slaves. They consisted
of an enormous towering structure at the stern, a castellated
structure almost equally massive in front, with seats for the rowers
amidships." Motley.

GALLEGAN; GALLEGO
Gal*le"gan, Gal*le"go ( or ), n. Etym: [Sp. Gallego.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Galicia, in Spain; a Galician.

GALLEIN
Gal"le*ïn, n. Etym: [Pyrogallol + phthaleïn.] (Chem.)

Defn: A red crystalline dyestuff, obtained by heating together
pyrogallic and phthalic acids.

GALLEON
Gal"le*on, n. Etym: [Sp. galeon, cf. F. galion; fr. LL. galeo, galio.
See Galley.] (Naut.)

Defn: A sailing vessel of the 15th and following centuries, often
having three or four decks, and used for war or commerce. The term is
often rather indiscriminately applied to any large sailing vessel.
The gallens . . . were huge, round-stemmed, clumsy vessels, with
bulwarks three or four feet thick, and built up at stem and stern,
like castels. Motley.

GALLEOT
Gal"le*ot, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Galiot.

GALLERY
Gal"ler*y, n.; pl Galleries. Etym: [F. galerie, It. galleria, fr. LL.
galeria gallery, perh. orig., a festal hall, banquetting hall; cf.
OF. galerie a rejoicing, fr. galer to rejoice. Cf. Gallant, a.]

1. A long and narrow corridor, or place for walking; a connecting
passageway, as between one room and another; also, a long hole or
passage excavated by a boring or burrowing animal.

2. A room for the exhibition of works of art; as, a picture gallery;
hence, also, a large or important collection of paintings,
sculptures, etc.

3. A long and narrow platform attached to one or more sides of public
hall or the interior of a church, and supported by brackets or
columns; -- sometimes intended to be occupied by musicians or
spectators, sometimes designed merely to increase the capacity of the
hall.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A frame, like a balcony, projecting from the stern or quarter
of a ship, and hence called stern galery or quarter gallry, -- seldom
found in vessels built since 1850.

5. (Fort.)

Defn: Any communication which is covered overhead as well as at the
sides. When prepared for defense, it is a defensive galery.

6. (Mining)

Defn: A working drift or level. Whispering gallery. See under
Whispering.

GALLETYLE
Gal"le*tyle, n. Etym: [OE. gallytile. Cf. Gallipot.]

Defn: A little tile of glazed earthenware. [Obs.] "The substance of
galletyle." Bacon.

GALLEY
Gal"ley, n.; pl. Galleys. Etym: [OE. gale, galeie (cf. OF. galie,
galée, LL. galea, LGr.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel propelled by oars, whether having masts and sails or
not; as:
(a) A large vessel for war and national purposes; -- common in the
Middle Ages, and down to the 17th century.
(b) A name given by analogy to the Greek, Roman, and other ancient
vessels propelled by oars.
(c) A light, open boat used on the Thames by customhouse officers,
press gangs, and also for pleasure.
(d) One of the small boats carried by a man-of-war.

Note: The typical galley of the Mediterranean was from one hundred to
two hundred feet long, often having twenty oars on each side. It had
two or three masts rigged with lateen sails, carried guns at prow and
stern, and a complement of one thousand to twelve hundred men, and
was very efficient in mediaeval walfare. Galleons, galliots,
galleasses, half galleys, and quarter galleys were all modifications
of this type.

2. The cookroom or kitchen and cooking apparatus of a vessel; --
sometimes on merchant vessels called the caboose.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: An oblong oven or muffle with a battery of retorts; a gallery
furnace.

4. Etym: [F. galée; the same word as E. galley a vessel.] (Print.)
(a) An oblong tray of wood or brass, with upright sides, for holding
type which has been set, or is to be made up, etc.
(b) A proof sheet taken from type while on a galley; a galley proof.
Galley slave, a person condemned, often as a punishment for crime, to
work at the oar on board a galley. "To toil like a galley slave."
Macaulay.-- Galley slice (Print.), a sliding false bottom to a large
galley. Knight.

GALLEY-BIRD
Gal"ley-bird`, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European green woodpecker; also, the spotted woodpecker.
[Prov. Eng.]

GALLEY-WORM
Gal"ley-worm`, n. Etym: [Prob. so called because the numerous legs
along the sides move rhythmically like the oars of a galley.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A chilognath myriapod of the genus Iulus, and allied genera,
having numerous short legs along the sides; a milliped or "thousand
legs." See Chilognatha.

GALLFLY
Gall"fly`, n.; pl. Gallflies (. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect that deposits its eggs in plants, and occasions
galls, esp. any small hymenopteran of the genus Cynips and allied
genera. See Illust. of Gall.

GALLIAMBIC
Gal`li*am"bic, a. Etym: [L. galliambus a song used by the priests of
Cybele; Gallus (a name applied to these priests) + iambus] (Pros.)

Defn: Consisting of two iambic dimeters catalectic, the last of which
lacks the final syllable; -- said of a kind of verse.

GALLIAN
Gal"li*an, a. Etym: [See Gallic.]

Defn: Gallic; French. [Obs.] Shak.

GALLIARD
Gal"liard, a. Etym: [OE., fr. F. gaillard, perh. of Celtic origin;
cf. Ir. & Gael. galach valiant, or AS. gagol, geagl, wanton,
lascivious.]

Defn: Gay; brisk; active. [Obs.]

GALLIARD
Gal"liard, n.

Defn: A brisk, gay man. [Obs.]
Selden is a galliard by himself. Cleveland.

GALLIARD
Gal"liard, n. Etym: [F. gaillarde, cf. Sp. gallarda. See Galliard,
a.]

Defn: A gay, lively dance. Cf. Gailliarde.
Never a hall such a galliard did grace. Sir. W. Scott.

GALLIARDISE
Gal`liard*ise, n. Etym: [F. gaillardise. See Galliard, a.]

Defn: Excessive gayety; merriment. [Obs.]
The mirth and galliardise of company. Sir. T. Browne.

GALLIARDNESS
Gal"liard*ness, n.

Defn: Gayety. [Obs.] Gayton.

GALLIASS
Gal"li*ass, n.

Defn: Same as Galleass.

GALLIC
Gal"lic, a. Etym: [From Gallium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, gallium.

GALLIC
Gal"lic (277), a. Etym: [From Gall the excrescence.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, galls, nutgalls, and the like.
Gallic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, very widely distributed in the
vegetable kingdom, being found in the free state in galls, tea, etc.,
and produced artificially. It is a white, crystalline substance,
C6H2(HO)3.CO2H, with an astringent taste, and is a strong reducing
agent, as employed in photography. It is usually prepared from
tannin, and both give a dark color with iron salts, forming tannate
and gallate of iron, which are the essential ingredients of common
black ink.

GALLIC
Gal"lic, a. Etym: [L. Gallicus belonging to the Gauls, fr. Galli the
Gauls, Gallia Gaul, now France: cf. F. gallique.]

Defn: Pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallican.

GALLICAN
Gal"li*can, a. Etym: [L. Gallicanus: cf. F. gallican.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallic; French; as, the
Gallican church or clergy.

GALLICAN
Gal"li*can, n.

Defn: An adherent to, and supporter of, Gallicanism. Shipley.

GALLICANISM
Gal"li*can*ism, n.

Defn: The principles, tendencies, or action of those, within the
Roman Catholic Church in France, who (esp. in 1682) sought to
restrict the papal authority in that country and increase the power
of the national church. Schaff-Herzog Encyc.

GALLICISM
Gal"li*cism, n. Etym: [F. gallicisme.]

Defn: A mode of speech peculiar to the French; a French idiom; also,
in general, a French mode or custom.

GALLICIZE
Gal"li*cize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gallicized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gallicizing.]

Defn: To conform to the French mode or idiom.

GALLIED
Gal"lied, p. p. & a. (Naut.)

Defn: Worried; flurried; frightened. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

GALLIFORM
Gal"li*form, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like the Gallinae (or Galliformes) in structure.

GALLIGASKINS
Gal`li*gas"kins, n. pl. Etym: [Prob. corrupted fr. It. Grechesco
Grecian, a name which seems to have been given in Venice, and to have
been afterwards confused with Gascony, as if they came from Gascony.]

Defn: Loose hose or breeches; leather leg quards. The word is used
loosely and often in a jocose sense.

GALLIMATIA
Gal`li*ma"ti*a ( or ), n.

Defn: Senseless talk. [Obs. or R.] See Galimatias.

GALLIMAUFRY
Gal`li*mau"fry, n.; pl. Gallimaufries. Etym: [F. galimafrée a sort of
ragout or mixed hash of different meats.]

1. A hash of various kinds of meats, a ragout.
Delighting in hodge-podge, gallimaufries, forced meat. King.

2. Any absurd medley; a hotchpotch.
The Mahometan religion, which, being a gallimaufry made up of many,
partakes much of the Jewish. South.

GALLIN
Gal"lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance obtained by the reduction of galleïn.

GALLINACEAE
Gal"li*nace*ae, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Gallinaceous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Gallinae.

GALLINACEAN
Gal`li*na"cean, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Gallinae or gallinaceous birds.

GALLINACEOUS
Gal`li*na"ceous, a.Etym: [L. gallinaceus, fr. gallina hen, fr. gallus
cock.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling the domestic fowls and pheasants; of or pertaining
to the Gallinae.

GALLINAE
Gal*li"nae, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. gallina a hen, gallus a cock.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of birds, including the common domestic fowls,
pheasants, grouse, quails, and allied forms; -- sometimes called
Rasores.

GALLING
Gall"ing, a.

Defn: Fitted to gall or chafe; vexing; harassing; irritating.
 -- Gall"ing*ly, adv.

GALLINIPPER
Gal"li*nip`per, n.

Defn: A large mosquito.

GALLINULE
Gal"li*nule, n. Etym: [L. gallinula chicken, dim. of gallina hen: cf.
F. gallinule.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several wading birds, having long, webless toes, and a
frontal shield, belonging to the family Rallidae. They are remarkable
for running rapidly over marshes and on floating plants. The purple
gallinule of America is Ionornis Martinica, that of the Old World is
Porphyrio porphyrio. The common European gallinule (Gallinula
chloropus) is also called moor hen, water hen, water rail, moor coot,
night bird, and erroneously dabchick. Closely related to it is the
Florida gallinule (Gallinula galeata).

Note: The purple gallinule of Southern Europe and Asia was formerly
believed to be able to detect and report adultery, and for that
reason, chiefly, it was commonly domesticated by the ancients.

GALLIOT
Gal"li*ot, n.

Defn: See Galiot.

GALLIPOLI OIL
Gal*lip"o*li oil`.

Defn: An inferior kind of olive oil, brought from Gallipoli, in
Italy.

GALLIPOT
Gal"li*pot, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. OD. gleypot, the first part of which
is possibly akin to E. glad. See Glad, and Pot.]

Defn: A glazed earthen pot or vessel, used by druggists and
apothecaries for containing medicines, etc.

GALLIUM
Gal"li*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. Gallia France.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element, found in certain zinc ores. It is
white, hard, and malleable, resembling aluminium, and remarcable for
its low melting point (86

Note: The element was predicted with most of its properties, under
the name ekaluminium, by the Russian chemist Mendelejeff, on the
basis of the Periodic law. This prediction was verified in its
discovery by the French chemist Lecoq de Boisbaudran by its
characteristic spectrum (two violet lines), in an examination of a
zinc blende from the Pyrenees.

GALLIVANT
Gal"li*vant, v. i. Etym: [From Gallant.]

Defn: To play the beau; to wait upon the ladies; also, to roam about
for pleasure without any definite plan. [Slang] Dickens.

GALLIVAT
Gal"li*vat, n.Etym: [Prob. fr. Pg. galeota; cf. E. galiot, galley.]
(Naut.)

Defn: A small armed vessel, with sails and oars, -- used on the
Malabar coast. A. Chalmers.

GALLIWASP
Gal"li*wasp`, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West Indian lizard (Celestus occiduus), about a foot long,
imagined by the natives to be venomous.

GALLIZE
Gal"lize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Gallized; p. pr. & vb. n. Gallizing.]
[After Dr. L. Gall, a French chemist, who invented the process.]

Defn: In wine making, to add water and sugar to (unfermented grape
juice) so as to increase the quantity of wine produced. --
Gal`li*za"tion (#), n.