

GALLNUT
Gall"nut`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A round gall produced on the leaves and shoots of various
species of the oak tree. See Gall, and Nutgall.

GALLOMANIA
Gal`lo*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [L. Galli Gauls + mania madness.]

Defn: An excessive admiration of what is French.
 -- Gal`lo*ma"ni*ac, n.

GALLON
Gal"lon, n. Etym: [OF galon, jalon, LL. galo, galona, fr. galum a
liquid measure; cf. F. jale large bowl. Cf. Gill a measure.]

Defn: A measure of capacity, containing four quarts; -- used, for the
most part, in liquid measure, but sometimes in dry measure.

Note: The standart gallon of the Unites States contains 231 cubic
inches, or 8.3389 pounds avoirdupois of distilled water at its
maximum density, and with the barometer at 30 inches. This is almost
exactly equivalent to a cylinder of seven inches in diameter and six
inches in height, and is the same as the old English wine gallon. The
beer gallon, now little used in the United States, contains 282 cubic
inches. The English imperial gallon contains 10 pounds avoirdupois of
distilled water at 62

GALLOON
Gal*loon", n. Etym: [From F. or Sp. galon. See Gala. ]

1. A narrow tapelike fabric used for binding hats, shoes, etc., --
sometimes made ornamental.

2. A similar bordering or binding of rich material, such as gold
lace.
Silver and gold galloons, with the like glittering gewgaws. Addison.

GALLOONED
Gal*looned`, a.

Defn: Furnished or adorned with galloon.

GALLOP
Gal"lop, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Galloped; p. pr. & vb. n. Galloping.]
Etym: [OE. galopen, F. galoper, of German origin; cf. assumed Goth.
ga-hlaupan to run, OHG. giloufen, AS. gehleápan to leap, dance, fr.
root of E. leap, and a prefix; or cf. OFlem. walop a gallop. See
Leap, and cf. 1st Wallop.]

1. To move or run in the mode called a gallop; as a horse; to go at a
gallop; to run or move with speed.
But gallop lively down the western hill. Donne.

2. To ride a horse at a gallop.

3. Fig.: To go rapidly or carelessly, as in making a hasty
examination.
Such superficial ideas he may collect in galloping over it. Locke.

GALLOP
Gal"lop, v. t.

Defn: To cause to gallop.

GALLOP
Gal"lop, n. Etym: [Cf. F. galop. See Gallop, v. i., and cf. Galop.]

Defn: A mode of running by a quadruped, particularly by a horse, by
lifting alternately the fore feet and the hind feet, in successive
leaps or bounds. Hand gallop, a slow or gentle gallop.

GALLOPADE
Gal"lo*pade`, n. Etym: [F. galopade. See Gallop, n.]

1. I horsemanship, a sidelong or curveting kind of gallop.

2. A kind of dance; also, music to the dance; a galop.

GALLOPADE
Gal`lo*pade", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gallopaded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gallopading.]

1. To gallop, as on horseback.

2. To perform the dance called gallopade.

GALLOPER
Gal"lop*er, n.

1. One who, or that which, gallops.

2.

(Mil.)

Defn: A carriage on which very small guns were formerly mounted, the
gun resting on the shafts, without a limber. Farrow. Galloper gun, a
light gun, supported on a galloper, -- formerly attached to British
infantry regiments.

GALLOPIN
Gal"lo*pin, n.Etym: [F. galopin. See Gallop, v. i.]

Defn: An under servant for the kitchen; a scullion; a cook's errand
boy. [Obs.] Halliwell.

GALLOPING
Gal"lop*ing, a.

Defn: Going at a gallop; progressing rapidly; as, a galloping horse.

GALLOTANNIC
Gal`lo*tan"nic, a. Etym: [Gall nutgall + tannic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to the tannin or nutgalls. Gallotannic acid. See
Tannic acid, under Tannic.

GALLOW
Gal"low, v. t. Etym: [Cf. AS. agelwan to stupefy.]

Defn: To fright or terrify. See Gally, v. t. [Obs.] Shak.

GALLOWAY
Gal"lo*way, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small horse of a breed raised at Galloway, Scotland; --
called also garran, and garron.

GALLOWGLASS
Gal"low*glass`, n. Etym: [Ir. galloglach. Cf. Gillie.]

Defn: A heavy-armed foot soldier from Ireland and the Western Isles
in the time of Edward Shak.

GALLOWS
Gal"lows, n. sing.; pl. Gallowses or Gallows. Etym: [OE. galwes, pl.,
AS. galga, gealga, gallows, cross; akin to D. galg gallows, OS. &
OHG. galgo, G. galgen, Icel. galgi, Sw. & Dan. galge, Goth. galga a
cross. Etymologically and historically considered, gallows is a noun
in the plural number, but it is used as a singular, and hence is
preceded by a; as, a gallows.]

1. A frame from which is suspended the rope with which criminals are
executed by hanging, usually consisting of two upright posts and a
crossbeam on the top; also, a like frame for suspending anything.
So they hanged Haman on the gallows. Esther vii. 10.
If I hang, I'll make a fat pair of gallows. Shak.
O, there were desolation of gaolers and gallowses Shak.

2. A wretch who deserves the gallows. [R.] Shak.

3. (Print.)

Defn: The rest for the tympan when raised.

4. pl.

Defn: A pair of suspenders or braces. [Colloq.] Gallows bird, a
person who deserves the gallows. [Colloq.] -- Gallows bitts (Naut.),
one of two or more frames amidships on deck for supporting spare
spars; -- called also gallows, gallows top, gallows frame, etc.
 -- Gallows frame. (a) The frame supporting the beam of an engine.
(b) (Naut.) Gallows bitts.
 -- Gallows, or Gallow tree, the gallows.
At length him nailéd on a gallow tree. Spenser.

GALLSTONE
Gall"stone`, n.

Defn: A concretion, or calculus, formed in the gall bladder or
biliary passages. See Calculus, n., 1.

GALLY
Gal"ly, v. t. Etym: [See Gallow, v. t.]

Defn: To frighten; to worry. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] T. Brown.

GALLY
Gall"y, a.

Defn: Like gall; bitter as gall. Cranmer.

GALLY
Gal"ly, n.

Defn: See Galley, n., 4.

GALLYGASKINS
Gal`ly*gas"kins, n. pl.

Defn: See Galligaskins.

GALOCHE; GALOSHE
Ga*loche", Ga*loshe" (, Etym: [OE. galoche, galache, galage, shoe, F.
galoche galoche, perh. altered fr. L. gallica a Gallic shoe, or fr.
LL. calopedia wooden shoe, or shoe with a wooden sole, Gr.

1. A clog or patten. [Obs.]
Nor were worthy [to] unbuckle his galoche. Chaucer.

2. Hence: An overshoe worn in wet weather.

3. A gaiter, or legging, covering the upper part of the shoe and part
of the leg.

GALOOT
Ga*loot", n.

Defn: A noisy, swaggering, or worthless fellow; a rowdy. [Slang, U.
S.]

GALOP
Gal"op, n. Etym: [F.] (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of lively dance, in 2-4 time; also, the music to the
dance.

GALORE
Ga*lore", n. & a. Etym: [Scot. gelore, gilore, galore, fr. Gael. gu
leòr, enough; gu- to, also an adverbial prefix + leòr, leòir, enough;
or fr. Ir. goleor, the same word.]

Defn: Plenty; abundance; in abundance.

GALOSH
Ga*losh", n.

1. Same as Galoche, Galoshe.

2.  A strip of material, as leather, running around a shoe at and
above the sole, as for protection or ornament.

GALOSHE
Ga*loshe", n.

Defn: Same as Galoche.

GALPE
Galpe, v. i.

Defn: To gape,; to yawn. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GALSOME
Gal"some, a. Etym: [Gall bitterness + some.]

Defn: Angry; malignant. [Obs.] Bp. Morton.

GALT
Galt, n Etym: [See Gault.]

Defn: Same as Gault.

GALVANIC
Gal*van"ic, a. Etym: [From Galvani, a professor of physiology at
Bologna, on account of his connection (about 1780) with the discovery
of dynamical or current electricity: cf. F. galvanique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, galvanism;
employing or producing electrical currents. Galvanic battery (Elec.),
an apparatus for generating electrical currents by the mutual action
of certain liquids and metals; -- now usually called voltaic battery.
See Battery.
 -- Galvanic circuit or circle. (Elec.) See under Circuit.
 -- Galvanic pile (Elec.), the voltaic pile. See under Voltaic.

GALVANISM
Gal"va*nism, n Etym: [From Galvani: cf. F. galvanisme. See Galvanic.]
(Physics)
(a) Electricity excited by the mutual action of certain liquids and
metals; dynamical electricity.
(b) The branch of physical science which treats of dynamical
elecricity, or the properties and effects of electrical currents.

Note: The words galvanism and galvanic, formerly in very general use,
are now rarely employed. For the latter, voltaic, from the name of
Volta, is commonly used.

GALVANIST
Gal"va*nist, n.

Defn: One versed in galvanism.

GALVANIZATION
Gal"va*niza`tion, n.

Defn: The act of process of galvanizing.

GALVANIZE
Gal"va*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Galvanized; p pr. & vb. n.
Galvanizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. galvaniser.]

1. To affect with galvanism; to subject to the action of electrical
currents.

2. To plate, as with gold, silver, etc., by means of electricity.

3. To restore to consciousness by galvanic action (as from a state of
suspended animation); hence, to stimulate or excite to a factitious
animation or activity.

4. To coat, as iron, with zinc. See Galvanized iron. Galvanized iron,
formerly, iron coated with zink by electrical deposition; now more
commonly, iron coated with zink by plunging into a bath of melted
zink, after its surface has been cleaned by friction with the aid of
dilute acid.

GALVANIZER
Gal"va*ni`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, galvanize.

GALVANOCAUSTIC
Gal*van`o*caus"tic, a. Etym: [Galvanic + caustic.]

Defn: Relating to the use of galvanic heat as a caustic, especially
in medicine.

GALVANOCAUTERY
Gal*van`o*cau"ter*y, n. (Med.)

Defn: Cautery effected by a knife or needle heated by the passage of
a galvanic current.

GALVANOGLYPHY
Gal`va*nog"ly*phy, n. Etym: [Galvanic + Gr.

Defn: Same as Glyphography.

GALVANOGRAPH
Gal*van"o*graph, n. Etym: [Galvanic + -graph.] (Engraving)

Defn: A copperplate produced by the method of galvanography; also, a
picture printed from such a plate.

GALVANOGRAPHIC
Gal*van`o*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to galvanography.

GALVANOGRAPHY
Gal`va*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Galvanic + -graphy.]

1. The art or process of depositing metals by electricity;
electrotypy.

2. A method of producing by means of electrotyping process (without
etching) copperplates which can be printed from in the same manner as
engraved plates.

GALVANOLOGIST
Gal`va*nol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who describes the phenomena of galvanism; a writer on
galvanism.

GALVANOLOGY
Gal`va*nol"o*gy n. Etym: [Galvanic + -logy.]

Defn: A treatise on galvanism, or a description of its phenomena.

GALVANOMETER
Gal`va*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Galvanic + -meter: cf. F. galvanomètre.]
(Elec.)

Defn: An instrument or apparatus for measuring the intensity of an
electric current, usually by the deflection of a magnetic needle.
Differential galvanometer. See under Differental, a.
 -- Sine galvanometer, Cosine galvanometer, Tangent galvanometer
(Elec.), a galvanometer in which the sine, cosine, or tangent
respectively, of the angle through which the needle is deflected, is
proportional to the strength of the current passed through the
instrument.

GALVANOMETRIC
Gal*van`o*met"ric, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or measured by, a galvanometer.

GALVANOMETRY
Gal`va*nom"e*try, n.

Defn: The art or process of measuring the force of electric currents.

GALVANOPLASTIC
Gal*van`o*plas"tic, a. Etym: [Galvanic + -plastic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the art or process of electrotyping;
employing, or produced by, the process of electolytic deposition; as,
a galvano-plastic copy of a medal or the like.

GALVANOPLASTY
Gal*van"o*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. galanoplastie.]

Defn: The art or process of electrotypy.

GALVANOPUNCTURE
Gal*van`o*punc"ture, n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Electro-puncture.

GALVANOSCOPE
Gal*van`o*scope, n. Etym: [Galvanic + -scope: cf. F. galvanoscope.]
(Elec.)

Defn: An instrument or apparatus for detecting the presence of
electrical currents, especially such as are of feeble intensity.

GALVANOSCOPIC
Gal*van`o*scop"ic, a

Defn: Of or pertaining to a galvanoscope.

GALVANOSCOPY
Gal`va*nos"co*py, n (Physiol.)

Defn: The use of galvanism in physiological experiments.

GALVANOTONUS
Gal`va*not"o*nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. E. galvanic + GR. (Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Electrotonus.

GALVANOTROPISM
Gal`va*not"ro*pism, n. Etym: [Galvanic + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The tendency of a root to place its axis in the line of a
galvanic current.

GALWES
Gal"wes, n.

Defn: Gallows. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GAM
Gam, n. [Orig. uncert.] (Naut.)
 (a) A herd, or school, of whales.
 (b) A visit between whalers at sea; a holding of social intercourse
between those on different vessels at sea, or (Local U. S.) between
persons ashore.

GAM
Gam, v. i.  [imp. & p. p. Gammed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gam"ming.] (Naut.)
 (a) To gather in a gam; -- said of whales.
 (b) To engage in a gam, or (Local, U. S.) in social intercourse
anywhere.

GAM
Gam, v. t. (Naut.)

Defn: To have a gam with; to pay a visit to, esp. among whalers at
sea.

GAMA GRASS
Ga"ma grass`. Etym: [From Gama, a cluster of the Maldive Islands.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A species of grass (Tripsacum dactyloides) tall, stout, and
exceedingly productive; cultivated in the West Indies, Mexico, and
the Southern States of North America as a forage grass; -- called
also sesame grass.

GAMASHES
Ga*mash"es, n. pl. Etym: [F. gamaches.]

Defn: High boots or buskins; in Scotland, short spatterdashes or
riding trousers, worn over the other clothing.

GAMBA
Gam"ba, n.

Defn: A viola da gamba.

GAMBADOES
Gam*ba"does, n. pl. Etym: [I. or Sp. gamba leg. See Gambol, n.]

Defn: Same as Gamashes.
His thin legs tenanted a pair of gambadoes fastened at the side with
rusty clasps. Sir W. Scott.

GAMBEER
Gam*beer", v. t. [Cf. F. gambier a kind of hook.] (Fishing)

Defn: To gaff, as mackerel.

GAMBESON
Gam"be*son, n.

Defn: Same as Gambison.

GAMBET
Gam"bet, n. Etym: [Fr. gambette, or It. gambetta.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genuis Totanus. See Tattler.

GAMBIER
Gam"bier, n. Etym: [Malayan.]
(a) The inspissated juice of a plant (Uncaria Gambir) growing in
Malacca. It is a powerful astringent, and, under the name of Terra
Japonica, is used for chewing with the Areca nut, and is exported for
tanning and dyeing.
(b) Catechu. [Written also gambeer and gambir.]

GAMBISON
Gam"bi*son, n. Etym: [OF. gambeson, gambaison, fr. gambais, wambais,
of German origin: cf. MHG. wambeis, G. wams doublet, fr. OHG. wamba,
stomach. See Womb.]

Defn: A defensive garment formerly in use for the body, made of cloth
stuffed and quilted.

GAMBIST
Gam"bist, n. Etym: [It. gamba leg.] (Mus.)

Defn: A performer upon the viola di gamba. See under Viola.

GAMBIT
Gam"bit, n. Etym: [F. gambit, cf. It. gambitto gambit, a tripping up.
See Gambol, n.] (Chess Playing)

Defn: A mode of opening the game, in which a pawn is sacrificed to
gain an attacking position.

GAMBLE
Gam"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gambled; p. pr. & vb. n. Gambling.]
Etym: [Dim. of game. See 2d Game.]

Defn: To play or game for money or other stake.

GAMBLE
Gamble, v. t.

Defn: To lose or squander by gaming; -- usually with away. "Bankrupts
or sots who have gambled or slept away their estates." Ames.

GAMBLER
Gam"bler, n.

Defn: One who gambles.

GAMBOGE
Gam*boge", n.

Defn: A concrete juice, or gum resin, produced by several species of
trees in Siam, Ceylon, and Malabar. It is brought in masses, or
cylindrical rolls, from Cambodia, or Cambogia, -- whence its name.
The best kind is of a dense, compact texture, and of a beatiful
reddish yellow. Taking internally, it is a strong and harsh cathartic
ad emetic. [Written also camboge.]

Note: There are several kinds of gamboge, but all are derived from
species of Garcinia, a genus of trees of the order Guttiferæ. The
best Siam gamboge is thought to come from Garcinia Hanburii. Ceylon
gamboge is from G. Morella. G. pictoria, of Western India, yields
gamboge, and also a kind of oil called gamboge butter.

GAMBOGIAN; GAMBOGIC
Gam*bo"gi*an, Gambogic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, gamboge.

GAMBOL
Gam"bol, n. Etym: [OE. gambolde, gambaulde, F. gambade, gambol, fr.
It. gambata kick, fr. L. gamba leg, akin to F. jambe, OF. also,
gambe, fr. L. gamba, hoof or perh. joint: cf. Gr. cam crooked; perh.
akin to E. chamber: cf.F. gambiller to kick about. Cf. Jamb, n.,
Gammon ham, Gambadoes.]

Defn: A skipping or leaping about in frolic; a hop; a sportive prank.
Dryden.

GAMBOL
Gam"bol v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gamboled, or Gambolled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gamboling or Gambolling.]

Defn: To dance and skip about in sport; to frisk; to skip; to play in
frolic, like boys or lambs.

GAMBREL
Gam"brel, n Etym: [OF. gambe, jambe leg, F. jambe. Cf. Cambrel,
Chambrel, and see Gambol. n.]

1. The hind leg of a horse.

2. A stick crooked like a horse's hind leg; -- used by butchers in
suspending slaughtered animals. Gambrel roof (Arch.), a curb roof
having the same section in all parts, with a lower steeper slope and
an upper and flatter one, so that each gable is pentagonal in form.

GAMBREL
Gam"brel v. t.

Defn: To truss or hang up by means of a gambrel. Beau. & Fl.

GAMBROON
Gam*broon", n.

Defn: A kind of twilled linen cloth for lining. Simmonds.

GAME
Game, a. Etym: [Cf. W. cam crooked, and E. gambol, n.]

Defn: Crooked; lame; as, a game leg. [Colloq.]

GAME
Game, n. Etym: [OE. game, gamen, AS. gamen, gomen, play, sport; akin
to OS., OHG., & Icel. gaman, Dan. gammen mirth, merriment, OSw.
gamman joy. Cf. Gammon a game, Backgammon, Gamble v. i.]

1. Sport of any kind; jest, frolic.
We have had pastimes here, and pleasant game. Shak.

2. A contest, physical or mental, according to certain rules, for
amusement, recreation, or for winning a stake; as, a game of chance;
games of skill; field games, etc.
But war's a game, which, were their subject wise, Kings would not
play at. Cowper.

Note: Among the ancients, especially the Greeks and Romans, there
were regularly recurring public exhibitions of strength, agility, and
skill under the patronage of the government, usually accompanied with
religious ceremonies. Such were the Olympic, the Pythian, the Nemean,
and the Isthmian games.

3. The use or practice of such a game; a single match at play; a
single contest; as, a game at cards.
Talk the game o'er between the deal. Lloyd.

4. That which is gained, as the stake in a game; also, the number of
points necessary to be scored in order to win a game; as, in short
whist five points are game.

5. (Card Playing)

Defn: In some games, a point credited on the score to the player
whose cards counts up the highest.

6. A scheme or art employed in the pursuit of an object or purpose;
method of procedure; projected line of operations; plan; project.
Your murderous game is nearly up. Blackw. Mag.
It was obviously Lord Macaulay's game to blacken the greatest
literary champion of the cause he had set himself to attack.
Saintsbury.

7. Animals pursued and taken by sportsmen; wild meats designed for,
or served at, table.
Those species of animals . . . distinguished from the rest by the
well-known appellation of game. Blackstone.
Confidence game. See under Confidence.
 -- To make game of, to make sport of; to mock. Milton.

GAME
Game, a.

1. Having a resolute, unyielding spirit, like the gamecock; ready to
fight to the last; plucky.
I was game . . . .I felt that I could have fought even to the death.
W. Irving.

2. Of or pertaining to such animals as are hunted for game, or to the
act or practice of hunting. Game bag, a sportsman's bag for carrying
small game captured; also, the whole quantity of game taken.
 -- Game bird, any bird commonly shot for food, esp. grouse,
partridges, quails, pheasants, wild turkeys, and the shore or wading
birds, such as plovers, snipe, woodcock, curlew, and sandpipers. The
term is sometimes arbitrarily restricted to birds hunted by
sportsmen, with dogs and guns.
 -- Game egg, an egg producing a gamecock.
 -- Game laws, laws regulating the seasons and manner of taking game
for food or for sport.
 -- Game preserver, a land owner who regulates the killing of game on
his estate with a view to its increase. [Eng.] -- To be game. (a) To
show a brave, unyielding spirit. (b) To be victor in a game.
[Colloq.] -- To die game, to maintain a bold, unyielding spirit to
the last; to die fighting.

GAME
Game, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gaming.] Etym: [OE.
gamen, game, to rejoice, AS. gamenian to play. See Game, n.]

1. To rejoice; to be pleased; -- often used, in Old English,
impersonally with dative. [Obs.]
God loved he best with all his whole hearte At alle times, though him
gamed or smarte. Chaucer.

2. To play at any sport or diversion.

3. To play for a stake or prize; to use cards, dice, billiards, or
other instruments, according to certain rules, with a view to win
money or other thing waged upon the issue of the contest; to gamble.

GAMECOCK
Game"cock`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The male game fowl.

GAME FOWL
Game" fowl`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A handsome breed of the common fowl, remarkable for the great
courage and pugnacity of the males.

GAMEFUL
Game"ful, a.

Defn: Full of game or games.

GAMEKEEPER
Game"keep`er, n.

Defn: One who has the care of game, especially in a park or preserve.
Blackstone.

GAMELESS
Game"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of game.

GAMELY
Game"ly, adv.

Defn: In a plucky manner; spiritedly.

GAMENESS
Game"ness, n.

Defn: Endurance; pluck.

GAMESOME
Game"some, a.

Defn: Gay; sportive; playful; frolicsome; merry. Shak.
Gladness of the gamesome crowd. Byron.
-- Game"some*ly, adv.
 -- Game"some*ness, n.

GAMESTER
Game"ster, n. Etym: [Game + -ster.]

1. A merry, frolicsome person. [Obs.] Shak.

2. A person who plays at games; esp., one accustomed to play for a
stake; a gambler; one skilled in games.
When lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom, the gentlest gamester is
the soonest winner. Shak.

3. A prostitute; a strumpet. [Obs.] Shak.

GAMETE
Gam"ete (gam"et; ga*met"; the latter usually in compounds), n. [Gr.
gameth` wife, or game`ths husband, fr. gamei^n to marry.] (Biol.)

Defn: A sexual cell or germ cell; a conjugating cell which unites
with another of like or unlike character to form a new individual. In
Bot., gamete designates esp. the similar sex cells of the lower
thallophytes which unite by conjugation, forming a zygospore. The
gametes of higher plants are of two sorts, sperm (male) and egg
(female); their union is called fertilization, and the resulting
zygote an oöspore. In Zoöl., gamete is most commonly used of the
sexual cells of certain Protozoa, though also extended to the germ
cells of higher forms.

GAMETOPHYTE
Ga*me"to*phyte, n.  [Gamete + Gr. fyto`n plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: In the alternation of generations in plants, that generation or
phase which bears sex organs. In the lower plants, as the algæ, the
gametophyte is the conspicuous part of the plant body; in mosses it
is the so-called moss plant; in ferns it is reduced to a small, early
perishing body; and in seed plants it is usually microscopic or
rudimentary.

GAMIC
Gam"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resulting from, sexual connection; formed by
the union of the male and female elements.

GAMIN
Gam"in, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A neglected and untrained city boy; a young street Arab.
In Japan, the gamins run after you, and say, 'Look at the Chinaman.'
L. Oliphant.

GAMING
Gam"ing, n.

Defn: The act or practice of playing games for stakes or wagers;
gambling.

GAMMA
Gam"ma, n.

Defn: The third letter (G) of the Greek alphabet.

GAMMADION
Gam*ma"di*on, n.

Defn: A cross formed of four capital gammas, formerly used as a
mysterious ornament on ecclesiastical vestments, etc. See Fylfot.

GAMMA RAYS
Gam"ma rays. (Physics)

Defn: Very penetrating rays not appreciably deflected by a magnetic
or electric field, emitted by radioactive substances. The prevailing
view is that they are non-periodic ether pulses differing from
Röntgen rays only in being more penetrating.

GAMMER
Gam"mer, n. Etym: [Possibly contr. fr. godmother; but prob. fr.
grammer for grandmother. Cf. Gaffer.]

Defn: An old wife; an old woman; -- correlative of gaffer, an old
man.

GAMMON
Gam"mon, n. Etym: [OF. gambon, F. jambon, fr. OF. gambe leg, F.
jambe. See Gambol, n., and cf. Ham.]

Defn: The buttock or tight of a hog, salted and smoked or dried; the
lower end of a flitch. Goldsmith.

GAMMON
Gam"mon, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gameed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gameing.]

Defn: To make bacon of; to salt and dry in smoke.

GAMMON
Gam"mon, n. Etym: [See 2d Game.]

1. Backgammon.

2. An imposition or hoax; humbug. [Colloq.]

GAMMON
Gam"mon, v. t.

1. To beat in the game of backgammon, before an antagonist has been
able to get his "men" or counters home and withdraw any of them from
the board; as, to gammon a person.

2. To impose on; to hoax; to cajole. [Colloq.] Hood.

GAMMON
Gam"mon, v. t. Etym: [Etymol. unknown.] (Naut.)

Defn: To fasten (a bowsprit) to the stem of a vessel by lashings of
rope or chain, or by a band of iron. Totten.

GAMMONING
Gam"mon*ing, n. Etym: [From 5th Gammon.] (Naut.)

Defn: The lashing or iron band by which the bowsprit of a vessel is
secured to the stem to opposite the lifting action of the forestays.
Gammoning fashion, in the style of gammoning lashing, that is, having
the turns of rope crossed.
 -- Gammoning hole (Naut.), a hole cut through the knee of the head
of a vessel for the purpose of gammoning the bowsprit.

GAMMONING
Gam"mon*ing, n. Etym: [From 4th Gammon.]

Defn: The act of imposing upon or hoaxing a person. [Colloq.]

GAMOGENESIS
Gam`o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: The production of offspring by the union of parents of
different sexes; sexual reproduction; -- the opposite of
agamogenesis.

GAMOGENETIC
Gam`o*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to gamogenesis.
 -- Gam`o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.

GAMOMORPHISM
Gam`o*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: That stage of growth or development in an organism, in which
the reproductive elements are generated and matured in preparation
for propagating the species.

GAMOPETALOUS
Gam`o*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. petalous: cf. F. gamopétale.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the petals united or joined so as to form a tube or cup;
monopetalous.

GAMOPHYLLOUS
Ga*moph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Composed of leaves united by their edges (coalescent). Gray.

GAMOSEPALOUS
Gam`o*sep"al*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. sepal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Formed of united sepals; monosepalous.

GAMP
Gamp, n.

Defn: A large umbrella; --said to allude to Mrs. Gamp's umbrella, in
Dickens's "Martin Chuzzlewit."

GAMUT
Gam"ut, n. Etym: [F. gamme + ut the name of a musical note. F. gamme
is fr. the name of the Greek letter Gamma, and Ut.] (Mus.)

Defn: The scale.

GAMY
Gam"y, a.

1. (Cookery)

Defn: Having the flavor of game, esp. of game kept uncooked till near
the condition of tainting; high-flavored.

2. (Sporting)

Defn: Showing an unyielding spirit to the last; plucky; furnishing
sport; as, a gamy trout.

GAN
Gan, imp. of Gin. Etym: [See Gin, v.]

Defn: Began; commenced.

Note: Gan was formerly used with the infinitive to form compound
imperfects, as did is now employed. Gan regularly denotes the
singular; the plural is usually denoted by gunne or gonne.
This man gan fall (i.e., fell) in great suspicion. Chaucer.
The little coines to their play gunne hie (i.e., hied). Chaucer.

Note: Later writers use gan both for singular and plural.
Yet at her speech their rages gan relent. Spenser.

GANANCIAL
Ga*nan"cial, a. [Sp., pertaining to gain, held in common, fr.
ganancia gain.] (Law)

Defn: Designating, pertaining to, or held under, the Spanish system
of law (called ganancial system) which controls the title and
disposition of the property acquired during marriage by the husband
or wife.

GANCH
Ganch, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. ganche, n., also Sp. & Pg. gancho hook,
It. gancio.]

Defn: To drop from a high place upon sharp stakes or hooks, as the
Turks dropped malefactors, by way of punishment.
Ganching, which is to let fall from on high upon hooks, and there to
hang until they die. Sandys.

GANDER
Gan"der, n. Etym: [AS. gandra, ganra, akin to Prov. G. gander,
ganter, and E. goose, gannet. See Goose.]

Defn: The male of any species of goose.

GANE
Gane, v. i. Etym: [See Yawn.]

Defn: To yawn; to gape. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GANESA
Ga*ne"sa, n. (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: The Hindoo god of wisdom or prudence.

Note: He is represented as a short, fat, red-colored man, with a
large belly and the head of an elephant. Balfour.

GANG
Gang, v. i. Etym: [AS. gangan, akin to OS. & OHG. gangan, Icel.
ganga, Goth. gaggan; cf. Lith. to walk, Skr. ja leg. sq. root48. CF.
Go.]

Defn: To go; to walk.

Note: Obsolete in English literature, but still used in the North of
England, and also in Scotland.

GANG
Gang, n. Etym: [Icel. gangr a going, gang, akin to AS., D., G., &
Dan. gang a going, Goth. gaggs street, way. See Gang, v. i.]

1. A going; a course. [Obs.]

2. A number going in company; hence, a company, or a number of
persons associated for a particular purpose; a group of laborers
under one foreman; a squad; as, a gang of sailors; a chain gang; a
gang of thieves.

3. A combination of similar implements arranged so as, by acting
together, to save time or labor; a set; as, a gang of saws, or of
plows.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A set; all required for an outfit; as, a new gang of stays.

5. Etym: [Cf. Gangue.] (Mining)

Defn: The mineral substance which incloses a vein; a matrix; a
gangue. Gang board, or Gang plank. (Naut.) (a) A board or plank, with
cleats for steps, forming a bridge by which to enter or leave a
vessel. (b) A plank within or without the bulwarks of a vessel's
waist, for the sentinel to walk on.
 -- Gang cask, a small cask in which to bring water aboard ships or
in which it is kept on deck.
 -- Gang cultivator, Gang plow, a cultivator or plow in which several
shares are attached to one frame, so as to make two or more furrows
at the same time.
 -- Gang days, Rogation days; the time of perambulating parishes. See
Gang week (below).
 -- Gang drill, a drilling machine having a number of drills driven
from a common shaft.
 -- Gang master, a master or employer of a gang of workmen.
 -- Gang plank. See Gang board (above).
 -- Gang plow. See Gang cultivator (above).
 -- Gang press, a press for operating upon a pile or row of objects
separated by intervening plates.
 -- Gang saw, a saw fitted to be one of a combination or gang of saws
hung together in a frame or sash, and set at fixed distances apart.
 -- Gang tide. See Gang week (below).
 -- Gang tooth, a projecting tooth. [Obs.] Halliwell.
 -- Gang week, Rogation week, when formerly processions were made to
survey the bounds of parishes. Halliwell.
 -- Live gang, or Round gang, the Western and the Eastern names,
respectively, for a gang of saws for cutting the round log into
boards at one operation. Knight.
 -- Slabbing gang, an arrangement of saws which cuts slabs from two
sides of a log, leaving the middle part as a thick beam.

GANGE
Gange, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Ganged; p. pr. & vb. n. Ganging.] [Of
uncertain origin.]

1. To protect (the part of a line next a fishhook, or the hook
itself) by winding it with wire.

2.  To attach (a fishhook) to a line or snell, as by knotting the
line around the shank of the hook.

GANGER
Gang"er, n.

Defn: One who oversees a gang of workmen. [R.] Mayhew.

GANGETIC
Gan*get"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or inhabiting, the Ganges; as, the Gangetic
shark.

GANG-FLOWER
Gang"-flow`er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The common English milkwort (Polygala vulgaris), so called from
blossoming in gang week. Dr. Prior.

GANGION
Gan"gion, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A short line attached to a trawl. See Trawl, n.

GANGLIAC; GANGLIAL
Gan"gli*ac, Gan"gli*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Relating to a ganglion; ganglionic.

GANGLIATE; GANGLIATED
Gan"gli*ate, Gan"gli*a`ted, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Furnished with ganglia; as, the gangliated cords of the
sympathetic nervous system.

GANGLIFORM; GANGLIOFORM
Gan"gli*form`, Gan"gli*o*form`, a. Etym: [Ganglion + -form.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having the form of a ganglion.

GANGLION
Gan"gli*on, n.; pl. L. Ganglia, E. Ganglions. Etym: [L. ganglion a
sort of swelling or excrescence, a tumor under the skin, Gr.
ganglion.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) A mass or knot of nervous matter, including nerve cells, usually
forming an enlargement in the course of a nerve.
(b) A node, or gland in the lymphatic system; as, a lymphatic
ganglion.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A globular, hard, indolent tumor, situated somewhere on a
tendon, and commonly formed by the effusion of a viscid fluid into
it; -- called also weeping sinew. Ganglion cell, a nerve cell. See
Illust. under Bipolar.

GANGLIONARY
Gan"gli*on*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ganglionnarie.] (Anat.)

Defn: Ganglionic.

GANGLIONIC
Gan`gli*on"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ganglionique.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, ganglia or
ganglion cells; as, a ganglionic artery; the ganglionic columns of
the spinal cord.

GANGREL
Gan"grel, a. Etym: [Cf. Gang, v. i.]

Defn: Wandering; vagrant. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

GANGRENATE
Gan"gre*nate, v. t.

Defn: To gangrene. [Obs.]

GANGRENE
Gan"grene, n. Etym: [F. gangrène, L. gangraena, fr. Gr. gras, gar, to
devour, and E. voracious, also canker, n., in sense 3.] (Med.)

Defn: A term formerly restricted to mortification of the soft tissues
which has not advanced so far as to produce complete loss of
vitality; but now applied to mortification of the soft parts in any
stage.

GANGRENE
Gan"grene, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Gangrened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gangrening.] Etym: [Cf. F. gangréner.]

Defn: To produce gangrene in; to be affected with gangrene.

GANGRENESCENT
Gan`gre*nes"cent, a.

Defn: Tending to mortification or gangrene.

GANGRENOUS
Gan"gre*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. gangréneux.]

Defn: Affected by, or produced by, gangrene; of the nature of
gangrene.

GANGUE
Gangue, n. Etym: [F. gangue, fr. G. gang a metallic vein, a passage.
See Gang, n.] (Mining)

Defn: The mineral or earthy substance associated with metallic ore.

GANGWAY
Gang"way`, n. Etym: [See Gang, v. i.]

1. A passage or way into or out of any inclosed place; esp., a
temporary way of access formed of planks.

2. In the English House of Commons, a narrow aisle across the house,
below which sit those who do not vote steadly either with the
government or with the opposition.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The opening through the bulwarks of a vessel by which persons
enter or leave it.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: That part of the spar deck of a vessel on each side of the
booms, from the quarter-deck to the forecastle; -- more properly
termed the waist. Totten. Gangway ladder, a ladder rigged on the side
of a vessel at the gangway.
 -- To bring to the gangway, to punish (a seaman) by flogging him at
the gangway.

GANIL
Gan"il, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of brittle limestone. [Prov. Eng.] Kirwan.

GANISTER; GANNISTER
Gan"is*ter, Gan"nis*ter, n. (Mech.)

Defn: A refractory material consisting of crushed or ground siliceous
stone, mixed with fire clay; -- used for lining Bessemer converters;
also used for macadamizing roads.

GANJA
Gan"ja, n. Etym: [Hind. ganjha.]

Defn: The dried hemp plant, used in India for smoking. It is
extremely narcotic and intoxicating.

GANNET
Gan"net, n. Etym: [OE. gant, AS. ganet, ganot, a sea fowl, a fen
duck; akin to D. gent gander, OHG. ganazzo. See Gander, Goose.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of sea birds of the genus Sula, allied
to the pelicans.

Note: The common gannet of Europe and America (S. bassana), is also
called solan goose, chandel goose, and gentleman. In Florida the wood
ibis is commonly called gannet. Booby gannet. See Sula.

GANOCEPHALA
Gan`o*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A group of fossil amphibians allied to the labyrinthodonts,
having the head defended by bony, sculptured plates, as in some
ganoid fishes.

GANOCEPHALOUS
Gan`o*ceph"a*lous, a. (Paleon.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ganocephala.

GANOID
Ga"noid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Ganoidei.
 -- n. One of the Ganoidei. Ganoid scale (Zoöl.), one kind of scales
of the ganoid fishes, composed of an inner layer of bone, and an
outer layer of shining enamel. They are often so arranged as to form
a coat of mail.

GANOIDAL
Ga*noid"al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Ganoid.

GANOIDEI
Ga*noi"de*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Ganoid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the subclasses of fishes. They have an arterial cone and
bulb, spiral intestinal valve, and the optic nerves united by a
chiasma. Many of the species are covered with bony plates, or with
ganoid scales; others have cycloid scales.

Note: They were numerous, and some of them of large size, in early
geological periods; but they are represented by comparatively few
living species, most of which inhabit fresh waters, as the bowfin,
gar pike, bichir, Ceratodus, paddle fish, and sturgeon.

GANOIDIAN
Ga*noid"i*an, a. & n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Ganoid.

GANOINE
Ga"no*ine, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar bony tissue beneath the enamel of a ganoid scale.

GANSA
Gan"sa, n.

Defn: Same as Ganza. Bp. Hall.

GANTLET
Gant"let, n. [Gantlet is corrupted fr. gantlope; gantlope is for
gatelope, Sw. gatlopp, orig., a running down a lane; gata street,
lane + lopp course, career, akin to löpa to run. See Gate a way, and
Leap.]

Defn: A military punishment formerly in use, wherein the offender was
made to run between two files of men facing one another, who struck
him as he passed. To run the gantlet, to suffer the punishment of the
gantlet; hence, to go through the ordeal of severe criticism or
controversy, or ill-treatment at many hands.
Winthrop ran the gantlet of daily slights. Palfrey.

Note: Written also, but less properly, gauntlet.

GANTLET
Gant"let, n.

Defn: A glove. See Gauntlet.

GANTLINE
Gant"line`, n.

Defn: A line rigged to a mast; -- used in hoisting rigging; a
girtline.

GANTLOPE
Gant"lope`, n.

Defn: See Gantlet. [Obs.]

GANTRY
Gan"try, n.

Defn: See Gauntree.

GANZA
Gan"za, n. Etym: [Sp. gansa, ganso, goose; of Gothic origin. See
Gannet, Goose.]

Defn: A kind of wild goose, by a flock of which a virtuoso was fabled
to be carried to the lunar world. [Also gansa.] Johnson.

GANZ SYSTEM
Ganz system

Defn: A haulage system for canal boats, in which an electric
locomotive running on a monorail has its adhesion materially
increased by the pull of the tow rope on a series of inclined
gripping wheels.

GAOL
Gaol, n. Etym: [See Jail.]

Defn: A place of confinement, especially for minor offenses or
provisional imprisonment; a jail. [Preferably, and in the United
States usually, written jail.] Commission of general gaol delivery,
an authority conferred upon judges and others included in it, for
trying and delivering every prisoner in jail when the judges, upon
their circuit, arrive at the place for holding court, and for
discharging any whom the grand jury fail to indict. [Eng.] -- Gaol
delivery. (Law) See Jail delivery, under Jail.

GAOLER
Gaol"er, n.

Defn: The keeper of a jail. See Jailer.

GAP
Gap, n. Etym: [OE. gap; cf. Icel. gap an empty space, Sw. gap mouth,
breach, abyss, Dan. gab mouth, opening, AS. geap expanse; as adj.,
wide, spacious. See Gape.]

Defn: An opening in anything made by breaking or parting; as, a gap
in a fence; an opening for a passage or entrance; an opening which
implies a breach or defect; a vacant space or time; a hiatus; a
mountain pass.
Miseries ensued by the opening of that gap. Knolles.
It would make a great gap in your own honor. Shak.
Gap lathe (Mach.), a turning lathe with a deep notch in the bed to
admit of turning a short object of large diameter.
 -- To stand in the gap, to expose one's self for the protection of
something; to make defense against any assailing danger; to take the
place of a fallen defender or supporter.
 -- To stop a gap, to secure a weak point; to repair a defect.

GAP
Gap, v. t.

1. To notch, as a sword or knife.

2. To make an opening in; to breach.
Their masses are gapp'd with our grape. Tennyson.

GAPE
Gape (; in Eng, commonly ; 277), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gaped ( or ); p.
pr. & vb. n. Gaping] Etym: [OE. gapen, AS. geapan to open; akin to D.
gapen to gape, G. gaffen, Icel. & Sw. gapa, Dan. gabe; cf. Skr. jabh
to snap at, open the mouth. Cf. Gaby, Gap.]

1. To open the mouth wide; as:
(a) Expressing a desire for food; as, young birds gape. Dryden.
(b) Indicating sleepiness or indifference; to yawn.
She stretches, gapes, unglues her eyes, And asks if it be time to
rise. Swift.
(c) Showing self-forgetfulness in surprise, astonishment,
expectation, etc.
With gaping wonderment had stared aghast. Byron.
(d) Manifesting a desire to injure, devour, or overcome.
They have gaped upon me with their mouth. Job xvi. 10.

2. To pen or part widely; to exhibit a gap, fissure, or hiatus.
May that ground gape and swallow me alive! Shak.

3. To long, wait eagerly, or cry aloud for something; -- with for,
after, or at.
The hungry grave for her due tribute gapes. Denham.

Syn.
 -- To gaze; stare; yawn. See Gaze.

GAPE
Gape, n.

1. The act of gaping; a yawn. Addison.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The width of the mouth when opened, as of birds, fishes, etc.
GAPES; THE GAPES
The gapes.
(a) A fit of yawning.
(b) A disease of young poultry and other birds, attended with much
gaping. It is caused by a parasitic nematode worm (Syngamus
trachealis), in the windpipe, which obstructs the breathing. See
Gapeworm.

GAPER
Gap"er, n.

1. One who gapes.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A European fish. See 4th Comber.
(b) A large edible clam (Schizothærus Nuttalli), of the Pacific
coast; -- called also gaper clam.
(c) An East Indian bird of the genus Cymbirhynchus, related to the
broadbills.

GAPESEED
Gape"seed`, n.

Defn: Any strange sight. Wright.

GAPESING
Gapes"ing ( or ), n.

Defn: Act of gazing about; sightseeing. [Prov. Eng.]

GAPEWORM
Gape"worm` ( or ), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The parasitic worm that causes the gapes in birds. See
Illustration in Appendix.

GAPINGSTOCK
Gap"ing*stock` ( or ), n.

Defn: One who is an object of open-mouthed wonder.
I was to be a gapingstock and a scorn to the young volunteers.
Godwin.

GAP-TOOTHED
Gap"-toothed`, a.

Defn: Having interstices between the teeth. Dryden.

GAR
Gar, n. Etym: [Prob. AS. gar dart, spear, lance. The name is applied
to the fish on account of its long and slender body and pointed head.
Cf. Goad, Gore, v.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Any slender marine fish of the genera Belone and Tylosurus. See
Garfish.
(b) The gar pike. See Alligator gar (under Alligator), and Gar pike.
Gar pike, or Garpike (Zoöl.), a large, elongated ganoid fish of the
genus Lepidosteus, of several species, inhabiting the lakes and
rivers of temperate and tropical America.

GAR
Gar, v. t. Etym: [Of Scand. origin. See Gear, n.]

Defn: To cause; to make. [Obs. or Scot.] Spenser.

GARAGE
Ga`rage", n. [F.]

1. A place for housing automobiles.

2.  (Aëronautics) A shed for housing an airship or flying machine; a
hangar.

3.  A side way or space in a canal to enable vessels to pass each
other; a siding.

 Garage is recent in English, and has as yet acquired no settled
pronunciation.

GARAGE
Ga`rage", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Garaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Garaging.]

Defn: To keep in a garage. [Colloq.]

GARANCIN
Gar"an*cin (; 104), n. Etym: [F. garance madder, LL. garantia.]
(Chem.)

Defn: An extract of madder by sulphuric acid. It consists essentially
of alizarin.

GARB
Garb, n. Etym: [OF. garbe looks, countenance, grace, ornament, fr.
OHG. garawi, garwi, ornament, dress. akin to E. gear. See Gear, n.]

1.
(a) Clothing in general.
(b) The whole dress or suit of clothes worn by any person, especially
when indicating rank or office; as, the garb of a clergyman or a
judge.
(c) Costume; fashion; as, the garb of a gentleman in the 16th
century.

2. External appearance, as expressive of the feelings or character;
looks; fashion or manner, as of speech.
You thought, because he could not speak English in the native garb,
he could not therefore handle an English cudgel. Shak.

GARB
Garb, n. Etym: [F. gerbe, OF. also garbe, OHG. garba, G. garbe; cf.
Skr. grbh to seize, E. grab.] (Her.)

Defn: A sheaf of grain (wheat, unless otherwise specified).

GARB
Garb, v. t.

Defn: To clothe; array; deck.
These black dog-Dons Garb themselves bravely. Tennyson.

GARBAGE
Gar"bage (; 48), n. Etym: [OE. also garbash, perh. orig., that which
is purged or cleansed away; cf. OF. garber to make fine, neat, OHG.
garawan to make ready, prepare, akin to E. garb dress; or perh. for
garbleage, fr. garble; or cf. OF. garbage tax on sheaves, E. garb
sheaf.]

Defn: Offal, as the bowels of an animal or fish; refuse animal or
vegetable matter from a kitchen; hence, anything worthless,
disgusting, or loathsome. Grainger.

GARBAGE
Gar"bage, v. t.

Defn: To strip of the bowels; to clean. "Pilchards . . . are
garbaged." Holland.

GARBED
Garbed, a.

Defn: Dressed; habited; clad.

GARBEL
Gar"bel, n. (Naut.)

Defn: Same as Garboard.

GARBEL
Gar"bel, n. Etym: [Cf. Garble, v. t.]

Defn: Anything sifted, or from which the coarse parts have been
taken. [Obs.]

GARBLE
Gar"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Garbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Garbling.]
Etym: [Formerly, to pick out, sort, OF. grabeler, for garbeler to
examine precisely, garble spices, fr. LL. garbellare to sift; cf. Sp.
garbillar to sift, garbillo a coarse sieve, L. cribellum, dim. of
cribrum sieve, akin to cernere to separate, sift (cf. E. Discern); or
perh. rather from Ar. gharbal, gharbil, sieve.]

1. To sift or bolt, to separate the fine or valuable parts of from
the coarse and useless parts, or from dros or dirt; as, to garble
spices. [Obs.]

2. To pick out such parts of as may serve a purpose; to mutilate; to
pervert; as, to garble a quotation; to garble an account.

GARBLE
Gar"ble, n.

1. Refuse; rubbish. [Obs.] Wolcott.

2. pl.

Defn: Impurities separated from spices, drugs, etc.; -- also called
garblings.

GARBLER
Gar"bler, n.

Defn: One who garbles.

GARBOARD
Gar"board, n. (Naut.)

Defn: One of the planks next the keel on the outside, which form a
garboard strake. Garboard strake or streak, the first range or strake
of planks laid on a ship's bottom next the keel. Totten.

GARBOIL
Gar"boil, n. Etym: [OF. garbouil; cf. Sp. garbullo, It. garbuglio; of
uncertain origin; the last part is perh. fr. L. bullire to boil, E.
boil.]

Defn: Tumult; disturbance; disorder. [Obs.] Shak.

GARCINIA
Gar*cin"i*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, including the mangosteen tree (Garcinia
Mangostana), found in the islands of the Indian Archipelago; -- so
called in honor of Dr. Garcin.

GARCON
Gar`çon", n. [F.]

Defn: A boy; fellow; esp., a serving boy or man; a waiter; -- in Eng.
chiefly applied to French waiters.

GARD
Gard, n. Etym: [See Garde, Yard]

Defn: Garden. [Obs.] "Trees of the gard." F. Beaumont.

GARD
Gard, v. & n.

Defn: See Guard.

GARDANT
Gar"dant, a. Etym: [F. See Guardant.] (Her.)

Defn: Turning the head towards the spectator, but not the body; --
said of a lion or other beast.

GARDE CIVIQUE
Garde` ci`vique". [F.]

Defn: See Army organization, above.

GARDEN
Gar"den, n. Etym: [OE. gardin, OF. gardin, jardin, F. jardin, of
German origin; cf. OHG. garto, G. garten; akin to AS. geard. See Yard
an inclosure.]

1. A piece of ground appropriates to the cultivation of herbs,
fruits, flowers, or vegetables.

2. A rich, well-cultivated spot or tract of country.
I am arrived from fruitful Lombardy, The pleasant garden of great
Italy. Shak.

Note: Garden is often used adjectively or in self-explaining
compounds; as, garden flowers, garden tools, garden walk, garden
wall, garden house or gardenhouse. Garden balsam, an ornamental plant
(Impatiens Balsamina).
 -- Garden engine, a wheelbarrow tank and pump for watering gardens.
 -- Garden glass. (a) A bell glass for covering plants. (b) A globe
of dark-colored glass, mounted on a pedestal, to reflect surrounding
objects; -- much used as an ornament in gardens in Germany.
 -- Garden house (a) A summer house. Beau & Fl. (b) A privy.
[Southern U.S.] -- Garden husbandry, the raising on a small scale of
seeds, fruits, vegetables, etc., for sale.
 -- Garden mold or mould, rich, mellow earth which is fit for a
garden. Mortimer.
 -- Garden nail, a cast nail used, for fastening vines to brick
walls. Knight.
 -- Garden net, a net for covering fruits trees, vines, etc., to
protect them from birds.
 -- Garden party, a social party held out of doors, within the
grounds or garden attached to a private residence.
 -- Garden plot, a plot appropriated to a garden. Garden pot, a
watering pot.
 -- Garden pump, a garden engine; a barrow pump.
 -- Garden shears, large shears, for clipping trees and hedges,
pruning, etc.
 -- Garden spider, (Zoöl.), the diadem spider (Epeira diadema),
common in gardens, both in Europe and America. It spins a geometrical
web. See Geometric spider, and Spider web.
 -- Garden stand, a stand for flower pots.
 -- Garden stuff, vegetables raised in a garden. [Colloq.] -- Garden
syringe, a syringe for watering plants, sprinkling them with
solutions for destroying insects, etc.
 -- Garden truck, vegetables raised for the market. [Colloq.] --
Garden ware, garden truck. [Obs.] Mortimer.
 -- Bear garden, Botanic garden, etc. See under Bear, etc.
 -- Hanging garden. See under Hanging.
 -- Kitchen garden, a garden where vegetables are cultivated for
household use.
 -- Market garden, a piece of ground where vegetable are cultivated
to be sold in the markets for table use.

GARDEN
Gar"den, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gardened; p. pr. & vb. n. Gardening.]

Defn: To lay out or cultivate a garden; to labor in a garden; to
practice horticulture.

GARDEN
Gar"den, v. t.

Defn: To cultivate as a garden.

GARDENER
Gar"den*er, n.

Defn: One who makes and tends a garden; a horticulturist.

GARDENIA
Garde"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, some species of which produce beautiful and
fragrant flowers; Cape jasmine; -- so called in honor of Dr.
Alexander Garden.

GARDENING
Gar"den*ing, n.

Defn: The art of occupation of laying out and cultivating gardens;
horticulture.

GARDENLESS
Gar"den*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of a garden. Shelley.

GARDENLY
Gar"den*ly, a.

Defn: Like a garden. [R.] W. Marshall.

GARDENSHIP
Gar"den*ship, n.

Defn: Horticulture. [Obs.]

GARDON
Gar"don, n. Etym: [F] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European cyprinoid fish; the id.

GARDYLOO
Gar`dy*loo", n. Etym: [F. gare l'eau beware of the water.]

Defn: An old cry in throwing water, slops, etc., from the windows in
Edingburgh. Sir. W. Scott.

GARE
Gare, n. Etym: [Cf. Gear.]

Defn: Coarse wool on the legs of sheep. Blount.

GAREFOWL
Gare"fowl`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The great auk; also, the razorbill. See Auk. [Written also
gairfowl, and gurfel.]

GARFISH
Gar"fish`, n. Etym: [See Gar, n.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A European marine fish (Belone vulgaris); -- called also gar,
gerrick, greenback, greenbone, gorebill, hornfish, longnose, mackerel
guide, sea needle, and sea pike.
(b) One of several species of similar fishes of the genus Tylosurus,
of which one species (T. marinus) is common on the Atlantic coast. T.
Caribbæus, a very large species, and T. crassus, are more southern; -
- called also needlefish. Many of the common names of the European
garfish are also applied to the American species.

GARGALIZE
Gar"ga*lize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Gargle, Gargarize.]

Defn: To gargle; to rinse. [Obs.] Marston.

GARGANEY
Gar"ga*ney, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European duck (Anas querquedula); -- called also
cricket teal, and summer teal.

GARGANTUAN
Gar*gan"tu*an, a. Etym: [From Gargantua, an allegorical hero of
Rabelais.]

Defn: Characteristic of Gargantua, a gigantic, wonderful personage;
enormous; prodigious; inordinate.

GARGARISM
Gar"ga*rism, n. Etym: [F. gargarisme, L. gargarisma. See Gargarize.]
(Med.)

Defn: A gargle.

GARGARIZE
Gar"ga*rize, v. t. Etym: [F. gargarizare, fr. Gr.

Defn: To gargle; to rinse or wash, as the mouth and throat. [Obs.]
Bacon.

GARGET
Garget, n. Etym: [OE. garget, gargate, throat, OF. gargate. Cf.
Gorge. The etymol. of senses 2, 3, & 4 is not certain.]

1. The throat. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A diseased condition of the udders of cows, etc., arising from an
inflammation of the mammary glands.

3. A distemper in hogs, indicated by staggering and loss of appetite.
Youatt.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: See Poke.

GARGIL
Gar"gil, n. Etym: [Cf. Garget, Gargoyle.]

Defn: A distemper in geese, affecting the head.

GARGLE
Gar"gle, n. (Arch.)

Defn: See Gargoyle.

GARGLE
Gar"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Garggled, p. pr. & vb. n. Gargling (
Etym: [F. gargouiller to dabble, paddle, gargle. Cf. Gargoyle,
Gurgle.]

1. To wash or rinse, as the mouth or throat, particular the latter,
agitating the liquid (water or a medicinal preparation) by an
expulsion of air from the lungs.

2. To warble; to sing as if gargling [Obs.] Waller.

GARGLE
Gar"gle, n.

Defn: A liquid, as water or some medicated preparation, used to
cleanse the mouth and throat, especially for a medical effect.

GARGOL
Gar"gol, n. Etym: [Cf. Gargil.]

Defn: A distemper in swine; garget. Mortimer.

GARGOULETTE
Gar`gou*lette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A water cooler or jug with a handle and spout; a gurglet.
Mollett.

GARGOYLE
Gar"goyle, n. Etym: [OE. garguilie, gargouille, cf. Sp. gárgola,
prob. fr. the same source as F. gorge throat, influenced by L.
gargarizare to gargle. See Gorge and cf. Gargle, Gargarize.] (Arch.)

Defn: A spout projecting from the roof gutter of a building, often
carved grotesquely. [Written also gargle, gargyle, and gurgoyle.]

GARGYLE
Gar"gyle, n. (Arch.)

Defn: See Gargoyle.

GARIBALDI
Ga`ri*bal"di, n.

1. A jacket worn by women; -- so called from its resemblance in shape
to the red shirt worn by the Italians patriot Garibaldi.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A California market fish (Pomancentrus rubicundus) of a deep
scarlet color.

GARISH
Gar"ish, a. Etym: [Cf. OE. gauren to stare; of uncertain origin. Cf.
gairish.]

1. Showy; dazzling; ostentatious; attracting or exciting attention.
"The garish sun." "A garish flag." Shak. "In . . . garish colors."
Asham. "The garish day." J. H. Newman.
Garish like the laughters of drunkenness. Jer. Taylor.

2. Gay to extravagance; flighty.
It makes the mind loose and garish. South.
-- Gar"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Garish*ness, n. Jer. Taylor.

GARLAND
Gar"land, n. Etym: [OE. garland, gerlond, OF. garlande, F. guirlande;
of uncertain origin; cf. OHG. wiara, wiera, crown, pure gold, MHG.
wieren to adorn.]

1. The crown of a king. [Obs.] Graffon.

2. A wreath of chaplet made of branches, flowers, or feathers, and
sometimes of precious stones, to be worn on the head like a crown; a
coronal; a wreath. Pope.

3. The top; the thing most prized. Shak.

4. A book of extracts in prose or poetry; an anthology.
They [ballads] began to be collected into little miscellanies under
the name of garlands. Percy.

5. (Naut.)
(a) A sort of netted bag used by sailors to keep provision in.
(b) A grommet or ring of rope lashed to a spar for convenience in
handling.

GARLAND
Gar"land, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Garlanded; p. pr. & vb. n. Garlanding.]

Defn: To deck with a garland. B. Jonson.

GARLANDLESS
Gar"land*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of a garland. Shelley.

GARLIC
Gar"lic, n. Etym: [OE. garlek, AS. garleác; gar spear, lance + leác
leek. See Gar, n., and Leek.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Allium (A. sativum is the cultivated
variety), having a bulbous root, a very strong smell, and an acrid,
pungent taste. Each root is composed of several lesser bulbs, called
cloves of garlic, inclosed in a common membranous coat, and easily
separable.

2. A kind of jig or farce. [Obs.] Taylor (1630). Garlic mustard, a
European plant of the Mustard family (Alliaria officinalis) which has
a strong smell of garlic.
 -- Garlic pear tree, a tree in Jamaica (Cratæva gynandra), bearing a
fruit which has a strong scent of garlic, and a burning taste.

GARLICKY
Gar"lick*y, a.

Defn: Like or containing garlic.

GARMENT
Gar"ment, n. Etym: [OE. garnement, OF. garnement, garniment, fr.
garnir to garnish. See Garnish.]

Defn: Any article of clothing, as a coat, a gown, etc.
No man putteth a piece of new cloth unto old garment. Matt. ix. 16.

GARMENTED
Gar"ment*ed, p. a.

Defn: Having on a garment; attired; enveloped, as with a garment.
[Poetic]
A lovely lady garmented in light From her own beauty. Shelley.

GARMENTURE
Gar"men*ture, n.

Defn: Clothing; dress.

GARNER
Gar"ner, n. Etym: [OE. garner, gerner, greiner, OF. gernier, grenier,
F. grenier, fr. L. granarium, fr. granum. See 1st Grain, and cf.
Granary.]

Defn: A granary; a building or place where grain is stored for
preservation.

GARNER
Gar"ner, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Garnered; p. pr. & vb. n. Garnering.]

Defn: To gather for preservation; to store, as in a granary; to
treasure. Shak.

GARNET
Gar"net, n. Etym: [OE. gernet, grenat, OF. grenet,grenat, F. grenat,
LL. granatus, fr. L. granatum pomegranate, granatus having many
grains or seeds, fr. granum grain, seed. So called from its
resemblance in color and shape to the grains or seeds of the
pomegranate. See Grain, and cf. Grenade, Pomegranate.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral having many varieties differing in color and in their
constituents, but with the same crystallization (isometric), and
conforming to the same general chemical formula. The commonest color
is red, the luster is vitreous, and the hardness greater than that of
quartz. The dodecahedron and trapezohedron are the common forms.

Note: There are also white, green, yellow, brown, and black
varieties. The garnet is a silicate, the bases being aluminia lime
(grossularite, essonite, or cinnamon stone), or aluminia magnesia
(pyrope), or aluminia iron (almandine), or aluminia manganese
(spessartite), or iron lime (common garnet, melanite, allochroite),
or chromium lime (ouvarovite, color emerald green). The transparent
red varieties are used as gems. The garnet was, in part, the
carbuncle of the ancients. Garnet is a very common mineral in gneiss
and mica slate. Garnet berry (Bot.), the red currant; -- so called
from its transparent red color.
 -- Garnet brown (Chem.), an artificial dyestuff, produced as an
explosive brown crystalline substance with a green or golden luster.
It consists of the potassium salt of a complex cyanogen derivative of
picric acid.

GARNET
Gar"net, n. Etym: [Etymol. unknown.] (Naut.)

Defn: A tackle for hoisting cargo in our out. Clew garnet. See under
Clew.

GARNETIFEROUS
Gar`net*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [1st garnet + -ferous.] (Min.)

Defn: Containing garnets.

GARNIERITE
Gar"ni*er*ite, n. Etym: [Named after the French geologist Garnier.]
(Min.)

Defn: An amorphous mineral of apple-green color; a hydrous silicate
of nickel and magnesia. It is an important ore of nickel.

GARNISH
Gar"nish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Garnished; p. pr. & vb. n. Garnishing.]
Etym: [OE. garnischen, garnissen, OF. garnir to provide, strengthen,
prepare, garnish, warn, F. garnir to provide, furnish, garnish, -- of
German origin; cf. OHG. warnon to provide, equip; akin to G. wahren
to watch, E. aware, ware, wary, and cf. also E. warn. See Wary, -ish,
and cf. Garment, Garrison.]

1. To decorate with ornamental appendages; to set off; to adorn; to
embellish.
All within with flowers was garnished. Spenser.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: To ornament, as a dish, with something laid about it; as, a
dish garnished with parsley.

3. To furnish; to supply.

4. To fit with fetters. [Cant] Johnson.

5. (Law)

Defn: To warn by garnishment; to give notice to; to garnishee. See
Garnishee, v. t. Cowell.

GARNISH
Gar"nish, n.

1. Something added for embellishment; decoration; ornament; also,
dress; garments, especially such as are showy or decorated.
So are you, sweet, Even in the lovely garnish of a boy. Shak.
Matter and figure they produce; For garnish this, and that for use.
Prior.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: Something set round or upon a dish as an embellishment. See
Garnish, v. t., 2. Smart.

3. Fetters. [Cant]

4. A fee; specifically, in English jails, formerly an unauthorized
fee demanded by the old prisoners of a newcomer. [Cant] Fielding.
Garnish bolt (Carp.), a bolt with a chamfered or faceted head.
Knight.

GARNISHEE
Gar`nish*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: One who is garnished; a person upon whom garnishment has been
served in a suit by a creditor against a debtor, such person holding
property belonging to the debtor, or owing him money.

Note: The order by which warning is made is called a garnishee order.

GARNISHEE
Gar`nish*ee", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Garnisheed (-ed); p. pr. & vb. n.
Garnisheeing.] (Law)
(a) To make (a person) a garnishee; to warn by garnishment; to
garnish.
(b) To attach (the fund or property sought to be secured by
garnishment); to trustee.

GARNISHER
Gar"nish*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, garnishes.

GARNISHMENT
Gar"nish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. garnissement protection, guarantee,
warning.]

1. Ornament; embellishment; decoration. Sir H. Wotton.

2. (Law)
(a) Warning, or legal notice, to one to appear and give information
to the court on any matter.
(b) Warning to a person in whose hands the effects of another are
attached, not to pay the money or deliver the goods to the defendant,
but to appear in court and give information as garnishee.

3. A fee. See Garnish, n., 4.

GARNITURE
Gar"ni*ture, n. Etym: [F. garniture. See Garnish, v. t.]

Defn: That which garnishes; ornamental appendage; embellishment;
furniture; dress.
The pomp of groves and garniture of fields. Beattie.

GAROOKUH
Ga*roo"kuh, n.

Defn: A small fishing vessel met with in the Persian Gulf.

GAROUS
Ga"rous, a. Etym: [From Garum.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, garum. Sir T. Browne.

GAR PIKE; GARPIKE
Gar" pike` or; Gar"pike`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See under Gar.

GARRAN
Gar"ran, n. Etym: [Gael. garrán, gearrán, gelding, work horse, hack.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Galloway. [Scot. garron or gerron. Jamieson.]

GARRET
Gar"ret, n. Etym: [OE. garite, garette, watchtower, place of lookout,
OF. garite, also meaning, a place of refuge, F. guérite a place of
refuge, donjon, sentinel box, fr. OF. garir to preserve, save,
defend, F. guérir to cure; of German origin; cf. OHG. werian to
protect, defend, hinder, G. wehren, akin to Goth. warjan to hinder,
and akin to E. weir, or perhaps to wary. See Weir, and cf. Guerite.]

1. A turret; a watchtower. [Obs.]
He saw men go up and down on the garrets of the gates and walls. Ld.
Berners.

2. That part of a house which is on the upper floor, immediately
under or within the roof; an attic.
The tottering garrets which overhung the streets of Rome. Macaulay.

GARRETED
Gar"ret*ed, a.

Defn: Protected by turrets. [Obs.] R. Carew.

GARRETEER
Gar`ret*eer", n.

Defn: One who lives in a garret; a poor author; a literary hack.
Macaulay.

GARRETING
Gar"ret*ing, n.

Defn: Small splinters of stone inserted into the joints of coarse
masonry. Weale.

GARRISON
Gar"ri*son, n. Etym: [OE. garnisoun, F. garnison garrison, in OF. &
OE. also, provision, munitions, from garnir to garnish. See Garnish.]
(Mil.)
(a) A body of troops stationed in a fort or fortified town.
(b) A fortified place, in which troops are quartered for its
security. In garrison, in the condition of a garrison; doing duty in
a fort or as one of a garrison.

GARRISON
Gar"ri*son, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Garrisoned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Garrisoning.] (Mil.)
(a) To place troops in, as a fortification, for its defense; to
furnish with soldiers; as, to garrison a fort or town.
(b) To secure or defend by fortresses manned with troops; as, to
garrison a conquered territory.

GARRON
Gar"ron, n.

Defn: Same as Garran. [Scot.]

GARROT
Gar"rot, n. Etym: [F. Cf. Garrote.] (Surg.)

Defn: A stick or small wooden cylinder used for tightening a bandage,
in order to compress the arteries of a limb.

GARROT
Gar"rot, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European golden-eye.

GARROTE
Gar*rote", n. Etym: [Sp. garrote, from garra claw, talon, of Celtic
origin; cf. Armor. & W. gar leg, ham, shank. Cf. Garrot stick,
Garter.]

Defn: A Spanish mode of execution by strangulation, with an iron
collar affixed to a post and tightened by a screw until life become
extinct; also, the instrument by means of which the punishment is
inflicted.

GARROTE
Gar*rote", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Garroted; p. pr. & vb. n. Garroting.]

Defn: To strangle with the garrote; hence, to seize by the throat,
from behind, with a view to strangle and rob.

GARROTER
Gar*rot"er, n.

Defn: One who seizes a person by the throat from behind, with a view
to strangle and rob him.

GARRULITY
Gar*ru"li*ty, n. Etym: [L. garrulitas: cf. F. garrulité.]

Defn: Talkativeness; loquacity.

GARRULOUS
Gar"ru*lous, a. Etym: [L. garrulus, fr. garrire to chatter, talk; cf.
Gr. Call.]

1. Talking much, especially about commonplace or trivial things;
talkative; loquacious.
The most garrulous people on earth. De Quincey.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a loud, harsh note; noisy; -- said of birds; as, the
garrulous roller.

Syn.
 -- Garrulous, Talkative, Loquacious. A garrulous person indulges in
long, prosy talk, with frequent repetitions and lengthened details;
talkative implies simply a great desire to talk; and loquacious a
great flow of words at command. A child is talkative; a lively woman
is loquacious; an old man in his dotage is garrulous.
 -- Gar"ru*lous*ly, adv.
 -- Gar"ru*lous*ness, n.

GARRUPA
Gar*ru"pa, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. Pg. garupa crupper. Cf. Grouper the
fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of California market fishes, of the
genus Sebastichthys; -- called also rockfish. See Rockfish.

GARTER
Gar"ter, n. Etym: [OE. gartier, F. jarretière, fr. OF. garet bend of
the knee, F. jarret; akin to Sp. garra claw, Prov. garra leg. See
Garrote.]

1. A band used to prevent a stocking from slipping down on the leg.

2. The distinguishing badge of the highest order of knighthood in
Great Britain, called the Order of the Garter, instituted by Edward
III.; also, the Order itself.

3. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Bendlet. Garter fish (Zoöl.), a fish of the genus
Lepidopus, having a long, flat body, like the blade of a sword; the
scabbard fish.
 -- Garter king-at-arms, the chief of the official heralds of
England, king-at-arms to the Order of the Garter; -- often
abbreviated to Garter.
 -- Garter snake (Zoöl.), one of several harmless American snakes of
the genus Eutænia, of several species (esp. E. saurita and E.
sirtalis); one of the striped snakes; -- so called from its
conspicuous stripes of color.

GARTER
Gar"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gartered; p. pr. & vb. n. Gartering.]

1. To bind with a garter.
He . . . could not see to garter his hose. Shak.

2. To invest with the Order of the Garter. T. Warton.

GARTER STITCH
Garter stitch.

Defn: The simplest stitch in knitting.

GARTH
Garth, n. Etym: [Icel. gar yard. See Yard.]

1. A close; a yard; a croft; a garden; as, a cloister garth.
A clapper clapping in a garth To scare the fowl from fruit. Tennyson.

2. A dam or weir for catching fish.

GARTH
Garth, n. Etym: [Girth.]

Defn: A hoop or band. [Prov. Eng.]

GARUM
Ga"rum, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: A sauce made of small fish. It was prized by the ancients.

GARVIE
Gar"vie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The spart; -- called also garvie herring, and garvock. [Prov.
Eng. & Scot.]

GAS
Gas, n.; pl. Gases. Etym: [Invented by the chemist Van Helmont of
Brussels, who died in 1644.]

1. An aëriform fluid; -- a term used at first by chemists as
synonymous with air, but since restricted to fluids supposed to be
permanently elastic, as oxygen, hydrogen, etc., in distinction from
vapors, as steam, which become liquid on a reduction of temperature.
In present usage, since all of the supposed permanent gases have been
liquified by cold and pressure, the term has resumed nearly its
original signification, and is applied to any substance in the
elastic or aëriform state.

2. (Popular Usage)
(a) A complex mixture of gases, of which the most important
constituents are marsh gas, olefiant gas, and hydrogen, artificially
produced by the destructive distillation of gas coal, or sometimes of
peat, wood, oil, resin, etc. It gives a brilliant light when burned,
and is the common gas used for illuminating purposes.
(b) Laughing gas.
(c) Any irrespirable aëriform fluid.

Note: Gas is often used adjectively or in combination; as, gas fitter
or gasfitter; gas meter or gas-meter, etc. Air gas (Chem.), a kind of
gas made by forcing air through some volatile hydrocarbon, as the
lighter petroleums. The air is so saturated with combustible vapor as
to be a convenient illuminating and heating agent.
 -- Gas battery (Elec.), a form of voltaic battery, in which gases,
especially hydrogen and oxygen, are the active agents.
 -- Gas carbon, Gas coke, etc. See under Carbon, Coke, etc.
 -- Gas coal, a bituminous or hydrogenous coal yielding a high
percentage of volatile matters, and therefore available for the
manufacture of illuminating gas. R. W. Raymond.
 -- Gas engine, an engine in which the motion of the piston is
produced by the combustion or sudden production or expansion of gas;
-- especially, an engine in which an explosive mixture of gas and air
is forced into the working cylinder and ignited there by a gas flame
or an electric spark.
 -- Gas fitter, one who lays pipes and puts up fixtures for gas.
 -- Gas fitting. (a) The occupation of a gas fitter. (b) pl. The
appliances needed for the introduction of gas into a building, as
meters, pipes, burners, etc.
 -- Gas fixture, a device for conveying illuminating or combustible
gas from the pipe to the gas-burner, consisting of an appendage of
cast, wrought, or drawn metal, with tubes upon which the burners,
keys, etc., are adjusted.
 -- Gas generator, an apparatus in which gas is evolved; as: (a) a
retort in which volatile hydrocarbons are evolved by heat; (b) a
machine in which air is saturated with the vapor of liquid
hydrocarbon; a carburetor; (c) a machine for the production of
carbonic acid gas, for aërating water, bread, etc. Knight.
 -- Gas jet, a flame of illuminating gas.
 -- Gas machine, an apparatus for carbureting air for use as
illuminating gas.
 -- Gas meter, an instrument for recording the quantity of gas
consumed in a given time, at a particular place.
 -- Gas retort, a retort which contains the coal and other materials,
and in which the gas is generated, in the manufacture of gas.
 -- Gas stove, a stove for cooking or other purposes, heated by gas.
 -- Gas tar, coal tar.
 -- Gas trap, a drain trap; a sewer trap. See 4th Trap, 5.
 -- Gas washer (Gas Works), an apparatus within which gas from the
condenser is brought in contact with a falling stream of water, to
precipitate the tar remaining in it. Knight.
 -- Gas water, water through which gas has been passed for
purification; -- called also gas liquor and ammoniacal water, and
used for the manufacture of sal ammoniac, carbonate of ammonia, and
Prussian blue. Tomlinson.
 -- Gas well, a deep boring, from which natural gas is discharged.
Raymond.
 -- Gas works, a manufactory of gas, with all the machinery and
appurtenances; a place where gas is generated for lighting cities.
 -- Laughing gas. See under Laughing.
 -- Marsh gas (Chem.), a light, combustible, gaseous hydrocarbon,
CH4, produced artificially by the dry distillation of many organic
substances, and occurring as a natural product of decomposition in
stagnant pools, whence its name. It is an abundant ingredient of
ordinary illuminating gas, and is the first member of the paraffin
series. Called also methane, and in coal mines, fire damp.
 -- Natural gas, gas obtained from wells, etc., in Pennsylvania,
Ohio, and elsewhere, and largely used for fuel and illuminating
purposes. It is chiefly derived from the Coal Measures.
 -- Olefiant gas (Chem.). See Ethylene.
 -- Water gas (Chem.), a kind of gas made by forcing steam over
glowing coals, whereby there results a mixture of hydrogen and carbon
monoxide. This gives a gas of intense heating power, but destitute of
light-giving properties, and which is charged by passing through some
volatile hydrocarbon, as gasoline.synthesis gas

GASALIER
Gas`a*lier", n. Etym: [Formed from gas, in imitation of chandelier.]

Defn: A chandelier arranged to burn gas.

GAS-BURNER
Gas"-burn`er, n.

Defn: The jet piece of a gas fixture where the gas is burned as it
escapes from one or more minute orifices.

GASCOINES
Gas"coines, n. pl.

Defn: See Gaskins, 1. Lyly.

GASCON
Gas"con (; F. ), a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Gascony, in France, or to the Gascons;
also, braggart; swaggering.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Gascony; a boaster; a bully. See Gasconade.

GASCONADE
Gas`con*ade", n. Etym: [F. gasconnade, from Gascon an inhabitant of
Gascony, the people of which were noted for boasting.]

Defn: A boast or boasting; a vaunt; a bravado; a bragging;
braggodocio. Swift.

GASCONADE
Gas`con*ade", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gasconaded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gasconading.]

Defn: To boast; to brag; to bluster.

GASCONADER
Gas`con*ad"er, n.

Defn: A great boaster; a blusterer.

GASCOYNES
Gas"coynes, n. pl.

Defn: Gaskins. Beau & Fl.

GASEITY
Gas*e"i*ty ( or ), n.

Defn: State of being gaseous. [R] Eng. Cyc.

GASELIER
Gas`e*lier", n. [Formed from gas, in imitation of chandelier.]

Defn: A chandelier arranged to burn gas.

GAS ENGINE
Gas engine. (Mach.)

Defn: A kind of internal-combustion engine (which see) using fixed
gas; also, broadly, any internal-combustion engine.

GASEOUS
Gas"e*ous ( or ; 277), a. Etym: [From Gas. Cf. F. gazeux.]

1. In the form, or of the nature, of gas, or of an aëriform fluid.

2. Lacking substance or solidity; tenuous. "Unconnected, gaseous
information." Sir J. Stephen.

GASH
Gash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gashing.] Etym:
[For older garth or garse, OF. garser to scarify, F. gercer to chap,
perh. from an assumed LL. carptiare, fr. L. carpere, carptum, to
pluck, separate into parts; cf. LL. carptare to wound. Cf. Carpet.]

Defn: To make a gash, or long, deep incision in; -- applied chiefly
to incisions in flesh.
Grievously gashed or gored to death. Hayward.

GASH
Gash, n.

Defn: A deep and long cut; an incision of considerable length and
depth, particularly in flesh.

GASHFUL
Gash"ful, a.

Defn: Full of gashes; hideous; frightful. [Obs.] "A gashful, horrid,
ugly shape." Gayton.

GASIFICATION
Gas`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [See Gasify.]

Defn: The act or process of converting into gas.

GASIFORM
Gas"i*form, a.

Defn: Having a form of gas; gaseous.

GASIFY
Gas"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gasified; p. pr. & vb. n. Gasifying.]
Etym: [Gas + -fy.]

Defn: To convert into gas, or an aëriform fluid, as by the
application of heat, or by chemical processes.

GASIFY
Gas"i*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become gas; to pass from a liquid to a gaseous state.
Scientific American.

GASKET
Gas"ket, n. Etym: [Cf. F. garcette, It. gaschetta, Sp. cajeta caburn,
garceta reef point.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A line or band used to lash a furled sail securely. Sea gaskets
are common lines; harbor gaskets are plaited and decorated lines or
bands. Called also casket.

2. (Mech.)
(a) The plaited hemp used for packing a piston, as of the steam
engine and its pumps.
(b) Any ring or washer of packing.

GASKINS
Gas"kins, n.pl. Etym: [Cf. Galligaskins.]

1. Loose hose or breeches; galligaskins. [Obs.] Shak.

2. Packing of hemp. Simmonds.

3. A horse's thighs. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

GASLIGHT
Gas"light`, n.

1. The light yielded by the combustion of illuminating gas.

2. A gas jet or burner.

GASOGEN
Gas"o*gen, n. Etym: [Gas + -gen.]

1. An apparatus for the generation of gases, or for impregnating a
liquid with a gas, or a gas with a volatile liquid.

2. A volatile hydrocarbon, used as an illuminant, or for charging
illuminating gas.

GASOLENE
Gas`o*lene, n.

Defn: See Gasoline.

GASOLIER
Gas`o*lier", n.

Defn: Same as Gasalier.

GASOLINE
Gas"o*line ( or ; 104), n.

Defn: A highly volatile mixture of fluid hydrocarbons, obtained from
petroleum, as also by the distillation of bituminous coal. It is used
in making air gas, and in giving illuminating power to water gas. See
Carburetor.

GASOLINE ENGINE; GASOLENE ENGINE
Gas"o*line, or Gas"o*lene, en"gine . (Mach.)

Defn: A kind of internal-combustion engine; -- in British countries
called usually petrol engine.

GASOMETER
Gas*om"e*ter ( or ), n. Etym: [Gas + -meter. Cf. F. gazomètre.]

Defn: An apparatus for holding and measuring of gas; in gas works, a
huge iron cylinder closed at one end and having the other end
immersed in water, in which it is made to rise or fall, according to
the volume of gas it contains, or the pressure required.

GASOMETRIC; GASOMETRICAL
Gas`o*met"ric or; Gas`o*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the measurement of gases; as, gasometric
analysis.

GASOMETRY
Gas*om"e*try ( or ), n.

Defn: The art or practice of measuring gases; also, the science which
treats of the nature and properties of these elastic fluids. Coxe.

GASOSCOPE
Gas"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gas + -scope.]

Defn: An apparatus for detecting the presence of any dangerous gas,
from a gas leak in a coal mine or a dwelling house.

GASP
Gasp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gasped; p. pr. & vb. n. Gasping.] Etym:
[OE. gaspen, gaispen, to yawn, gasp, Icel. geispa to yawn; akin to
Sw. gäspa, Dan. gispe to gasp.]

1. To open the mouth wide in catching the breath, or in laborious
respiration; to labor for breath; to respire convulsively; to pant
violently.
She gasps and struggles hard for life. Lloyd.

2. To pant with eagerness; to show vehement desire.
Quenching the gasping furrows' thirst with rain. Spenser.

GASP
Gasp, v. t.

Defn: To emit or utter with gasps; -- with forth, out, away, etc.
And with short sobs he gasps away his breath. Dryden.

GASP
Gasp, n.

Defn: The act of opening the mouth convulsively to catch the breath;
a labored respiration; a painful catching of the breath. At the last
gasp, at the point of death. Addison.

GASPEREAU
Gas"per*eau, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The alewife. [Local, Canada]

GASSERIAN
Gas*se"ri*an, a.

Defn: Relating to Casserio (L. Gasserius), the discover of the
Gasserian ganglion. Gasserian ganglion (Anat.), a large ganglion, at
the root of the trigeminal, or fifth cranial, nerve.

GASSING
Gas"sing, n.

1. (Manuf.)

Defn: The process of passing cotton goods between two rollers and
exposing them to numerous minute jets of gas to burn off the small
fibers; any similar process of singeing.

2. Boasting; insincere or empty talk. [Slang]

GASSY
Gas"sy, a.

Defn: Full of gas; like gas. Hence: [Colloq.] Inflated; full of
boastful or insincere talk.

GAST
Gast, v. t. Etym: [OE. gasten, g to frighten, akin to Goth.
usgaisjan. See Aghast, Ghastly, and cf. Gaze.]

Defn: To make aghast; to frighten; to terrify. See Aghast. [Obs.]
Chaucer. Shak.

GASTER
Gast"er, v. t.

Defn: To gast. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

GASTEROMYCETES
Gas`te*ro*my*ce"tes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An order of fungi, in which the spores are borne inside a sac
called the peridium, as in the puffballs.

GASTEROPOD
Gas"ter*o*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Gastropod.

GASTEROPODA
Gas`te*rop`o*da, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Gastropoda.

GASTEROPODOUS
Gas`ter*op"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Gastropodous.

GASTFUL; GASTLY
Gast"ful, Gast"ly (, a. [Obs.]

Defn: See Ghastful, Ghastly.

GASTIGHT
Gas"tight`, a.

Defn: So tightly fitted as to preclude the escape of gas; impervious
to gas.

GASTNESS
Gast"ness, n.

Defn: See Ghastness. [Obs.]

GASTORNIS
Gas*tor"nis, n. Etym: [NL., from Gaston M. Plante, the discover + Gr.
(Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of large eocene birds from the Paris basin.

GASTRAEA
Gas*træ"a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A primeval larval form; a double-walled sac from which,
according to the hypothesis of Haeckel, man and all other animals,
that in the first stages of their individual evolution pass through a
two-layered structural stage, or gastrula form, must have descended.
This idea constitutes the Gastræa theory of Haeckel. See Gastrula.

GASTRALGIA
Gas*tral"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Pain in the stomach or epigastrium, as in gastric disorders.

GASTRIC
Gas"tric, a. Etym: [Gr. gastrique.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the stomach; as, the
gastric artery. Gastric digestion (Physiol.), the conversion of the
albuminous portion of food in the stomach into soluble and diffusible
products by the solvent action of gastric juice.
 -- Gastric fever (Med.), a fever attended with prominent gastric
symptoms; -- a name applied to certain forms of typhoid fever; also,
to catarrhal inflammation of the stomach attended with fever.
 -- Gastric juice (Physiol.), a thin, watery fluid, with an acid
reaction, secreted by a peculiar set of glands contained in the
mucous membrane of the stomach. It consists mainly of dilute
hydrochloric acid and the ferment pepsin. It is the most important
digestive fluid in the body, but acts only on proteid foods.
 -- Gastric remittent fever (Med.), a form of remittent fever with
pronounced stomach symptoms.

GASTRILOQUIST
Gas*tril"o*quist, n. Etym: [Gr. gasth`r, gastro`s, stomach + L. loqui
to speak.]

Defn: One who appears to speak from his stomach; a ventriloquist.

GASTRILOQUOUS
Gas*tril"o*quous, a.

Defn: Ventriloquous. [R.]

GASTRILOQUY
Gas*tril"o*quy, n.

Defn: A voice or utterance which appears to proceed from the stomach;
ventriloquy.

GASTRITIS
Gas*tri"tis, n. Etym: [NL., from. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the stomach, esp. of its mucuos membrane.

GASTRO-
Gas"tro-.

Defn: A combining form from the Gr. gastrocolic, gastrocele,
gastrotomy.

GASTROCNEMIUS
Gas`troc*ne"mi*us, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The muscle which makes the greater part of the calf of the leg.

GASTROCOLIC
Gas`tro*col"ic, a. Etym: [Gastro- + colic.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to both the stomach and the colon; as, the
gastrocolic, or great, omentum.

GASTRODISC
Gas`tro*disc, n. Etym: [Gastro- + disc.] (Biol.)

Defn: That part of blastoderm where the hypoblast appears like a
small disk on the inner face of the epibladst.

GASTRODUODENAL
Gas`tro*du"o*de"nal, a. Etym: [Gastro- + -duodenal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the stomach and duodenum; as, the gastroduodenal
artery.

GASTRODUODENITIS
Gas`tro*du`o*de*ni"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Gastroduodenal, and -itis.]
(Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the stomach and duodenum. It is one of the most
frequent causes of jaundice.

GASTROELYTROTOMY
Gas`tro*el`y*trot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gastro- + Gr (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of cutting into the upper part of the vagina,
through the abdomen (without opening the peritoneum), for the purpose
of removing a fetus. It is a substitute for the Cæsarean operation,
and less dangerous.

GASTROENTERIC
Gas`tro*en*te"ric, a. Etym: [Gastro- + -enteric.] (Anat. & Med.)

Defn: Gastrointestinal.

GASTROENTERITIS
Gas`tro*en`te*ri"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Gastroenrteric, and -itis.]
(Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the lining membrane of the stomach and the
intestines.

GASTROEPIPLOIC
Gas`tro*ep`i*plo"ic, a. Etym: [Gastro- + -epiploic.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the stomach and omentum.

GASTROHEPATIC
Gas`tro*he*pat"ic, a. Etym: [Gastro- + -hepatic.] (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to the stomach and liver; hepatogastric; as, the
gastrohepatic, or lesser, omentum.

GASTROHYSTEROTOMY
Gas`tro*hys`ter*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gastro- + GR. to cut.] (Surg.)

Defn: Cæsarean section. See under Cæsarean.

GASTROINTESTINAL
Gas`tro*in*tes"ti*nal, a. Etym: [Gastro- + -intestinal.] (Anat. &
Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the stomach and intestines; gastroenteric.

GASTROLITH
Gas`tro*lith, n. Etym: [Gastro- + -lith.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Crab's eyes, under Crab.

GASTROLOGY
Gas*trol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr gastrologie.]

Defn: The science which treats of the structure and functions of the
stomach; a treatise of the stomach.

GASTROMALACIA
Gas`tro*ma*la"ci*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A softening of the coats of the stomach; -- usually a post-
morten change.

GASTROMANCY
Gas`tro*man"cy, n. Etym: [Gastro- + -mancy: cf. F. gastromancy.]
(Antiq.)
(a) A kind of divination, by means of words seemingly uttered from
the stomach.
(b) A species of divination, by means of glasses or other round,
transparent vessels, in the center of which figures are supposed to
appear by magic art.

GASTROMYCES
Gas`tro*my"ces, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The fungoid growths sometimes found in the stomach; such as
Torula, etc.

GASTROMYTH
Gas"tro*myth, n. Etym: [Gastro- + Gr.

Defn: One whose voice appears to proceed from the stomach; a
ventriloquist. [Obs.]

GASTRONOME; GASTRONOMER
Gas"tro*nome, Gas*tron"o*mer, n. Etym: [F. gastronome, fr. Gr.

Defn: One fond of good living; an epicure. Sir W. Scott.

GASTRONOMIC; GASTRONOMICAL
Gas`tro*nom"ic, Gas`tro*nom"ic*al (, a. Etym: [Cf. F. gastronomique.]

Defn: Pertaining to gastromony.

GASTRONOMIST
Gas*tron"o*mist, n.

Defn: A gastromomer.

GASTRONOMY
Gas*tron"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. gastronomie.]

Defn: The art or science of good eating; epicurism; the art of good
cheer.

GASTROPHRENIC
Gas`tro*phren"ic, a. Etym: [Gastro- + -phrenic.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the stomach and diaphragm; as, the gastrophrenic
ligament.

GASTROPNEUMATIC
Gas`tro*pneu*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gastro- + pneumatic.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the alimentary canal and air passages, and to the
cavities connected with them; as, the gastropneumatic mucuos
membranes.

GASTROPOD
Gas"tro*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Gastropoda. [Written also gasteropod.]

GASTROPODA
Gas*trop"o*da, n. pl., Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the classes of Mollusca, of great extent. It includes
most of the marine spiral shells, and the land and fresh-water
snails. They generally creep by means of a flat, muscular disk, or
foot, on the ventral side of the body. The head usually bears one or
two pairs of tentacles. See Mollusca. [Written also Gasteropoda.]

Note: The Gastropoda are divided into three subclasses; viz.: (a) The
Streptoneura or Dioecia, including the Pectinibranchiata,
Rhipidoglossa, Docoglossa, and Heteropoda. (b) The Euthyneura,
including the Pulmonata and Opisthobranchia. (c) The Amphineura,
including the Polyplacophora and Aplacophora.

GASTROPODOUS
Gas*trop"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Gastropoda.

GASTRORAPHY
Gas*tror"a*phy, n. Etym: [Gr.gastrorrhaphie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of sewing up wounds of the abdomen. Quincy.

GASTROSCOPE
Gas"tro*scope, n. Etym: [Gastro- + -scope.] (Med.)

Defn: An instrument for viewing or examining the interior of the
stomach.

GASTROSCOPIC
Gas`tro*scop"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to gastroscopy.

GASTROSCOPY
Gas*tros"co*py, n. (Med.)

Defn: Examination of the abdomen or stomach, as with the gastroscope.

GASTROSPLENIC
Gas`tro*splen"ic, n. Etym: [Gastro- + splenic.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the stomach and spleen; as, the gastrosplenic
ligament.

GASTROSTEGE
Gas*tros"tege, n. Etym: [Gastro- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the large scales on the belly of a serpent.

GASTROSTOMY
Gas*tros"to*my, n. Etym: [Gastro- + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of making a permanent opening into the stomach,
for the introduction of food.

GASTROTOMY
Gas*trot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gastro + Gr. gastrotomie.] (Surg.)

Defn: A cutting into, or opening of, the abdomen or the stomach.

GASTROTRICHA
Gas*trot"ri*cha, n. pl., Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of small wormlike animals, having cilia on the ventral
side. The group is regarded as an ancestral or synthetic one, related
to rotifers and annelids.

GASTROTROCHA
Gas*trot"ro*cha, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A form of annelid larva having cilia on the ventral side.

GASTROVASCULAR
Gas`tro*vas"cu*lar, a. Etym: [Gastro- + -vascular.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the structure, or performing the functions, both of
digestive and circulatory organs; as, the gastrovascular cavity of
coelenterates.

GASTRULA
Gas"tru*la, n.; pl. Gastrulæ Etym: [NL., dim. fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: An embryonic form having its origin in the invagination or
pushing in of the wall of the planula or blastula (the blastosphere)
on one side, thus giving rise to a double-walled sac, with one
opening or mouth (the blastopore) which leads into the cavity (the
archenteron) lined by the inner wall (the hypoblast). See Illust.
under Invagination. In a more general sense, an ideal stage in
embryonic development. See Gastræa.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a gastrula.

GASTRULATION
Gas`tru*la"tion, n. (Biol.)

Defn: The process of invagination, in embryonic development, by which
a gastrula is formed.

GASTRURA
Gas*tru"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Stomatopoda.

GASTRUROUS
Gas*tru"rous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Gastrura.

GAT
Gat,

Defn: imp. of Get. [Obs.]

GATCH
Gatch, n. [Per. gach mortar.]

Defn: Plaster as used in Persian architecture and decorative art.

Gatch decoration, decoration in plaster often producing design of
great beauty. -- Gatch work, work in which gatch is employed; also,
articles of gatch ornamentation collectively.

GATE
Gate, n. Etym: [OE. et, , giat, gate, door, AS. geat, gat, gate,
door; akin to OS., D., & Icel. gat opening, hole, and perh. to E.
gate a way, gait, and get, v. Cf. Gate a way in the wall, 3d Get.]

1. A large door or passageway in the wall of a city, of an inclosed
field or place, or of a grand edifice, etc.; also, the movable
structure of timber, metal, etc., by which the passage can be closed.

2. An opening for passage in any inclosing wall, fence, or barrier;
or the suspended framework which closes or opens a passage. Also,
figuratively, a means or way of entrance or of exit.
Knowest thou the way to Dover Both stile and gate, horse way and
footpath. Shak.
Opening a gate for a long war. Knolles.

3. A door, valve, or other device, for stopping the passage of water
through a dam, lock, pipe, etc.

4. (Script.)

Defn: The places which command the entrances or access; hence, place
of vantage; power; might.
The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Matt. xvi. 18.

5. In a lock tumbler, the opening for the stump of the bolt to pass
through or into.

6. (Founding)
(a) The channel or opening through which metal is poured into the
mold; the ingate.
(b) The waste piece of metal cast in the opening; a sprue or sullage
piece. [Written also geat and git.] Gate chamber, a recess in the
side wall of a canal lock, which receives the opened gate.
 -- Gate channel. See Gate, 5.
 -- Gate hook, the hook-formed piece of a gate hinge.
 -- Gate money, entrance money for admission to an inclosure.
 -- Gate tender, one in charge of a gate, as at a railroad crossing.
 -- Gate valva, a stop valve for a pipe, having a sliding gate which
affords a straight passageway when open.
 -- Gate vein (Anat.), the portal vein.
 -- To break gates (Eng. Univ.), to enter a college inclosure after
the hour to which a student has been restricted.
 -- To stand in the gate, or gates, to occupy places or advantage,
power, or defense.

GATE
Gate, v. t.

1. To supply with a gate.

2. (Eng. Univ.) To punish by requiring to be within the gates at an
earlier hour than usual.

GATE
Gate, n. Etym: [Icel. gata; akin to SW. gata street, lane, Dan. gade,
Goth. gatwö, G. gasse. Cf. Gate a door, Gait.]

1. A way; a path; a road; a street (as in Highgate). [O. Eng. &
Scot.]
I was going to be an honest man; but the devil has this very day
flung first a lawyer, and then a woman, in my gate. Sir W. Scott.

2. Manner; gait. [O. Eng. & Scot.]

GATED
Gat"ed, a.

Defn: Having gates. Young.

GATEHOUSE
Gate"house`, n.

Defn: A house connected or associated with a gate.

GATELESS
Gate"less, a.

Defn: Having no gate.

GATEMAN
Gate"man, n.

Defn: A gate keeper; a gate tender.

GATEPOST
Gate"post`, n.

1. A post to which a gate is hung; -- called also swinging or hinging
post.

2. A post against which a gate closes; -- called also shutting post.

GATEWAY
Gate"way`, n.

Defn: A passage through a fence or wall; a gate; also, a frame, arch,
etc., in which a gate in hung, or a structure at an entrance or gate
designed for ornament or defense.

GATEWISE
Gate"wise`, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a gate.
Three circles of stones set up gatewise. Fuller.

GATHER
Gath"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gathered; p. pr. & vb. n. Gathering.]
Etym: [OE. gaderen, AS. gaderian, gadrian, fr. gador, geador,
together, fr. gæd fellowship; akin to E. good, D. gaderen to collect,
G. gatte husband, MHG. gate, also companion, Goth. gadiliggs a
sister's son. sq. root29. See Good, and cf. Together.]

1. To bring together; to collect, as a number of separate things,
into one place, or into one aggregate body; to assemble; to muster;
to congregate.
And Belgium's capital had gathered them Her beauty and her chivalry.
Byron.
When he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people
together. Matt. ii. 4.

2. To pick out and bring together from among what is of less value;
to collect, as a harvest; to harvest; to cull; to pick off; to pluck.
A rose just gathered from the stalk. Dryden.
Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles Matt. vii. 16.
Gather us from among the heathen. Ps. cvi. 47.

3. To accumulate by collecting and saving little by little; to amass;
to gain; to heap up.
He that by usury and unjust gain increaseth his substance, he shall
gather it for him that will pity the poor. Prov. xxviii. 8.
To pay the creditor . . . he must gather up money by degrees. Locke.

4. To bring closely together the parts or particles of; to contract;
to compress; to bring together in folds or plaits, as a garment;
also, to draw together, as a piece of cloth by a thread; to pucker;
to plait; as, to gather a ruffle.
Gathering his flowing robe, he seemed to stand In act to speak, and
graceful stretched his hand. Pope.

5. To derive, or deduce, as an inference; to collect, as a
conclusion, from circumstances that suggest, or arguments that prove;
to infer; to conclude.
Let me say no moreGather the sequel by that went before. Shak.

6. To gain; to win. [Obs.]
He gathers ground upon her in the chase. Dryden.

7. (Arch.)

Defn: To bring together, or nearer together, in masonry, as where the
width of a fireplace is rapidly diminished to the width of the flue,
or the like.

8. (Naut.)

Defn: To haul in; to take up; as, to gather the slack of a rope. To
be gathered to one's people, or to one's fathers to die. Gen. xxv. 8.
 -- To gather breath, to recover normal breathing after being out of
breath; to get breath; to rest. Spenser.
 -- To gather one's self together, to collect and dispose one's
powers for a great effort, as a beast crouches preparatory to a leap.
 -- To gather way (Naut.), to begin to move; to move with increasing
speed.

GATHER
Gath"er, v. i.

1. To come together; to collect; to unite; to become assembled; to
congregate.
When small humors gather to a gout. Pope.
Tears from the depth of some divine despair Rise in the heart, and
gather to the eyes. Tennyson.

2. To grow larger by accretion; to increase.
Their snowball did not gather as it went. Bacon.

3. To concentrate; to come to a head, as a sore, and generate pus;
as, a boil has gathered.

4. To collect or bring things together.
Thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have
not strewed. Matt. xxv. 26.

GATHER
Gath"er, n.

1. A plait or fold in cloth, made by drawing a thread through it; a
pucker.

2. (Carriage Making)

Defn: The inclination forward of the axle journals to keep the wheels
from working outward.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The soffit or under surface of the masonry required in
gathering. See Gather, v. t., 7.

GATHERABLE
Gath"er*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being gathered or collected; deducible from
premises. [R.] Godwin.

GATHERER
Gath"er*er, n.

1. One who gathers or collects.

2. (Sewing Machine)

Defn: An attachment for making gathers in the cloth.

GATHERING
Gath"er*ing, n.

1. The act of collecting or bringing together.

2. That which is gathered, collected, or brought together; as:
(a) A crowd; an assembly; a congregation.
(b) A charitable contribution; a collection.
(c) A tumor or boil suppurated or maturated; an abscess.

GATHERING
Gath"er*ing, a.

Defn: Assembling; collecting; used for gathering or concentrating.
Gathering board (Bookbinding), a table or board on which signatures
are gathered or assembled, to form a book. Knight.
 -- Gathering coal, a lighted coal left smothered in embers over
night, about which kindling wood is gathered in the morning.
 -- Gathering hoop, a hoop used by coopers to draw together the ends
of barrel staves, to allow the hoops to be slipped over them.
 -- Gathering peat. (a) A piece of peat used as a gathering coal, to
preserve a fire. (b) In Scotland, a fiery peat which was sent round
by the Borderers as an alarm signal, as the fiery cross was by the
Highlanders.

GATLING GUN
Gat"ling gun` (. Etym: [From the inventor, R.J. Gatling.]

Defn: An American machine gun, consisting of a cluster of barrels
which, being revolved by a crank, are automatically loaded and fired.

Note: The improved Gatling gun can be fired at the rate of 1,200
shots per minute. Farrow.

GATTEN TREE
Gat"ten tree`. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. gatter bush.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to the small trees called guelder-rose (Viburnum
Opulus), cornel (Cornus sanguinea), and spindle tree (Euonymus
Europæus).

GAT-TOOTHED
Gat"-toothed`, a. Etym: [OE. gat goat + tooth. See Goat the animal.]

Defn: Goat-toothed; having a lickerish tooth; lustful; wanton. [Obs.]

GAUCHE
Gauche, n. Etym: [F.]

1. Left handed; hence, awkward; clumsy.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: Winding; twisted; warped; -- applied to curves and surfaces.