

GAUCHERIE
Gauche`rie", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An awkward action; clumsiness; boorishness.

GAUCHO
Gau"cho, n., pl. Gauchos ( Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: On of the native inhabitants of the pampas, of Spanish-American
descent. They live mostly by rearing cattle.

GAUD
Gaud, n. Etym: [OE. gaude jest, trick, gaudi bead of a rosary, fr. L.
gaudium joy, gladness. See Joy.]

1. Trick; jest; sport. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Deceit; fraud; artifice; device. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. An ornament; a piece of worthless finery; a trinket. "An idle
gaud." Shak.

GAUD
Gaud, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. se gaudir to rejoice, fr. L. gaudere. See
Gaud, n.]

Defn: To sport or keep festival. [Obs.] "Gauding with his familiars.
" [Obs.] Sir T. North.

GAUD
Gaud, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gauded; p. pr. & vb. n. Gauding.]

Defn: To bedeck gaudily; to decorate with gauds or showy trinkets or
colors; to paint. [Obs.] "Nicely gauded cheeks." Shak.

GAUD-DAY
Gaud"-day`, n.

Defn: See Gaudy, a feast.

GAUDERY
Gaud"er*y, n.

Defn: Finery; ornaments; ostentatious display. [R.] "Tarnished
gaudery." Dryden.

GAUDFUL
Gaud"ful, a.

Defn: Joyful; showy. [Obs.]

GAUDILY
Gaud"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a gaudy manner. Guthrie.

GAUDINESS
Gaud"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being gaudy. Whitlock.

GAUDISH
Gaud"ish, a.

Defn: Gaudy. "Gaudish ceremonies." Bale.

GAUDLESS
Gaud"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of ornament. [R.]

GAUDY
Gaud"y, a. [Compar. Gaudier; superl. Gauidiest.]

1. Ostentatiously fine; showy; gay, but tawdry or meretricious.
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy, But not expressed in fancy;
rich, not gaudy. Shak.

2. Gay; merry; festal. Tennyson.
Let's have one other gaudy night. Shak.

GAUDY
Gaud"y, n.; pl. Gaudies Etym: [See Gaud, n.]

Defn: One of the large beads in the rosary at which the paternoster
is recited. [Obs.] Gower.

GAUDY
Gaud"y, n.

Defn: A feast or festival; -- called also gaud-day and gaudy day.
[Oxford Univ.] Conybeare.

GAUDYGREEN
Gaud"y*green`, a. or n. Etym: [OE. gaude grene.]

Defn: Light green. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

GAUFFER
Gauf"fer, v. t. Etym: [F. gaufrer to figure cloth, velvet, and other
stuffs, fr. gaufre honeycomb, waffle; of German origin. See Waffle,
Wafer, and cf. Goffer, Gopher an animal.]

Defn: To plait, crimp, or flute; to goffer, as lace. See Goffer.

GAUFFERING
Gauf"fer*ing, n.

Defn: A mode of plaiting or fluting. Gauffering iron, a kind of
fluting iron for fabrics.
 -- Gauffering press (Flower Manuf.), a press for crimping the leaves
and petals into shape.

GAUFFRE
Gauf"fre, n. Etym: [See Gopher.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gopher, esp. the pocket gopher.

GAUGE
Gauge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gauged; p. pr. & vb. n. Gauging] Etym:
[OF. gaugier, F. jauger, cf. OF. gauge gauge, measuring rod, F.
jauge; of uncertain origin; perh. fr. an assumed L. qualificare to
determine the qualities of a thing (see Qualify); but cf. also F.
jalon a measuring stake in surveying, and E. gallon.] [Written also
gage.]

1. To measure or determine with a gauge.

2. To measure or to ascertain the contents or the capacity of, as of
a pipe, barrel, or keg.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: To measure the dimensions of, or to test the accuracy of the
form of, as of a part of a gunlock.
The vanes nicely gauged on each side. Derham.

4. To draw into equidistant gathers by running a thread through it,
as cloth or a garment.

5. To measure the capacity, character, or ability of; to estimate; to
judge of.
You shall not gauge me By what we do to-night. Shak.

GAUGE
Gauge, n. Etym: [Written also gage.]

1. A measure; a standard of measure; an instrument to determine
dimensions, distance, or capacity; a standard.
This plate must be a gauge to file your worm and groove to equal
breadth by. Moxon.
There is not in our hands any fixed gauge of minds. I. Taylor.

2. Measure; dimensions; estimate.
The gauge and dimensions of misery, depression, and contempt. Burke.

3. (Mach. & Manuf.)

Defn: Any instrument for ascertaining or regulating the dimensions or
forms of things; a templet or template; as, a button maker's gauge.

4. (Physics)

Defn: Any instrument or apparatus for measuring the state of a
phenomenon, or for ascertaining its numerical elements at any moment;
-- usually applied to some particular instrument; as, a rain gauge; a
steam gauge.

5. (Naut.)
(a) Relative positions of two or more vessels with reference to the
wind; as, a vessel has the weather gauge of another when on the
windward side of it, and the lee gauge when on the lee side of it.
(b) The depth to which a vessel sinks in the water. Totten.

6. The distance between the rails of a railway.

Note: The standard gauge of railroads in most countries is four feet,
eight and one half inches. Wide, or broad, gauge, in the United
States, is six feet; in England, seven feet, and generally any gauge
exceeding standard gauge. Any gauge less than standard gauge is now
called narrow gauge. It varies from two feet to three feet six
inches.

7. (Plastering)

Defn: The quantity of plaster of Paris used with common plaster to
accelerate its setting.

8. (Building)

Defn: That part of a shingle, slate, or tile, which is exposed to the
weather, when laid; also, one course of such shingles, slates, or
tiles. Gauge of a carriage, car, etc., the distance between the
wheels; -- ordinarily called the track.
 -- Gauge cock, a stop cock used as a try cock for ascertaining the
height of the water level in a steam boiler.
 -- Gauge concussion (Railroads), the jar caused by a car-wheel
flange striking the edge of the rail.
 -- Gauge glass, a glass tube for a water gauge.
 -- Gauge lathe, an automatic lathe for turning a round object having
an irregular profile, as a baluster or chair round, to a templet or
gauge.
 -- Gauge point, the diameter of a cylinder whose altitude is one
inch, and contents equal to that of a unit of a given measure; -- a
term used in gauging casks, etc.
 -- Gauge rod, a graduated rod, for measuring the capacity of
barrels, casks, etc.
 -- Gauge saw, a handsaw, with a gauge to regulate the depth of cut.
Knight.
 -- Gauge stuff, a stiff and compact plaster, used in making
cornices, moldings, etc., by means of a templet.
 -- Gauge wheel, a wheel at the forward end of a plow beam, to
determine the depth of the furrow.
 -- Joiner's gauge, an instrument used to strike a line parallel to
the straight side of a board, etc.
 -- Printer's gauge, an instrument to regulate the length of the
page.
 -- Rain gauge, an instrument for measuring the quantity of rain at
any given place.
 -- Salt gauge, or Brine gauge, an instrument or contrivance for
indicating the degree of saltness of water from its specific gravity,
as in the boilers of ocean steamers.
 -- Sea gauge, an instrument for finding the depth of the sea.
 -- Siphon gauge, a glass siphon tube, partly filled with mercury, --
used to indicate pressure, as of steam, or the degree of rarefaction
produced in the receiver of an air pump or other vacuum; a manometer.
 -- Sliding gauge. (Mach.) (a) A templet or pattern for gauging the
commonly accepted dimensions or shape of certain parts in general
use, as screws, railway-car axles, etc. (b) A gauge used only for
testing other similar gauges, and preserved as a reference, to detect
wear of the working gauges. (c) (Railroads) See Note under Gauge, n.,
5.
 -- Star gauge (Ordnance), an instrument for measuring the diameter
of the bore of a cannon at any point of its length.
 -- Steam gauge, an instrument for measuring the pressure of steam,
as in a boiler.
 -- Tide gauge, an instrument for determining the height of the
tides.
 -- Vacuum gauge, a species of barometer for determining the relative
elasticities of the vapor in the condenser of a steam engine and the
air.
 -- Water gauge. (a) A contrivance for indicating the height of a
water surface, as in a steam boiler; as by a gauge cock or glass. (b)
The height of the water in the boiler.
 -- Wind gauge, an instrument for measuring the force of the wind on
any given surface; an anemometer.
 -- Wire gauge, a gauge for determining the diameter of wire or the
thickness of sheet metal; also, a standard of size. See under Wire.

GAUGEABLE
Gauge"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being gauged.

GAUGED
Gauged, p. a.

Defn: Tested or measured by, or conformed to, a gauge. Gauged brick,
brick molded, rubbed, or cut to an exact size and shape, for arches
or ornamental work.
 -- Gauged mortar. See Gauge stuff, under Gauge, n.

GAUGER
Gau"ger, n.

Defn: One who gauges; an officer whose business it is to ascertain
the contents of casks.

GAUGER-SHIP
Gau"ger-ship, n.

Defn: The office of a gauger.

GAUGING ROD
Gau"ging rod`.

Defn: See Gauge rod, under Gauge, n.

GAUL
Gaul, n. Etym: [F. Gaule, fr. L. Gallia, fr. Gallus a Gaul.]

1. The Anglicized form of Gallia, which in the time of the Romans
included France and Upper Italy (Transalpine and Cisalpine Gaul).

2. A native or inhabitant of Gaul.

GAULISH
Gaul"ish, a.

Defn: Pertaining to ancient France, or Gaul; Gallic. [R.]

GAULT
Gault, n. Etym: [Cf. Norw. gald hard ground, Icel. gald hard snow.]
(Geol.)

Defn: A series of beds of clay and marl in the South of England,
between the upper and lower greensand of the Cretaceous period.

GAULTHERIA
Gaul*the"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of ericaceous shrubs with evergreen foliage, and,
often, edible berries. It includes the American winter-green
(Gaultheria procumbens), and the larger-fruited salal of Northwestern
America (Gaultheria Shallon).

GAUNT
Gaunt, a. Etym: [Cf. Norw. gand a thin pointed stick, a tall and thin
man, and W. gwan weak.]

Defn: Attenuated, as with fasting or suffering; lean; meager; pinched
and grim. "The gaunt mastiff." Pope.
A mysterious but visible pestilence, striding gaunt and fleshless
across our land. Nichols.

GAUNTLET
Gaunt"let, n. (Mil.)

Defn: See Gantlet.

GAUNTLET
Gaunt"let, n. Etym: [F. gantelet, dim. of gant glove, LL. wantus, of
Teutonic origin; cf. D. want, Sw. & Dan. vante, Icel. vöttr, for
vantr.]

1. A glove of such material that it defends the hand from wounds.

Note: The gauntlet of the Middle Ages was sometimes of chain mail,
sometimes of leather partly covered with plates, scales, etc., of
metal sewed to it, and, in the 14th century, became a glove of small
steel plates, carefully articulated and covering the whole hand
except the palm and the inside of the fingers.

2. A long glove, covering the wrist.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A rope on which hammocks or clothes are hung for drying. To
take up the gauntlet, to accept a challenge.
 -- To throw down the gauntlet, to offer or send a challenge. The
gauntlet or glove was thrown down by the knight challenging, and was
taken up by the one who accepted the challenge; -- hence the phrases.

GAUNTLETTED
Gaunt"lett*ed, a.

Defn: Wearing a gauntlet.

GAUNTLY
Gaunt"ly, adv.

Defn: In a gaunt manner; meagerly.

GAUNTREE; GAUNTRY
Gaun"tree, Gaun"try, n. Etym: [F. chantier, LL. cantarium, fr. L.
canterius trellis, sort of frame.]

1. A frame for supporting barrels in a cellar or elsewhere. Sir W.
Scott.

2. (Engin.)

Defn: A scaffolding or frame carrying a crane or other structure.
Knight.

GAUR
Gaur, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An East Indian species of wild cattle (Bibos gauris), of large
size and an untamable disposition. [Spelt also gour.]

GAURE
Gaure, v. i.

Defn: To gaze; to stare. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GAUSS
Gauss (gous), n. [So named after Karl F. Gauss, a German
mathematician.] (Elec.)

Defn: The C.G.S. unit of density of magnetic field, equal to a field
of one line of force per square centimeter, being thus adopted as an
international unit at Paris in 1900; sometimes used as a unit of
intensity of magnetic field. It was previously suggested as a unit of
magnetomotive force.

GAUSSAGE
Gauss"age, n. (Elec.)

Defn: The intensity of a magnetic field expressed in C.G.S. units, or
gausses.

GAUZE
Gauze, n. Etym: [F. gaze; so called because it was first introduced
from Gaza, a city of Palestine.]

Defn: A very thin, slight, transparent stuff, generally of silk;
also, any fabric resembling silk gauze; as, wire gauze; cotton gauze.
Gauze dresser, one employed in stiffening gauze.

GAUZE
Gauze, a.

Defn: Having the qualities of gauze; thin; light; as, gauze merino
underclothing.

GAUZINESS
Gauz"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being gauzy; flimsiness. Ruskin.

GAUZY
Gauz"y, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, gauze; thin and slight as gauze.

GAVAGE
Ga`vage" (ga`vazh"), n. [F., fr. gaver to gorge.]

Defn: Forced feeding (as of poultry or infants) by means of a tube
passed through the mouth down to the stomach.

GAVE
Gave,

Defn: imp. of Give.

GAVEL
Gav"el, n.

Defn: A gable. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

GAVEL
Gav"el, n. Etym: [OF. gavelle, F. javelle, prob. dim. from L. capulus
handle, fr. capere to lay hold of, seize; or cf. W. gafael hold,
grasp. Cf. Heave.]

Defn: A small heap of grain, not tied up into a bundle. Wright.

GAVEL
Gav"el, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

1. The mallet of the presiding officer in a legislative body, public
assembly, court, masonic body, etc.

2. A mason's setting maul. Knight.

GAVEL
Gav"el, n. Etym: [OF. gavel, AS. gafol, prob. fr. gifan to give. See
Give, and cf. Gabel tribute.] (Law)

Defn: Tribute; toll; custom. [Obs.] See Gabel. Cowell.

GAVELET
Gav"el*et, n. Etym: [From Gavel tribute.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: An ancient special kind of cessavit used in Kent and London for
the recovery of rent. [Obs.]

GAVELKIND
Gav"el*kind`, n. Etym: [OE. gavelkynde, gavelkende. See Gavel
tribute, and Kind, n.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A tenure by which land descended from the father to all his
sons in equal portions, and the land of a brother, dying without
issue, descended equally to his brothers. It still prevails in the
county of Kent. Cowell.

GAVELOCHE
Gav"e*loche, n.

Defn: Same as Gavelock.

GAVELOCK
Gav"e*lock, n. Etym: [OE. gaveloc a dart, AS. gafeluc; cf. Icel.
gaflok, MHG. gabil, OF. gavelot, glavelot, F. javelot, Ir. gabhla
spear, W. gaflach fork, dart, E. glave, gaff]

1. A spear or dart. [R. & Obs.]

2. An iron crow or lever. [Scot. & North of Eng.]

GAVERICK
Ga"ver*ick, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European red gurnard (Trigla cuculus). [Prov. Eng.]

GAVIAE
Ga"viæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. gavia a sea mew.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of birds which includes the gulls and terns.

GAVIAL
Ga"vi*al, n. Etym: [Hind. ghariu: cf. F. gavial.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large Asiatic crocodilian (Gavialis Gangeticus); -- called
also nako, and Gangetic crocodile.

Note: The gavial has a long, slender muzzle, teeth of nearly uniform
size, and feet completely webbed. It inhabits the Ganges and other
rivers of India. The name is also applied to several allied fossil
species.

GAVOT
Gav"ot ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [F. gavotte, fr. Gavots, a people
inhabiting a mountainous district in France, called Gap.] (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of difficult dance; a dance tune, the air of which has
two brisk and lively, yet dignified, strains in common time, each
played twice over. [Written also gavotte.]

GAWBY
Gaw"by, n.

Defn: A baby; a dunce. [Prov. Eng.]

GAWK
Gawk, n. Etym: [OE. gok, gowk, cuckoo, fool, Icel. gaukr cuckoo; akin
to OHG. gouh, G. gauch cuckoo, fool, AS. géac cuckoo, Sw. gök, Dan.
giög]

1. A cuckoo. Johnson.

2. A simpleton; a booby; a gawky. Carlyle.

GAWK
Gawk, v. i.

Defn: To act like a gawky.

GAWKY
Gawk"y, a. [Compar. Gawkier; superl. Gawkiest.]

Defn: Foolish and awkward; clumsy; clownish; as, gawky behavior.
 -- n. A fellow who is awkward from being overgrown, or from
stupidity, a gawk.

GAWN
Gawn, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. gallon.]

Defn: A small tub or lading vessel. [Prov. Eng.] Johnson.

GAWNTREE
Gawn"tree, n.

Defn: See Gauntree.

GAY
Gay, a. [Compar. Gayer; superl. Gayest.] Etym: [F. gai, perhaps fr.
OHG. g swift, rapid, G. gäh, jäh, steep, hasty; or cf. OHG. w
beatiful, good. Cf. Jay.]

1. Excited with merriment; manifesting sportiveness or delight;
inspiring delight; livery; merry.
Belinda smiled, and all the world was gay. Pope.
Gay hope is theirs by fancy fed. Gray.

2. Brilliant in colors; splendid; fine; richly dressed.
Why is my neighbor's wife so gay Chaucer.
A bevy of fair women, richly gay In gems and wanton dressMilton.

3. Loose; dissipated; lewd. [Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- Merry; gleeful; blithe; airy; lively; sprightly, sportive; light-
hearted; frolicsome; jolly; jovial; joyous; joyful; glad; showy;
splendid; vivacious.

GAY
Gay, n.

Defn: An ornament [Obs.] L'Estrange.

GAYAL
Gay"al, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Southern Asiatic species of wild cattle (Bibos frontalis).

GAYDIANG
Gay"di*ang, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel of Anam, with two or three masts, lofty triangular
sails, and in construction somewhat resembling a Chinese junk.

GAYETY
Gay"e*ty, n.; pl. Gayeties (. [Written also gaiety.] Etym: [F.
gaieté. See Gay, a.]

1. The state of being gay; merriment; mirth; acts or entertainments
prompted by, or inspiring, merry delight; -- used often in the
plural; as, the gayeties of the season.

2. Finery; show; as, the gayety of dress.

Syn.
 -- Liveliness; mirth; animation; vivacity; glee; blithesomeness;
sprightliness; jollity. See Liveliness.

GAYLEY PROCESS
Gay"ley proc"ess. (Med.)

Defn: The process of removing moisture from the blast of an iron
blast furnace by reducing its temperature so far that it will not
remain suspended as vapor in the blast current, but will be deposited
as snow in the cooling apparatus. The resultant uniformly dehydrated
blast effects great economy in fuel consumption, and promotes
regularity of furnace operation, and certainty of furnace control.

GAYLUSSITE
Gay"lus*site`, n. Etym: [Named after Gay-Lussac, the French chemist.]
(Min.)

Defn: A yellowish white, translucent mineral, consisting of the
carbonates of lime and soda, with water.

GAYLY
Gay"ly, adv.

1. With mirth and frolic; merrily; blithely; gleefully.

2. Finely; splendidly; showily; as, ladies gayly dressed; a flower
gayly blooming. Pope.

GAYNE
Gayne, v. i. Etym: [See Gain.]

Defn: To avail. [Obs.]

GAYNESS
Gay"ness, n.

Defn: Gayety; finery. [R.]

GAYSOME
Gay"some, a.

Defn: Full of gayety. Mir. for Mag.

GAYTRE
Gay"tre, n. Etym: [See Gaitre.]

Defn: The dogwood tree. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GAZE
Gaze, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gazed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gazing.] Etym: [OE.
gasen, akin to dial. Sw. gasa, cf. Goth. us-gaisjan to terrify, us-
geisnan to be terrified. Cf. Aghast, Ghastly, Ghost, Hesitate.]

Defn: To fixx the eyes in a steady and earnest look; to look with
eagerness or curiosity, as in admiration, astonishment, or with
studious attention.
Why stand ye gazing up into heaven Acts i. 11.

Syn.
 -- To gape; stare; look.
 -- To Gaze, Gape, Stare. To gaze is to look with fixed and prolonged
attention, awakened by excited interest or elevated emotion; to gape
is to look fixedly, with open mouth and feelings of ignorant wonder;
to stare is to look with the fixedness of insolence or of idiocy. The
lover of nature gazes with delight on the beauties of the landscape;
the rustic gapes with wonder at the strange sights of a large city;
the idiot stares on those around with a vacant look.

GAZE
Gaze, v. t.

Defn: To view with attention; to gaze on . [R.]
And gazed a while the ample sky. Milton.

GAZE
Gaze, n.

1. A fixed look; a look of eagerness, wonder, or admiration; a
continued look of attention.
With secret gaze Or open admiration him behold. Milton.

2. The object gazed on.
Made of my enemies the scorn and gaze. Milton.
At gaze (a) (Her.) With the face turned directly to the front; --
said of the figures of the stag, hart, buck, or hind, when borne, in
this position, upon an escutcheon. (b) In a position expressing
sudden fear or surprise; -- a term used in stag hunting to describe
the manner of a stag when he first hears the hounds and gazes round
in apprehension of some hidden danger; hence, standing agape; idly or
stupidly gazing.
I that rather held it better men should perish one by one, Than that
earth should stand at gaze like Joshua's moon in Ajalon! Tennyson.

GAZEEBO
Ga*zee"bo, n. Etym: [Humorously formed from gaze.]

Defn: A summerhouse so situated as to command an extensive prospect.
[Colloq.]

GAZEFUL
Gaze"ful, a.

Defn: Gazing. [R.] Spenser.

GAZEHOUND
Gaze"hound`, n.

Defn: A hound that pursues by the sight rather than by the scent. Sir
W. Scott.

GAZEL
Ga"zel, n.

Defn: The black currant; also, the wild plum. [Prov. Eng.]

GAZEL
Ga*zel", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Gazelle.

GAZELLE
Ga*zelle", n. Etym: [F. gazelle, OF. also, gazel; cf. Sp. gacela, Pr.
gazella, It. gazella; all fr. Ar. ghaz a wild goat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several small, swift, elegantly formed species of
antelope, of the genus Gazella, esp. G. dorcas; -- called also
algazel, corinne, korin, and kevel. The gazelles are celebrated for
the luster and soft expression of their eyes. [Written also gazel.]

Note: The common species of Northern Africa (Gazella dorcas); the
Arabian gazelle, or ariel (G. Arabica); the mohr of West Africa (G.
mohr); the Indian (G. Bennetti); the ahu or Persian (G.
subgutturosa); and the springbok or tsebe (G. euchore) of South
Africa, are the best known.

GAZEMENT
Gaze"ment, n.

Defn: View. [Obs.] Spenser.

GAZER
Gaz"er, n.

Defn: One who gazes.

GAZET
Ga*zet, n. Etym: [It.. gazeta, gazzetta, prob. dim. of L. gaza royal
treasure.]

Defn: A Venetian coin, worth about three English farthings, or one
and a half cents. [Obs.]

GAZETTE
Ga*zette", n. Etym: [F. gazette, It. gazzetta, perh. from gazetta a
Venetian coin (see Gazet), said to have been the price of the first
newspaper published at Venice; or perh. dim. of gazza magpie, a name
perh. applied to the first newspaper; cf. OHG. agalstra magpie, G.
elster.]

Defn: A newspaper; a printed sheet published periodically; esp., the
official journal published by the British government, and containing
legal and state notices.

GAZETTE
Ga*zette", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gazetted; p. pr. & vb. n. Gazetting.]

Defn: To announce or publish in a gazette; to announce officially, as
an appointment, or a case of bankruptcy.

GAZETTEER
Gaz`et*teer", n. Etym: [Cf. F. gazetier.]

1. A writer of news, or an officer appointed to publish news by
authority. Johnson.

2. A newspaper; a gazette. [Obs.] Burke.

3. A geographical dictionary; a book giving the names and
descriptions, etc., of many places.

4. An alphabetical descriptive list of anything.

GAZINGSTOCK
Gaz"ing*stock`, n.

Defn: A person or thing gazed at with scorn or abhorrence; an object
of curiosity or contempt. Bp. Hall.

GAZOGENE
Gaz"o*gene, n. Etym: [F. gazogène; gaz gas + -gène, E. -gen.]

Defn: A portable apparatus for making soda water or aërated liquids
on a small scale. Knight.

GAZON
Ga*zon", n. Etym: [F. gazon turf, fr. OHG. waso, G. wasen.] (Fort.)

Defn: One of the pieces of sod used to line or cover parapets and the
faces of earthworks.

GE-
Ge-.

Defn: An Anglo-Saxon prefix. See Y-.

GEAL
Geal, v. i. Etym: [F. geler, fr. L. gelare, fr. gelu. See Gelid.]

Defn: To congeal. [Obs. or Scot.]

GEAN
Gean, n. Etym: [F. guigne the fruit of the gean; cf. OHG. wihsila, G.
weichsel.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of cherry tree common in Europe (Prunus avium); also,
the fruit, which is usually small and dark in color.

GEANTICLINAL
Ge`an*ti*cli"nal, n. Etym: [Gr. anticlinal.] (Geol.)

Defn: An upward bend or flexure of a considerable portion of the
earth's crust, resulting in the formation of a class of mountain
elevations called anticlinoria; -- opposed to geosynclinal.

GEAR
Gear, n. Etym: [OE. gere, ger, AS. gearwe clothing, adornment, armor,
fr. gearo, gearu, ready, yare; akin to OHG. garawi, garwi ornament,
dress. See Yare, and cf. Garb dress.]

1. Clothing; garments; ornaments.
Array thyself in thy most gorgeous gear. Spenser.

2. Goods; property; household stuff. Chaucer.
Homely gear and common ware. Robynson (More's Utopia)

3. Whatever is prepared for use or wear; manufactured stuff or
material.
Clad in a vesture of unknown gear. Spenser.

4. The harness of horses or cattle; trapping.

5. Warlike accouterments. [Scot.] Jamieson.

6. Manner; custom; behavior. [Obs.] Chaucer.

7. Business matters; affairs; concern. [Obs.]
Thus go they both together to their gear. Spenser.

8. (Mech.)
(a) A toothed wheel, or cogwheel; as, a spur gear, or a bevel gear;
also, toothed wheels, collectively.
(b) An apparatus for performing a special function; gearing; as, the
feed gear of a lathe.
(c) Engagement of parts with each other; as, in gear; out of gear.

9. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: See 1st Jeer (b).

10. Anything worthless; stuff; nonsense; rubbish. [Obs. or Prov.
Eng.] Wright.
That servant of his that confessed and uttered this gear was an
honest man. Latimer.
Bever gear. See Bevel gear.
 -- Core gear, a mortise gear, or its skeleton. See Mortise wheel,
under Mortise.
 -- Expansion gear (Steam Engine), the arrangement of parts for
cutting off steam at a certain part of the stroke, so as to leave it
to act upon the piston expansively; the cut-off. See under Expansion.
 -- Feed gear. See Feed motion, under Feed, n.
 -- Gear cutter, a machine or tool for forming the teeth of gear
wheels by cutting.
 -- Gear wheel, any cogwheel.
 -- Running gear. See under Running.
 -- To throw in, or out of, gear (Mach.), to connect or disconnect
(wheelwork or couplings, etc.); to put in, or out of, working
relation.

GEAR
Gear v. t. [imp. & p. p. Geared; p. pr. & vb. n. Gearing.]

1. To dress; to put gear on; to harness.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: To provide with gearing. Double geared, driven through twofold
compound gearing, to increase the force or speed; -- said of a
machine.

GEAR
Gear, v. i. (Mach.)

Defn: To be in, or come into, gear.

GEARING
Gear"ing, n.

1. Harness.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: The parts by which motion imparted to one portion of an engine
or machine is transmitted to another, considered collectively; as,
the valve gearing of locomotive engine; belt gearing; esp., a train
of wheels for transmitting and varying motion in machinery.
Frictional gearing. See under Frictional.
 -- Gearing chain, an endless chain transmitted motion from one
sprocket wheel to another. See Illust. of Chain wheel.
 -- Spur gearing, gearing in which the teeth or cogs are ranged round
either the concave or the convex surface (properly the latter) of a
cylindrical wheel; -- for transmitting motion between parallel
shafts, etc.

GEASON
Gea"son, a. Etym: [OE. gesen, geson, rare, scanty, AS. g barren,
wanting. Cf. Geest.]

Defn: Rare; wonderful. [Obs.] Spenser.

GEAT
Geat, n. Etym: [See Gate a door.] (Founding)

Defn: The channel or spout through which molten metal runs into a
mold in casting. [Written also git, gate.]

GECARCINIAN
Ge`car*cin"i*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A land crab of the genus Gecarcinus, or of allied genera.

GECK
Geck, n. Etym: [D. gek fool, fop; akin to G. geck; cf. Icel. gikkr a
pert, rude person.]

1. Scorn, derision, or contempt. [Prov. Eng.]

2. An object of scorn; a dupe; a gull. [Obs.]
To become the geck and scorn O'the other's villainy. Shak.

GECK
Geck, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OD. ghecken, G. gecken. See Geck, n.]

1. To deride; to scorn; to mock. [Prov. Eng.]

2. To cheat; trick, or gull. [Obs.] Johnson.

GECK
Geck, v. i.

Defn: To jeer; to show contempt. Sir W. Scott.

GECKO
Geck"o, n.; pl. Geckoes. Etym: [Cf. F. & G. gecko; -- so called from
the sound which the animal utters.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any lizard of the family Geckonidæ. The geckoes are small,
carnivorous, mostly nocturnal animals with large eyes and vertical,
elliptical pupils. Their toes are generally expanded, and furnished
with adhesive disks, by which they can run over walls and ceilings.
They are numerous in warm countries, and a few species are found in
Europe and the United States. See Wall gecko, Fanfoot.

GECKOTIAN
Geck*o"tian, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gecko.

GED; GEDD
Ged, Gedd (, n.

Defn: The European pike.

GEE
Gee, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Geed; p. pr. & vb. n. Geeing.]

1. To agree; to harmonize. [Colloq. or Prov. Eng.] Forby.

2. Etym: [Cf. G. jü, interj., used in calling to a horse, It. giò, F.
dia, used to turn a horse to the left.]

Defn: To turn to the off side, or from the driver (i.e., in the
United States, to the right side); -- said of cattle, or a team; used
most frequently in the imperative, often with off, by drivers of
oxen, in directing their teams, and opposed to haw, or hoi. [Written
also jee.]

Note: In England, the teamster walks on the right-hand side of the
cattle; in the United States, on the left-hand side. In all cases,
however, gee means to turn from the driver, and haw to turn toward
him. Gee ho, or Gee whoa. Same as Gee.

GEE
Gee, v. t. Etym: [See Gee to turn.]

Defn: To cause (a team) to turn to the off side, or from the driver.
[Written also jee.]

GEER; GEERING
Geer, Geer"ing. [Obs.]

Defn: See Gear, Gearing.

GEESE
Geese, n.,

Defn: pl. of Goose.

GEEST
Geest, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. geest, geestland, sandy, dry and, OFries.
gest, gast, gestlond, gastlond, fr. Fries. gast barren. Cf. Geason.]

Defn: Alluvial matter on the surface of land, not of recent origin.
R. Jameson.

GEET
Geet, n. Etym: [See Jet.]

Defn: Jet. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GEEZ
Geez, n.

Defn: The original native name for the ancient Ethiopic language or
people. See Ethiopic.

GEEZER
Gee"zer, n. [Dial. corrupt. of Guiser a mummer.]

Defn: A queer old fellow; an old chap; an old woman. [Contemptuous,
Slang or Dial.]

GEHENNA
Ge*hen"na, n. Etym: [L. Gehenna, Gr. G.] (Jewish Hist.)

Defn: The valley of Hinnom, near Jerusalem, where some of the
Israelites sacrificed their children to Moloch, which, on this
account, was afterward regarded as a place of abomination, and made a
receptacle for all the refuse of the city, perpetual fires being kept
up in order to prevent pestilential effluvia. In the New Testament
the name is transferred, by an easy metaphor, to Hell.
The pleasant valley of Hinnom. Tophet thence And black Gehenna
called, the type of Hell. Milton.

GEIC
Ge"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, earthy or vegetable mold. Geic
acid. (Chem.) See Humin.

GEIN
Ge"in, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: See Humin.

GEISHA
Gei"sha (ga"sha), n.; pl. Geisha (-sha), Geishas (-shaz). [Jap.]

Defn: A Japanese singing and dancing girl.

GEISSLER TUBE
Geis"sler tube`. (Elec.)

Defn: A glass tube provided with platinum electrodes, and containing
some gas under very low tension, which becomes luminous when an
electrical discharge is passed through it; -- so called from the name
of a noted maker in germany. It is called also Plücker tube, from the
German physicist who devised it.

GEITONOGAMY
Gei"to*nog"a*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Fertilization of flowers by pollen from other flowers on the
same plant.

GELABLE
Gel"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. gelare to congeal: cf. F. gelable. See Geal.]

Defn: Capable of being congealed; capable of being converted into
jelly.

GELADA
Gel"a*da, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A baboon (Gelada Ruppelli) of Abyssinia, remarkable for the
length of the hair on the neck and shoulders of the adult male.

GELASTIC
Ge*las"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to laughter; used in laughing. "Gelastic muscles."
Sir T. Browne.

GELATIFICATION
Ge*lat"i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Gelatin + L. -ficare. (in comp.) to
make. See -fy.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The formation of gelatin.

GELATIGENOUS
Gel`a*tig"e*nous, n. Etym: [Gelatin + -genous.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Producing, or yielding, gelatin; gelatiniferous; as, the
gelatigeneous tissues.

GELATIN; GELATINE
Gel"a*tin

Defn: , Gel"a*tine (, n. Etym: [F. gélatine, fr. L. gelare to
congeal. See Geal.] (Chem.) Animal jelly; glutinous material obtained
from animal tissues by prolonged boiling. Specifically (Physiol.
Chem.), a nitrogeneous colloid, not existing as such in the animal
body, but formed by the hydrating action of boiling water on the
collagen of various kinds of connective tissue (as tendons, bones,
ligaments, etc.). Its distinguishing character is that of dissolving
in hot water, and forming a jelly on cooling. It is an important
ingredient of calf's-foot jelly, isinglass, glue, etc. It is used as
food, but its nutritious qualities are of a low order.

Note: Both spellings, gelatin and gelatine, are in good use, but the
tendency of writers on physiological chemistry favors the form in -
in, as in the United States Dispensatory, the United States
Pharmacopoeia, Fownes' Watts' Chemistry, Brande & Cox's Dictionary.
Blasting gelatin, an explosive, containing about ninety-five parts of
nitroglycerin and five of collodion.
 -- Gelatin process, a name applied to a number of processes in the
arts, involving the use of gelatin. Especially: (a) (Photog.) A dry-
plate process in which gelatin is used as a substitute for collodion
as the sensitized material. This is the dry-plate process in general
use, and plates of extreme sensitiveness are produced by it. (b)
(Print.) A method of producing photographic copies of drawings,
engravings, printed pages, etc., and also of photographic pictures,
which can be printed from in a press with ink, or (in some
applications of the process) which can be used as the molds of
stereotype or electrotype plates. (c) (Print. or Copying) A method of
producing facsimile copies of an original, written or drawn in
aniline ink upon paper, thence transferred to a cake of gelatin
softened with glycerin, from which impressions are taken upon
ordinary paper.
 -- Vegetable gelatin. See Gliadin.

GELATINATE
Ge*lat"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gelatinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gelatinating.]

Defn: To convert into gelatin, or into a substance resembling jelly.

GELATINATE
Ge*lat"i*nate, v. i.

Defn: To be converted into gelatin, or into a substance like jelly.
Lapis lazuli, if calcined, does not effervesce, but gelatinates with
the mineral acids. Kirwan.

GELATINATION
Ge*lat`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of process of converting into gelatin, or a substance
like jelly.

GELATINE
Gel"a*tine, n.

Defn: Same as Gelatin.

GELATINIFEROUS
Gel`a*tin*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gelatin + -ferous.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Yielding gelatin on boiling with water; capable of
gelatination.

GELATINIFORM
Gel`a*tin"i*form, a.

Defn: Having the form of gelatin.

GELATINIZATION
Ge*lat`i*ni*za"tion, n.

Defn: Same as Gelatination.

GELATINIZE
Ge*lat"i*nize, v. t.

1. To convert into gelatin or jelly. Same as Gelatinate, v. t.

2. (Photog.)

Defn: To coat, or otherwise treat, with gelatin.

GELATINIZE
Ge*lat"i*nize, v. i.

Defn: Same as Gelatinate, v. i.

GELATINOUS
Ge*lat"i*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. gélatineux.]

Defn: Of the nature and consistence of gelatin or the jelly;
resembling jelly; viscous.

GELATION
Ge*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. gelatio a freezing, fr. gelare to freeze.]
(Astron.)

Defn: The process of becoming solid by cooling; a cooling and
solidifying.

GELD
Geld, n. Etym: [AS. gild, gield, geld, tribute, payment, fr. gieldan
to pay, render. See Yield.]

Defn: Money; tribute; compensation; ransom.[Obs.]

Note: This word occurs in old law books in composition, as in
danegeld, or danegelt, a tax imposed by the Danes; weregeld,
compensation for the life of a man, etc.

GELD
Geld, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gelded or Gelt (p. pr. & vb. n. Gelding.]
Etym: [Icel. gelda to castrate; akin to Dan. gilde, Sw. gälla, and
cf. AS. gilte a young sow, OHG. galt dry, not giving milk, G. gelt,
Goth. gilpa siclke.]

1. To castrate; to emasculate.

2. To deprive of anything essential.
Bereft and gelded of his patrimony. Shak.

3. To deprive of anything exceptionable; as, to geld a book, or a
story; to expurgate. [Obs.] Dryden.

GELDABLE
Geld"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being gelded.

GELDABLE
Geld"a*ble, a. Etym: [From Geld money.]

Defn: Liable to taxation. [Obs.] Burrill.

GELDER
Geld"er, n.

Defn: One who gelds or castrates.

GELDER-ROSE
Gel"der-rose, n.

Defn: Same as Guelder-rose.

GELDING
Geld"ing, n. Etym: [Icel. gelding a gelding, akin to geldingr wether,
eunuch, Sw. gälling gelding, Dan. gilding eunuch. See Geld, v. t.]

Defn: A castrated animal; -- usually applied to a horse, but formerly
used also of the human male.
They went down both into the water, Philip and the gelding, and
Philip baptized him. Wyclif (Acts viii. 38).

GELDING
Geld"ing, p. pr. a. & vb. n..

Defn: from Geld, v. t.

GELID
Gel"id, a. Etym: [L. gelidus, fr. gelun frost, cold. See Cold, and
cf. Congeal, Gelatin, Jelly.]

Defn: Cold; very cold; frozen. "Gelid founts." Thompson.

GELIDITY
Ge*lid"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being gelid.

GELIDLY
Gel"id*ly, adv.

Defn: In a gelid manner; coldly.

GELIDNESS
Gel"id*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being gelid; gelidity.

GELLY
Gel"ly, n.

Defn: Jelly. [Obs.] Spenser.

GELOSCOPY
Ge*los"copy, n. Etym: [Gr. -scopy.]

Defn: Divination by means of laughter.

GELOSE
Ge*lose", n. Etym: [See Gelatin.] (Chem.)

Defn: An amorphous, gummy carbohydrate, found in Gelidium, agar-agar,
and other seaweeds.

GELSEMIC
Gel*se"mic, a.

Defn: Gelseminic.

GELSEMINE
Gel"se*mine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid obtained from the yellow jasmine (Gelsemium
sempervirens), as a bitter white semicrystalline substance; -- called
also gelsemia.

GELSEMINIC
Gel`se*min"ic, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the yellow jasmine (Gelsemium
sempervirens); as, gelseminic acid, a white crystalline substance
resembling esculin.

GELSEMIUM
Gel*se"mium, n. Etym: [NL., fr. It. gelsomino jasmine.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of climbing plants. The yellow (false) jasmine
(Gelsemium sempervirens) is a native of the Southern United States.
It has showy and deliciously fragrant flowers.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The root of the yellow jasmine, used in malarial fevers, etc.

GELT
Gelt, n. Etym: [See 1st Geld.]

Defn: Trubute, tax. [Obs.]
All these the king granted unto them . . . free from all gelts and
payments, in a most full and ample manner. Fuller.

GELT
Gelt, n. Etym: [See Gelt, v. t.]

Defn: A gelding. [Obs.] Mortimer.

GELT
Gelt, n.

Defn: Gilding; tinsel. [Obs.] Spenser.

GEM
Gem, n. Etym: [OE. gemme precious stone, F. gemme, fr. L. gemma a
precious stone, bud.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A bud.
From the joints of thy prolific stem A swelling knot is raised called
a gem. Denham.

2. A precious stone of any kind, as the ruby, emerald, topaz,
sapphire, beryl, spinel, etc., especially when cut and polished for
ornament; a jewel. Milton.

3. Anything of small size, or expressed within brief limits, which is
regarded as a gem on account of its beauty or value, as a small
picture, a verse of poetry, a witty or wise saying. Artificial gem,
an imitation of a gem, made of glass colored with metallic oxide. Cf.
Paste, and Strass.

GEM
Gem v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gemmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gemming]

1. To put forth in the form of buds. "Gemmed their blossoms." [R.]
Milton.

2. To adorn with gems or precious stones.

3. To embellish or adorn, as with gems; as, a foliage gemmed with
dewdrops.
England is . . . gemmed with castles and palaces. W. Irving.

GEMARA
Ge*ma"ra, n. Etym: [Heb.] (Jewish Law)

Defn: The second part of the Talmud, or the commentary on the Mishna
(which forms the first part or text).

GEMARIC
Ge*mar"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the Gemara.

GEMARIST
Ge*ma"rist, n.

Defn: One versed in the Gemara, or adhering to its teachings.

GEMEL
Gem"el, a. Etym: [OF. gemel twin, F. jumeau, L. gemellus twin,
doubled, dim. of geminus. See Gemini, and cf. Gimmal.] (Her.)

Defn: Coupled; paired. Bars gemel (Her.), two barrulets placed near
and parallel to each other.

GEMEL
Gem"el, n.

1. One of the twins. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. (Heb.)

Defn: One of the barrulets placed parallel and closed to each other.
Cf. Bars gemel, under Gemel, a.
Two gemels silver between two griffins passant. Strype.
Gemel hinge (Locksmithing), a hinge consisting of an eye or loop and
a hook.
 -- Gemel ring, a ring with two or more links; a gimbal. See Gimbal.
 -- Gemel window, a window with two bays.

GEMELLIPA-ROUS
Gem`el*lip"a-rous, a. Etym: [L. gemellipara, fem., gemellus twin +
parere to bear, produce.]

Defn: Producing twins. [R.] Bailey.

GEMINAL
Gem"i*nal, a. Etym: [L. geminus twin.]

Defn: A pair. [Obs.] Drayton.

GEMINATE
Gem"i*nate, a. Etym: [L. geminatus, p.p. of genimare to double. See
Gemini.] (Bot.)

Defn: In pairs or twains; two together; binate; twin; as, geminate
flowers. Gray.

GEMINATE
Gem"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To double. [R.] B. Jonson.

GEMINATION
Gem`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. geminatio.]

Defn: A doubling; duplication; repetition. [R.] Boyle.

GEMINI
Gem"i*ni, n. pl. Etym: [L., twins, pl. of geminus; cf. Skr. j related
as brother or sister.] (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation of the zodiac, containing the two bright stars
Castor and Pollux; also, the third sign of the zodiac, which the sun
enters about May 20th.

GEMINIFLOROUS
Gem`i*ni*flo"rous, a. Etym: [L. geminus twin + flos, floris, flower.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having the flowers arranged in pairs.

GEMINOUS
Gem"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. geminus.]

Defn: Double; in pairs. Sir T. Browne.

GEMINY
Gemi*ny, n. Etym: [See Gemini.]

Defn: Twins; a pair; a couple. [Obs.] Shak.

GEMITORES
Gem`i*to"res, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. gemere, gemitum, to sign,
moan.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of birds including the true pigeons.

GEMMA
Gem"ma, n.; pl. Gemmæ. Etym: [L., a bud.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A leaf bud, as distinguished from a flower bud.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A bud spore; one of the small spores or buds in the
reproduction of certain Protozoa, which separate one at a time from
the parent cell.

GEMMACEOUS
Gem*ma"ceous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to gems or to gemmæ; of the nature of, or
resembling, gems or gemmæ.

GEMMARY
Gem"ma*ry, a. Etym: [L. gemmarius. See Gem.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to gems.

GEMMARY
Gem"ma*ry, n.

Defn: A receptacle for jewels or gems; a jewel house; jewels or gems,
collectively.

GEMMATE
Gem"mate, a. Etym: [L. gemmatus, p. p. of gemmare to put forth buds,
fr. gemma bud.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having buds; reproducing by buds.

GEMMATED
Gem"ma*ted, a.

Defn: Having buds; adorned with gems or jewels.

GEMMATION
Gem*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. gemmation.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: The formation of a new individual, either animal or vegetable,
by a process of budding; an asexual method of reproduction;
gemmulation; gemmiparity. See Budding.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The arrangement of buds on the stalk; also, of leaves in the
bud.

GEMMEOUS
Gem"me*ous, a. Etym: [L. gemmeus. See Gem.]

Defn: Pertaining to gems; of the nature of gems; resembling gems.
Pennant.

GEMMIFEROUS
Gem*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. gemma bud + -ferous: cf. F. gemmifère.]

Defn: Producing gems or buds; (Biol.)

Defn: multiplying by buds.

GEMMIFICATION
Gem`mi*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. gemma bud + -ficare (in comp.) to
make. See -fy.] (Biol.)

Defn: The production of a bud or gem.

GEMMIFLORATE
Gem`mi*flo"rate, a. Etym: [L. gemma bud + flos, floris, flower.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having flowers like buds.

GEMMINESS
Gem"mi*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being gemmy; spruceness; smartness.

GEMMIPARA; GEMMIPARES
Gem*mip"a*ra Gem*mip"a*res n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. gemma bud +
parere to produce.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Animals which increase by budding, as hydroids.

GEMMIPARITY
Gem`mi*par"i*ty, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Reproduction by budding; gemmation. See Budding.

GEMMIPAROUS
Gem*mip"a*rous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. gemmipare.] (Biol.)

Defn: Producing buds; reproducing by buds. See Gemmation, 1.

GEMMOSITY
Gem*mos"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. gemmosus set with jewels. See Gem.]

Defn: The quality or characteristics of a gem or jewel. [Obs.]
Bailey.

GEMMULATION
Gem`mu*la"tion, n. Etym: [From L. gemmula, dim. of gemma bud.]
(Biol.)

Defn: See Gemmation.

GEMMULE
Gem"mule, n. Etym: [L. gemmula, dim. of gemma: cf. F. gemmule. See
Gem.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A little leaf bud, as the plumule between the cotyledons.
(b) One of the buds of mosses.
(c) One of the reproductive spores of algæ.
(d) An ovule.

2. (Biol.)
(a) A bud produced in generation by gemmation.
(b) One of the imaginary granules or atoms which, according to
Darwin's hypothesis of pangenesis, are continually being thrown off
from every cell or unit, and circulate freely throughout the system,
and when supplied with proper nutriment multiply by self-division and
ultimately develop into cells like those from which they were
derived. They are supposed to be transmitted from the parent to the
offspring, but are often transmitted in a dormant state during many
generations and are then developed. See Pangenesis.

GEMMULIFEROUS
Gem`mu*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gemmule + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing or producing gemmules or buds.

GEMMY
Gem"my, a. Etym: [From Gem, n.]

1. Full of gems; bright; glittering like a gem.
The gemmy bridle glittered free. Tennyson.

2. Spruce; smart. [Colloq. Eng.]

GEMOTE
Ge*mote", n. Etym: [As. gem an assembly. See Meet, v. t.] (AS. Hist.)

Defn: A meeting; -- used in combination, as, Witenagemote, an
assembly of the wise men.

GEMS
Gems, n. Etym: [G.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The chamois.

GEMSBOK
Gems"bok, n. Etym: [D.; akin to G. gemsbock the male or buck of the
chamois; gemse chamois, goat of the Alps + bock buck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South African antelope (Oryx Capensis), having long, sharp,
nearly straight horns.

GEMS-HORN
Gems"-horn`, n. Etym: [G., prop., chamois horn.] (Mus.)

Defn: An organ stop with conical tin pipes.

GEMUL
Ge*mul", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small South American deer (Furcifer Chilensis), with simple
forked horns. [Written also guemul.]

-GEN
-gen. Etym: [(1) From Gr. -gen-, from the same root as ge`nos race,
stock (see Genus). (2) From Gr. suffix -genh`s born. Cf. F. -gène.]

1. A suffix used in scientific words in the sense of producing,
generating: as, amphigen, amidogen, halogen.

2. A suffix meaning produced, generated; as, exogen.

GENA
Ge"na, Etym: [L., the cheek.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The cheek; the feathered side of the under mandible of a bird.
(b) The part of the head to which the jaws of an insect are attached.

GENAPPE
Ge*nappe", n. Etym: [From Genappe, in Belgium.]

Defn: A worsted yarn or cord of peculiar smoothness, used in the
manufacture of braid, fringe, etc. Simmonds.

GENDARME
Gen`darme", n.; pl. Gendarmes, or Gens d'armes. Etym: [F.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: One of a body of heavy cavalry. [Obs.] [France]

2. An armed policeman in France. Thackeray.

GENDARMERY
Gen*darm"er*y, n. Etym: [F. gendarmerie.]

Defn: The body of gendarmes.

GENDER
Gen"der, n. Etym: [OF. genre, gendre (with excrescent d.), F.genre,
fr. L. genus, generis, birth, descent, race, kind, gender, fr. the
root of genere, gignere, to beget, in pass., to be born, akin to E.
kin. See Kin, and cf. Generate, Genre, Gentle, Genus.]

1. Kind; sort. [Obs.] "One gender of herbs." Shak.

2. Sex, male or female. [Obs. or Colloq.]

3. (Gram.)

Defn: A classification of nouns, primarily according to sex; and
secondarily according to some fancied or imputed quality associated
with sex.
Gender is a grammatical distinction and applies to words only. Sex is
natural distinction and applies to living objects. R. Morris.

Note: Adjectives and pronouns are said to vary in gender when the
form is varied according to the gender of the words to which they
refer.

GENDER
Gen"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gendered; p. pr. & vb. n. Gendering.]
Etym: [OF. gendrer, fr. L. generare. See Gender, n.]

Defn: To beget; to engender.

GENDER
Gen"der, v. i.

Defn: To copulate; to breed. [R.] Shak.

GENDERLESS
Gen"der*less, a.

Defn: Having no gender.

GENEAGENESIS
Gen`e*a*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: Alternate generation. See under Generation.

GENEALOGIC
Gen`e*a*log"ic, a.

Defn: Genealogical.

GENEALOGICAL
Gen`e*a*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. généalogique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to genealogy; as, a genealogical table;
genealogical order.
 -- Gen`e*a*log"ic*al*ly, adv. Genealogical tree, a family lineage or
genealogy drawn out under the form of a tree and its branches.

GENEALOGIST
Gen`e*al"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. généalogiste.]

Defn: One who traces genealogies or the descent of persons or
families.

GENEALOGIZE
Gen`e*al"o*gize, v. i.

Defn: To investigate, or relate the history of, descents.

GENEALOGY
Gen`e*al"o*gy, n.; pl. Genealogies. Etym: [OE. genealogi, genelogie,
OF. genelogie, F. généalogie, L. genealogia, fr. Gr. genus) +

1. An account or history of the descent of a person or family from an
ancestor; enumeration of ancestors and their children in the natural
order of succession; a pedigree.

2. Regular descent of a person or family from a progenitor; pedigree;
lineage.

GENEARCH
Gen"e*arch, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The chief of a family or tribe.

GENERA
Gen"e*ra, n. pl.

Defn: See Genus.

GENERABILITY
Gen`er*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being generated. Johnstone.

GENERABLE
Gen"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. generabilis.]

Defn: Capable of being generated or produced. Bentley.

GENERAL
Gen"er*al, a. Etym: [F. général, fr. L. generalis. See Genus.]

1. Relating to a genus or kind; pertaining to a whole class or order;
as, a general law of animal or vegetable economy.

2. Comprehending many species or individuals; not special or
particular; including all particulars; as, a general inference or
conclusion.

3. Not restrained or limited to a precise import; not specific;
vague; indefinite; lax in signification; as, a loose and general
expression.

4. Common to many, or the greatest number; widely spread; prevalent;
extensive, though not universal; as, a general opinion; a general
custom.
This general applause and cheerful sShak.

5. Having a relation to all; common to the whole; as, Adam, our
general sire. Milton.

6. As a whole; in gross; for the most part.
His general behavior vain, ridiculous. Shak.

7. Usual; common, on most occasions; as, his general habit or method.

Note: The word general, annexed to a name of office, usually denotes
chief or superior; as, attorney-general; adjutant general; commissary
general; quartermaster general; vicar-general, etc. General agent
(Law), an agent whom a principal employs to transact all his business
of a particular kind, or to act in his affairs generally.
 -- General assembly. See the Note under Assembly.
 -- General average, General Court. See under Average, Court.
 -- General court-martial (Mil.), the highest military and naval
judicial tribunal.
 -- General dealer (Com.), a shopkeeper who deals in all articles in
common use.
 -- General demurrer (Law), a demurrer which objects to a pleading in
general terms, as insufficient, without specifying the defects.
Abbott.
 -- General epistle, a canonical epistle.
 -- General guides (Mil.), two sergeants (called the right, and the
left, general guide) posted opposite the right and left flanks of an
infantry battalion, to preserve accuracy in marching. Farrow.
 -- General hospitals (Mil.), hospitals established to receive sick
and wounded sent from the field hospitals. Farrow. General issue
(Law), an issue made by a general plea, which traverses the whole
declaration or indictment at once, without offering any special
matter to evade it. Bouvier. Burrill.
 -- General lien (Law), a right to detain a chattel, etc., until
payment is made of any balance due on a general account.
 -- General officer (Mil.), any officer having a rank above that of
colonel.
 -- General orders (Mil.), orders from headquarters published to the
whole command.
 -- General practitioner, in the United States, one who practices
medicine in all its branches without confining himself to any
specialty; in England, one who practices both as physician and as
surgeon.
 -- General ship, a ship not chartered or let to particular parties.
 -- General term (Logic), a term which is the sign of a general
conception or notion.
 -- General verdict (Law), the ordinary comprehensive verdict in
civil actions, "for the plaintiff" or "for the defendant". Burrill.
 -- General warrant (Law), a warrant, now illegal, to apprehend
suspected persons, without naming individuals.

Syn. General, Common, Universal. Common denotes primarily that in
which many share; and hence, that which is often met with. General is
stronger, denoting that which pertains to a majority of the
individuals which compose a genus, or whole. Universal, that which
pertains to all without exception. To be able to read and write is so
common an attainment in the United States, that we may pronounce it
general, though by no means universal.

Syn: Gen"er*al, n. Etym: [F. général. See General., a.]

1. The whole; the total; that which comprehends or relates to all, or
the chief part; -- opposed to particular.
In particulars our knowledge begins, and so spreads itself by degrees
to generals. Locke.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: One of the chief military officers of a government or country;
the commander of an army, of a body of men not less than a brigade.
In European armies, the highest military rank next below field
marshal.

Note: In the United States the office of General of the Army has been
created by temporary laws, and has been held only by Generals U. S.
Grant, W. T. Sherman, and P. H. Sheridan. Popularly, the title
General is given to various general officers, as General, Lieutenant
general, Major general, Brigadier general, Commissary general, etc.
See Brigadier general, Lieutenant general, Major general, in the
Vocabulary.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: The roll of the drum which calls the troops together; as, to
beat the general.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: The chief of an order of monks, or of all the houses or
congregations under the same rule.

5. The public; the people; the vulgar. [Obs.] Shak. In general, in
the main; for the most part.

GENERALIA
Gen`e*ra"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl., fr. L. generalis.]

Defn: Generalities; general terms. J. S. Mill.

GENERALISSIMO
Gen`er*al*is"si*mo, n. Etym: [It., superl. of generale general. See
General, a.]

Defn: The chief commander of an army; especially, the commander in
chief of an army consisting of two or more grand divisions under
separate commanders; -- a title used in most foreign countries.

GENERALITY
Gen`er*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Generalities. Etym: [L. generalitas: cf. F.
généralité. Cf. Generalty.]

1. The state of being general; the quality of including species or
particulars. Hooker.

2. That which is general; that which lacks specificalness,
practicalness, or application; a general or vague statement or
phrase.
Let us descend from generalities to particulars. Landor.
The glittering and sounding generalities of natural right which make
up the Declaration of Independence. R. Choate.

3. The main body; the bulk; the greatest part; as, the generality of
a nation, or of mankind.

GENERALIZABLE
Gen"er*al*i`za*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being generalized, or reduced to a general form of
statement, or brought under a general rule.
Extreme cases are . . . not generalizable. Coleridge

GENERALIZATION
Gen`er*al*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. généralisation.]

1. The act or process of generalizing; the act of bringing
individuals or particulars under a genus or class; deduction of a
general principle from particulars.
Generalization is only the apprehension of the one in the many. Sir
W. Hamilton.

2. A general inference.

GENERALIZE
Gen"er*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Generalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Generalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. généraliser.]

1. To bring under a genus or under genera; to view in relation to a
genus or to genera.
Copernicus generalized the celestial motions by merely referring them
to the moon's motion. Newton generalized them still more by referring
this last to the motion of a stone through the air. W. Nicholson.

2. To apply to other genera or classes; to use with a more extensive
application; to extend so as to include all special cases; to make
universal in application, as a formula or rule.
When a fact is generalized, our discontent is quited, and we consider
the generality itself as tantamount to an explanation. Sir W.
Hamilton.

3. To derive or deduce (a general conception, or a general principle)
from particulars.
A mere conclusion generalized from a great multitude of facts.
Coleridge.

GENERALIZE
Gen"er*al*ize, v. i.

Defn: To form into a genus; to view objects in their relations to a
genus or class; to take general or comprehensive views.

GENERALIZED
Gen"er*al*ized, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Comprising structural characters which are separated in more
specialized forms; synthetic; as, a generalized type.

GENERALIZER
Gen"er*al*i`zer (, n.

Defn: One who takes general or comprehensive views. Tyndall.

GENERALLY
Gen"er*al*ly, adv.

1. In general; commonly; extensively, though not universally; most
frequently.

2. In a general way, or in general relation; in the main; upon the
whole; comprehensively.
Generally speaking, they live very quietly. Addison.

3. Collectively; as a whole; without omissions. [Obs.]
I counsel that all Israel be generally gathered unto thee. 2 Sam.
xvii. ll.

GENERALNESS
Gen"er*al*ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being general; frequency;
commonness. Sir P. Sidney.

GENERALSHIP
Gen"er*al*ship, n.

1. The office of a general; the exercise of the functions of a
general; -- sometimes, with the possessive pronoun, the personality
of a general.
Your generalship puts me in mind of Prince Eugene. Goldsmith.

2. Military skill in a general officer or commander.

3. Fig.: Leadership; management.
An artful stroke of generalship in Trim to raise a dust. Sterne.

GENERALTY
Gen"er*al*ty, n.

Defn: Generality. [R.] Sir M. Hale.

GENERANT
Gen"er*ant, a. Etym: [L. generans, p. pr. of generare.]

Defn: Generative; producing; esp. (Geom.),

Defn: acting as a generant.

GENERANT
Gen"er*ant, n.

1. That which generates. Glanvill.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: A generatrix.

GENERATE
Gen"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Generated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Generating.] Etym: [L. generatus, p. p. of generare to generate, fr.
genus. See Genus, Gender.]

1. To beget; to procreate; to propagate; to produce (a being similar
to the parent); to engender; as, every animal generates its own
species.

2. To cause to be; to bring into life. Milton.

3. To originate, especially by a vital or chemical process; to
produce; to cause.
Whatever generates a quantity of good chyle must likewise generate
milk. Arbuthnot.

4. (Math.)

Defn: To trace out, as a line, figure, or solid, by the motion of a
point or a magnitude of inferior order.

GENERATION
Gen`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [OE. generacioun, F. génération, fr.L.
generatio.]

1. The act of generating or begetting; procreation, as of animals.

2. Origination by some process, mathematical, chemical, or vital;
production; formation; as, the generation of sounds, of gases, of
curves, etc.

3. That which is generated or brought forth; progeny; offspiring.

4. A single step or stage in the succession of natural descent; a
rank or remove in genealogy. Hence: The body of those who are of the
same genealogical rank or remove from an ancestor; the mass of beings
living at one period; also, the average lifetime of man, or the
ordinary period of time at which one rank follows another, or father
is succeeded by child, usually assumed to be one third of a century;
an age.
This is the book of the generations of Adam. Gen. v. 1.
Ye shall remain there [in Babylon] many years, and for a long season,
namely, seven generations. Baruch vi. 3.
All generations and ages of the Christian church. Hooker.

5. Race; kind; family; breed; stock.
Thy mother's of my generation; what's she, if I be a dog Shak.

6. (Geom.)

Defn: The formation or production of any geometrical magnitude, as a
line, a surface, a solid, by the motion, in accordance with a
mathematical law, of a point or a magnitude; as, the generation of a
line or curve by the motion of a point, of a surface by a line, a
sphere by a semicircle, etc.

7. (Biol.)

Defn: The aggregate of the functions and phenomene which attend
reproduction.

Note: There are four modes of generation in the animal kingdom:
scissiparity or by fissiparous generation, gemmiparity or by budding,
germiparity or by germs, and oviparity or by ova. Alternate
generation (Biol.), alternation of sexual with asexual generation, in
which the products of one process differ from those of the other, --
a form of reproduction common both to animal and vegetable organisms.
In the simplest form, the organism arising from sexual generation
produces offspiring unlike itself, agamogenetically. These, however,
in time acquire reproductive organs, and from their impregnated germs
the original parent form is reproduced. In more complicated cases,
the first series of organisms produced agamogenetically may give rise
to others by a like process, and these in turn to still other
generations. Ultimately, however, a generation is formed which
develops sexual organs, and the original form is reproduced.
 -- Spontaneous generation (Biol.), the fancied production of living
organisms without previously existing parents from inorganic matter,
or from decomposing organic matter, a notion which at one time had
many supporters; abiogenesis.

GENERATIVE
Gen"er*a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. génératif.]

Defn: Having the power of generating, propagating, originating, or
producing. "That generative particle." Bentley.

GENERATOR
Gen"er*a`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who, or that which, generates, begets, causes, or produces.

2. An apparatus in which vapor or gas is formed from a liquid or
solid by means of heat or chemical process, as a steam boiler, gas
retort, or vessel for generating carbonic acid gas, etc.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: The principal sound or sounds by which others are produced; the
fundamental note or root of the common chord; -- called also
generating tone.

GENERATRIX
Gen`er*a"trix, n.; pl. L. Generatrices, E. Generatrixes. Etym: [L.]
(Geom.)

Defn: That which generates; the point, or the mathematical magnitude,
which, by its motion, generates another magnitude, as a line,
surface, or solid; -- called also describent.

GENERIC; GENERICAL
Ge*ner"ic, Ge*ner"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. genus, generis, race, kind: cf.
F. générique. See Gender.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Pertaining to a genus or kind; relating to a genus, as distinct
from a species, or from another genus; as, a generic description; a
generic difference; a generic name.

2. Very comprehensive; pertaining or appropriate to large classes or
their characteristics; -- opposed to Ant: specific.

GENERICALLY
Ge*ner"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: With regard to a genus, or an extensive class; as, an animal
generically distinct from another, or two animals or plants
generically allied.

GENERICALNESS
Ge*ner"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being generic.

GENERIFICATION
Ge*ner`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. genus kind, class + -ficare (in
comp.) to make. See -fy.]

Defn: The act or process of generalizing.
Out of this the universal is elaborated by generification. Sir W.
Hamilton.

GENEROSITY
Gen`er*os"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. generositas: cf. F. générosité.]

1. Noble birth. [Obs.] Harris (Voyages).

2. The quality of being noble; noble-mindedness.
Generosity is in nothing more seen than in a candid estimation of
other men's virtues and good qualities. Barrow.

3. Liberality in giving; munificence.

Syn.
 -- Magnanimity; liberality.

GENEROUS
Gen"er*ous, a. Etym: [F. généreux, fr. L. generous of noble birth,
noble, excellent, magnanimous, fr. genus birth, race: cf. It.
generoso. See 2d Gender.]

1. Of honorable birth or origin; highborn. [Obs.]
The generous and gravest citizens. Shak.

2. Exhibiting those qualities which are popularly reregarded as
belonging to high birth; noble; honorable; magnanimous; spirited;
courageous. "The generous critic." Pope. "His generous spouse." Pope.
"A generous pack [of hounds]." Addison.

3. Open-handed; free to give; not close or niggardly; munificent; as,
a generous friend or father.

4. Characterized by generosity; abundant; overflowing; as, a generous
table. Swift.

5. Full of spirit or strength; stimulating; exalting; as, generous
wine.

Syn.
 -- Magnanimous; bountiful. See Liberal.
 -- Gen"er*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Gen"er*ous*ness, n.

GENESEE EPOCH
Gen`e*see" ep"och. (Geol.)

Defn: The closing subdivision of the Hamilton period in the American
Devonian system; -- so called because the formations of this period
crop out in Genesee, New York.

GENESIAL
Ge*ne"sial, a.

Defn: Of or relating to generation.

GENESIOLGY
Ge*ne`si*ol"gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The doctrine or science of generation.

GENESIS
Gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. genus birth, race. See Gender.]

1. The act of producing, or giving birth or origin to anything; the
process or mode of originating; production; formation; origination.
The origin and genasis of poor Sterling's club. Carlyle.

2. The first book of the Old Testament; -- so called by the Greek
translators, from its containing the history of the creation of the
world and of the human race.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: Same as Generation.

GENET; GENETTE
Gen"et, Ge*nette" (, n. Etym: [F. genette, Sp. gineta, fr. Ar. jarnei

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of small Carnivora of the genus Genetta,
allied to the civets, but having the scent glands less developed, and
without a pouch.

Note: The common genet (Genetta vulgaris) of Southern Europe, Asia
Minor, and North Africa, is dark gray, spotted with black. The long
tail is banded with black and white. The Cape genet (G. felina), and
the berbe (G. pardina), are related African species.

2. The fur of the common genet (Genetta vulgaris); also, any skin
dressed in imitation of this fur.

GENET
Gen"et, n. Etym: [See Jennet.]

Defn: A small-sized, well-proportioned, Spanish horse; a jennet.
Shak.

GENETHLIAC
Ge*neth"li*ac, a. Etym: [L. genethliacus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to nativities; calculated by astrologers; showing
position of stars at one's birth. Howell.

GENETHLIAC
Ge*neth"li*ac, n.

1. A birthday poem.

2. One skilled in genethliacs.

GENETHLIACAL
Gen`eth*li"a*cal, a.

Defn: Genethliac.

GENETHLIACS
Ge*neth"li*acs, n.

Defn: The science of calculating nativities, or predicting the future
events of life from the stars which preside at birth. Jhonson.

GENETHLIALOGY
Ge*neth`li*al"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Divination as to the destinies of one newly born; the act or
art of casting nativities; astrology.

GENETHLIATIC
Ge*neth`li*at"ic, n.

Defn: One who calculates nativities. Sir W. Drummond.

GENETIC
Ge*net"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Genetical.

GENETICAL
Ge*net"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Genesis.]

Defn: Pertaining to, concerned with, or determined by, the genesis of
anything, or its natural mode of production or development.
This historical, genetical method of viewing prior systems of
philosophy. Hare.

GENETICALLY
Ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a genetical manner.

GENEVA
Ge*ne"va, n.

Defn: The chief city of Switzerland. Geneva Bible, a translation of
the Bible into English, made and published by English refugees in
Geneva (Geneva, 1560; London, 1576). It was the first English Bible
printed in Roman type instead of the ancient black letter, the first
which recognized the division into verses, and the first which
ommited the Apocrypha. In form it was a small quarto, and soon
superseded the large folio of Cranmer's translation. Called also
Genevan Bible.
 -- Geneva convention (Mil.), an agreement made by representatives of
the great continental powers at Geneva and signed in 1864,
establishing new and more humane regulation regarding the treatment
of the sick and wounded and the status of those who minister to them
in war. Ambulances and military hospitals are made neutral, and this
condition affects physicians, chaplains, nurses, and the ambulance
corps. Great Britain signed the convention in 1865.
 -- Geneva cross (Mil.), a red Greek cross on a white ground; -- the
flag and badge adopted in the Geneva convention.

GENEVA
Ge*ne"va, n. Etym: [F. genièvre juniper, juniper berry, gin, OF.
geneivre juniper, fr. L. juniperus the juniper tree: cf. D. jenever,
fr. F. genièvre. See Juniper, and cf. Gin a liquor.]

Defn: A strongly alcoholic liquor, flavores with juniper berries; --
made in Holland; Holland gin; Hollands.

GENEVAN
Ge*ne"van, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Geneva, in Switzerland; Genevese.

GENEVAN
Ge*ne"van, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Geneva.

2. A supported of Genevanism.

GENEVANISM
Ge*ne"van*ism, n. Etym: [From Geneva, where Calvin resided.]

Defn: Strict Calvinism. Bp. Montagu.

GENEVESE
Gen`e*vese", a. Etym: [Cf. L. Genevensis, F. génevois.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Geneva, in Switzerland; Genevan.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Geneva; collectively, the inhabitants
of Geneva; people of Geneva.

GENIAL
Ge*ni"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Genian.

GENIAL
Gen"ial, a. Etym: [L. genialis: cf. OF. genial. See Genius.]

1. Contributing to, or concerned in, propagation or production;
generative; procreative; productive. "The genial bed." Milton.
Creator Venus, genial power of love. Dryden.

2. Contributing to, and sympathizing with, the enjoyment of life;
sympathetically cheerful and cheering; jovial and inspiring joy or
happiness; exciting pleasure and sympathy; enlivening; kindly; as,
she was of a cheerful and genial disposition.
So much I feel my genial spirits droop. Milton.

3. Belonging to one's genius or natural character; native; natural;
inborn. [Obs.]
Natural incapacity and genial indisposition. Sir T. Browne.

4. Denoting or marked with genius [R.]
Men of genius have often attached the highest value to their less
genial works. Hare.
Genial gods (Pagan Mythol.), the powers supposed to preside over
marriage and generation.

GENIALITY
Ge`ni*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. genialitas.]

Defn: The quality of being genial; sympathetic cheerfulness; warmth
of disposition and manners.

GENIALLY
Gen"ial*ly, adv.

1. By genius or nature; naturally. [Obs.]
Some men are genially disposed to some opinions. Glanvill.

2. Gayly; cheerfully. Johnson.

GENIALNESS
Gen"ial*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being genial.

GENIAN
Ge*ni"an, a. Etym: [Gr. Chin.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the chin; mental; as, the genian
prominence.

GENICULATE
Ge*nic"u*late, a. Etym: [L. geniculatus, fr. geniculum little knee,
knot or joint, dim. of genu knee. See Knee.]

Defn: Bent abruptly at an angle, like the knee when bent; as, a
geniculate stem; a geniculate ganglion; a geniculate twin crystal.

GENICULATE
Ge*nic"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Geniculated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Geniculating.]

Defn: To form joints or knots on. [R.] Cockeram.

GENICULATED
Ge*nic"u*la`ted, a.

Defn: Same as Geniculate.

GENICULATION
Ge*nic`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. geniculatio a kneeling.]

1. The act of kneeling. [R.] Bp. Hall.

2. The state of being bent abruptly at an angle.

GENIE
Gé`nie, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Genius.

GENIO
Ge"ni*o, n. Etym: [It. See Genius.]

Defn: A man of a particular turn of mind. [R.] Tatler.

GENIOHYOID
Ge`ni*o*hy"oid, a. Etym: [Gr. hyoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the chin and hyoid bone; as, the geniohyoid
muscle.

GENIP; GENIP TREE
Gen"ip, n., or Genip tree.

1. Any tree or shrub of the genus Genipa.

2.  The West Indian sapindaceous tree Melicocca bijuga, which yields
the honeyberry; also, the related trees Exothea paniculata and E.
trifoliata.

GENIPAP
Gen"i*pap, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The edible fruit of a West Indian tree (Genipa Americana) of
the order Rubiaceæ. It is oval in shape, as a large as a small
orange, of a pale greenish color, and with dark purple juice.

GENISTA
Ge*nis"ta, n. Etym: [L., broom.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the common broom of Western Europe.

GENITAL
Gen"i*tal, a. Etym: [L. genitalis, fr. genere, gignere, to beget: cf.
F. génital. See Gender.]

Defn: Pertaining to generation, or to the generative organs. Genital
cord (Anat.), a cord developed in the fetus by the union of portions
of the Wolffian and Müllerian ducts and giving rise to parts of the
urogenital passages in both sexes.

GENITALS
Gen"i*tals, n. pl. Etym: [From Genital, a.: cf. L. genitalia.]

Defn: The organs of generation; the sexual organs; the private parts.

GENITING
Gen"i*ting, n. Etym: [See Jenneting.]

Defn: A species of apple that ripens very early. Bacon.

GENITIVAL
Gen`i*ti"val, a.

Defn: Possessing genitive from; pertaining to, or derived from, the
genitive case; as, a genitival adverb.
 -- Gen`i*ti"val*ly, adv.

GENITIVE
Gen"i*tive, a. Etym: [L. genitivus, fr. gignere, genitum, to beget:
cf. F. génitif. See Gender.] (Gram.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to that case (as the second case of Latin and
Greek nouns) which expresses source or possession. It corresponds to
the possessive case in English.

GENITIVE
Gen"i*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: The genitive case. Genitive absolute, a construction in Greek
similar to the ablative absolute in Latin. See Ablative absolute.

GENITOCRURAL
Gen`i*to*cru"ral, a. Etym: [Genital + crural.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the genital organs and the thigh; -- applied
especially to one of the lumbar nerves.

GENITOR
Gen"i*tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who begets; a generator; an originator. Sheldon.

2. pl.

Defn: The genitals. [Obs.] Holland.

GENITOURINARY
Gen`i*to*u"ri*na*ry, a. Etym: [Genital + urinary.] (Anat.)

Defn: See Urogenital.

GENITURE
Gen"i*ture, n. Etym: [L. genitura: cf. F. géniture.]

Defn: Generation; procreation; birth. Dryden.

GENIUS
Gen"ius, n.; pl. E. Geniuses; in sense 1, L. Genii. Etym: [L. genius,
prop., the superior or divine nature which is innate in everything,
the spirit, the tutelar deity or genius of a person or place, taste,
talent, genius, from genere, gignere, to beget, bring forth. See
Gender, and cf. Engine.]

1. A good or evil spirit, or demon, supposed by the ancients to
preside over a man's destiny in life; a tutelary deity; a
supernatural being; a spirit, good or bad. Cf. Jinnee.
The unseen genius of the wood. Milton.
We talk of genius still, but with thought how changed! The genius of
Augustus was a tutelary demon, to be sworn by and to receive
offerings on an altar as a deity. Tylor.

2. The peculiar structure of mind with whoch each individual is
endowed by nature; that disposition or aptitude of mind which is
peculiar to each man, and which qualifies him for certain kinds of
action or special success in any pursuit; special taste, inclination,
or disposition; as, a genius for history, for poetry, or painting.

3. Peculiar character; animating spirit, as of a nation, a religion,
a language.

4. Distinguished mental superiority; uncommon intellectual power;
especially, superior power of invention or origination of any kind,
or of forming new combinations; as, a man of genius.
Genius of the highest kind implies an unusual intensity of the
modifyng power. Coleridge.

5. A man endowed with uncommon vigor of mind; a man of superior
intellectual faculties; as, Shakespeare was a rare genius.

Syn.
 -- Genius, Talent. Genius implies high and peculiar gifts of nature,
impelling the mind to certain favorite kinds of mental effort, and
producing new combinations of ideas, imagery, etc. Talent supposes
general strength of intellect, with a peculiar aptitude for being
molded and directed to specific employments and valuable ends and
purposes. Genius is connected more or less with the exercise of
imagination, and reaches its ends by a kind of intuitive power.
Talent depends more on high mental training, and a perfect command of
all the faculties, memory, judgment, sagacity, etc. Hence we speak of
a genius for poetry, painting. etc., and a talent for business or
diplomacy. Among English orators, Lord Chatham was distinguished for
his genius; William Pitt for his preëminent talents, and especially
his unrivaled talent for debate.

Genius loci ( Etym: [L.], the genius or presiding divinity of a
place; hence, the pervading spirit of a place or institution, as of a
college, etc.

GENOA CAKE
Gen"o*a cake. (Cookery)

Defn: A rich glazed cake, with almonds, pistachios, filberts, or
other nuts; also, a rich currant cake with almonds on the top.

GENOESE
Gen`o*ese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Genoa, a city of Italy.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Genoa; collectively, the people of
Genoa.

GENOUILLERE
Ge*nouil`lère", n. Etym: [F.]

1. (Anc. Armor)

Defn: A metal plate covering the knee.

2. (Fort.)

Defn: That part of a parapet which lies between the gun platform and
the bottom of an embrasure.

-GENOUS
-ge*nous. Etym: [-gen + -ous.]

Defn: A suffix signifying producing, yielding; as, alkaligenous;
endogenous.

GENRE
Genre, n. Etym: [F. See Gender.] (Fine Arts)

Defn: A style of painting, sculpture, or other imitative art, which
illustrates everyday life and manners.

GENS
Gens, n.; pl. Gentes. Etym: [L. See Gentle, a.] (Rom. Hist.)

1. A clan or family connection, embracing several families of the
same stock, who had a common name and certain common religious rites;
a subdivision of the Roman curia or tribe.

2. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A minor subdivision of a tribe, among American aborigines. It
includes those who have a common descent, and bear the same totem.

GENT
Gent, a. Etym: [OF. gent, fr. L. genitus born, or (less prob.) fr.
gentilis. See Genteel.]

1. Gentle; noble; of gentle birth. [Obs.]
All of a knight [who] was fair and gent. Chaucer.

2. Neat; pretty; fine; elegant. [Obs.] Spenser.
Her body gent and small. Chaucer.

GENTEEL
Gen*teel", a. Etym: [F. gentil noble, pretty, graceful. See Gentle.]

1. Possessing or exhibiting the qualities popularly regarded as
belonging to high birth and breeding; free from vulgarity, or lowness
of taste or behavior; adapted to a refined or cultivated taste;
polite; well-bred; as, genteel company, manners, address.

2. Graceful in mien or form; elegant in appearance, dress, or manner;
as, the lady has a genteel person. Law.

3. Suited to the position of lady or a gentleman; as, to live in a
genteel allowance.

Syn.
 -- Polite; well-bred; refined; polished.

GENTEELISH
Gen*teel"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat genteel.

GENTEELLY
Gen*teel"ly, adv.

Defn: In a genteel manner.

GENTEELNESS
Gen*teel"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being genteel.

GENTERIE; GENTRIE
Gen"ter*ie, Gen"trie (, n. Etym: [OE. See Gentry.]

Defn: Nobility of birth or of character; gentility. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GENTIAN
Gen"tian, n. Etym: [OE. genciane, F. gentiane, L. gentiana, fr.
Gentius, an Illyrian king, said to have discovered its properties.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Any one of a genus (Gentiana) of herbaceous plants with
opposite leaves and a tubular four- or five-lobed corolla, usually
blue, but sometimes white, yellow, or red. See Illust. of Capsule.

Note: Many species are found on the highest mountains of Europe,
Asia, and America, and some are prized for their beauty, as the
Alpine (Gentiana verna, Bavarica, and excisa), and the American
fringed gentians (G. crinita and G. detonsa). Several are used as
tonics, especially the bitter roots of Gentiana lutea, the officinal
gentian of the pharmacopoeias. Horse gentian, fever root.
 -- Yellow gentian (Bot.), the officinal gentian (Gentiana lutea).
See Bitterwort.

GENTIANACEOUS
Gen`tian*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Gentianaceæ) of
which the gentian is the type.

GENTIANELLA
Gen`tian*el"la, n. Etym: [See Gentian.]

Defn: A kind of blue color. Johnson.

GENTIANIC
Gen`ti*an"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to or derived from the gentian; as, gentianic acid.

GENTIANINE
Gen"tian*ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter, crystallizable substance obtained from gentian.

GENTIANOSE
Gen"tian*ose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A crystallizable, sugarlike substance, with a slightly sweetish
taste, obtained from the gentian.

GENTIL
Gen"til, a. & n.

Defn: Gentle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GENTILE
Gen"tile, n. Etym: [L. gentilis belonging to the same clan, stock,
race, people, or nation; in opposition to Roman, a foreigner; in
opposition to Jew or Christian, a heathen: cf. F. gentil. See Gentle,
a.]

Defn: One of a non-Jewish nation; one neither a Jew nor a Christian;
a worshiper of false gods; a heathen.

Note: The Hebrews included in the term goyim, or nations, all the
tribes of men who had not received the true faith, and were not
circumcised. The Christians translated goyim by the L. gentes, and
imitated the Jews in giving the name gentiles to all nations who were
neither Jews nor Christians. In civil affairs, the denomination was
given to all nations who were not Romans.

Syn.
 -- Pagan; heathen. See Pagan.

GENTILE
Gen"tile, a.

1. Belonging to the nations at large, as distinguished from the Jews;
ethnic; of pagan or heathen people.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Denoting a race or country; as, a gentile noun or adjective.

GENTILE-FALCON
Gen"tile-fal`con, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Falcon-gentil.

GENTILESSE
Gen`ti*lesse", n. Etym: [OF. gentilesse, gentelise, F. gentillesse.
See Gentle. a.]

Defn: Gentleness; courtesy; kindness; nobility. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GENTILISH
Gen"til*ish, a.

Defn: Heathenish; pagan.

GENTILISM
Gen"til*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. gentilisme.]

1. Hethenism; paganism; the worship of false gods.

2. Tribal feeling; devotion to one's gens.

GENTILITIAL; GENTILITIOUS
Gen`ti*li"tial, Gen`ti*li"tious, a. Etym: [L. gentilitius. See
Gentile.] [Obs.]

1. Peculiar to a people; national. Sir T. Browne.

2. Hereditary; entailed on a family. Arbuthnot.

GENTILITY
Gen*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. gentilitas the relationship of those who
belong to the same clan, also, heathenism: cf. F. gentilité
heathenism. See Gentile.]

1. Good extraction; dignity of birth. Macaulay.
He . . . mines my gentility with my education. Shak.

2. The quality or qualities appropriate to those who are well born,
as self-respect, dignity, courage, courtesy, politeness of manner, a
graceful and easy mien and behavior, etc.; good breeding.

3. The class in society who are, or are expected to be, genteel; the
gentry. [R.] Sir J. Davies.

4. Paganism; heathenism. [Obs.] Hooker.

GENTILIZE
Gen"til*ize, v. i. Etym: [See Gentile.]

1. To live like a gentile or heathen. [Obs.] Milton.

2. To act the gentleman; -- with it (see It, 5). [Obs.]

GENTILIZE
Gen"til*ize, v. i.

Defn: To render gentile or gentlemanly; as, to gentilize your
unworthy sones. [R.] Sylvester.

GENTILLY
Gen"til*ly, adv. Etym: [From Gentil, a.]

Defn: In a gentle or hoble manner; frankly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GENTIOPIKRIN
Gen`ti*o*pi"krin, n. Etym: [Gentian + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter, yellow, crystalline substance, regarded as a
glucoside, and obtained from the gentian.

GENTISIN
Gen"ti*sin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A tasteless, yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from the
gentian; -- called also gentianin.

GENTLE
Gen"tle, a. [Compar. Gentler; superl. Gentlest.] Etym: [OE. gentil,
F. gentil noble, pretty, graceful, fr. L. gentilis of the same clan
or race, fr. gens, gentis, tribe, clan, race, orig. that which
belongs together by birth, fr. the root of genere, gignere, to beget;
hence gentle, properly, of birth or family, that is, of good or noble
birth. See Gender, and cf. Genteel, Gentil, Gentile, Gentoo, Jaunty.]

1. Well-born; of a good family or respectable birth, though not
noble.
British society is divided into nobility, gentry, and yeomanry, and
families are either noble, gentle, or simple. Johnson's Cyc.
The studies wherein our noble and gentle youth ought to bestow their
time. Milton.

2. Quiet and refined in manners; not rough, harsh, or stern; mild;
meek; bland; amiable; tender; as, a gentle nature, temper, or
disposition; a gentle manner; a gentle address; a gentle voice.

3. A compellative of respect, consideration, or conciliation; as,
gentle reader. "Gentle sirs." "Gentle Jew." "Gentle servant." Shak.

4. Not wild, turbulent, or refractory; quiet and docile; tame;
peaceable; as, a gentle horse.

5. Soft; not violent or rough; not strong, loud, or disturbing; easy;
soothing; pacific; as, a gentle touch; a gentle gallop. "Gentle
music." Sir J. Davies.
O sleep! it is a gentle thing. Coleridge.
The gentle craft, the art or trade of shoemaking.

Syn.
 -- Mild; meek; placid; dovelike; quiet; peaceful; pacific; bland;
soft; tame; tractable; docile.
 -- Gentle, Tame, Mild, Meek. Gentle describes the natural
disposition; tame, that which is subdued by training; mild implies a
temper which is, by nature, not easily provoked; meek, a spirit which
has been schooled to mildness by discipline or suffering. The lamb is
gentle; the domestic fowl is tame; John, the Apostle, was mild; Moses
was meek.

GENTLE
Gen"tle, n.

1. One well born; a gentleman. [Obs.]
Gentles, methinks you frown. Shak.

2. A trained falcon. See Falcon-gentil.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A dipterous larva used as fish bait.

GENTLE
Gent"le, v. t.

1. To make genteel; to raise from the vulgar; to ennoble. [Obs.]
Shak.

2. To make smooth, cozy, or agreeable. [R. or Poet.]
To gentle life's descent, We shut our eyes, and think it is a plain.
Young.

3. To make kind and docile, as a horse. [Colloq.]

GENTLEFOLK; GENTLEFOLKS
Gen"tle*folk`, Gen"tle*folks` (, n. pl.

Defn: Persons of gentle or good family and breeding. Etym: [Generally
in the United States in the plural form.] Shak.

GENTLE-HEARTED
Gen"tle-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Having a kind or gentle disposition. Shak.
 -- Gen"tle-heart`ed*ness, n.

GENTLEMAN
Gen"tle*man, n.; pl. Gentlemen. Etym: [OE. gentilman nobleman; gentil
noble + man man; cf. F. gentilhomme.]

1. A man well born; one of good family; one above the condition of a
yeoman.

2. One of gentle or refined manners; a well-bred man.

3. (Her.)

Defn: One who bears arms, but has no title.

4. The servant of a man of rank.
The count's gentleman, one Cesario. Shak.

5. A man, irrespective of condition; -- used esp. in the plural (=
citizens; people), in addressing men in popular assemblies, etc.

Note: In Great Britain, the term gentleman is applied in a limited
sense to those having coats of arms, but who are without a title,
and, in this sense, gentlemen hold a middle rank between the nobility
and yeomanry. In a more extended sense, it includes every man above
the rank of yeoman, comprehending the nobility. In the United States,
the term is applied to men of education and good breeding of every
occupation. Gentleman commoner, one of the highest class of commoners
at the University of Oxford.
 -- Gentleman usher, one who ushers visitors into the presence of a
sovereign, etc.
 -- Gentleman usher of the black rod, an usher belonging to the Order
of the Garter, whose chief duty is to serve as official messenger of
the House of Lords.
 -- Gentlemen-at-arms, a band of forty gentlemen who attend the
sovereign on state occasions; formerly called gentlemen pensioners.
[Eng.]

GENTLEMANHOOD
Gen"tle*man*hood, n.

Defn: The qualities or condition of a gentleman. [R.] Thackeray.

GENTLEMANLIKE; GENTLEMANLY
Gen"tle*man*like`, Gen"tle*man*ly, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, resembling, or becoming, a gentleman; well-
behaved; courteous; polite.

GENTLEMANLINESS
Gen"tle*man*li*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being gentlemanly; gentlemanly conduct or manners.

GENTLEMANSHIP
Gen"tle*man*ship, n.

Defn: The carriage or quality of a gentleman.

GENTLEMEN'S AGREEMENT
Gen"tle*men's a*gree"ment.

Defn: An agreement binding only as a matter of honor; often, specif.,
such an agreement among the heads of industrial or merchantile
enterprises, the terms of which could not be included and enforced in
a legal contract.

GENTLENESS
Gen"tle*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being gentle, well-born, mild,
benevolent, docile, etc.; gentility; softness of manners,
disposition, etc.; mildness.

GENTLESHIP
Gen"tle*ship, n.

Defn: The deportment or conduct of a gentleman. [Obs.] Ascham.

GENTLESSE
Gent"lesse, n.

Defn: Gentilesse; gentleness. [Obs.]

GENTLEWOMAN
Gen"tle*wom`an, n.; pl. Gentlewomen (.

1. A woman of good family or of good breeding; a woman above the
vulgar. Bacon.

2. A woman who attends a lady of high rank. Shak.

GENTLY
Gen"tly, adv.

Defn: In a gentle manner.
My mistress gently chides the fault I made. Dryden.

GENTOO
Gen*too", n.; pl. Gentoos. Etym: [Pg. gentio gentile, heathen. See
Gentile.]

Defn: A native of Hindostan; a Hindoo. [Archaic]

GENTRY
Gen"try, n. Etym: [OE. genterie, gentrie, noble birth, nobility, cf.
gentrise, and OF. gentelise, genterise, E. gentilesse, also OE.
genteleri high-mindedness. See Gent, a., Gentle, a.]

1. Birth; condition; rank by birth. [Obs.] "Pride of gentrie."
Chaucer.
She conquers him by high almighty Jove, By knighthood, gentry, and
sweet friendship's oath. Shak.

2. People of education and good breeding; in England, in a restricted
sense, those between the nobility and the yeomanry. Macaulay.

3. Courtesy; civility; complaisance. [Obs.]
To show us so much gentry and good will. Shak.

GENTY
Gen"ty, a. Etym: [From F. gentil. Cf. Jaunty.]

Defn: Neat; trim. [Scot.] Burns.

GENU
Ge"nu, n.; pl. Genua. Etym: [L., the knee.] (Anat.)
(a) The knee.
(b) The kneelike bend, in the anterior part of the callosum of the
brain.

GENUFLECT
Gen`u*flect", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Genuflected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Genuflecting.] Etym: [See Genuflection.]

Defn: To bend the knee, as in worship.

GENUFLECTION
Gen`u*flec"tion, n. Etym: [F. génuflexion, fr. LL. genuflexio, fr. L.
genu knee + flexio a bending, fr. flectere, flexum, to bend. See
Knee, Flexible.]

Defn: The act of bending the knee, particularly in worship. Bp.
Stillingfleet.

GENUINE
Gen"u*ine, a. Etym: [L. genuinus, fr. genere, gignere, to beget, in
pass., to be born: cf. F. génuine. See Gender.]

Defn: Belonging to, or proceeding from, the original stock; native;
hence, not counterfeit, spurious, false, or adulterated; authentic;
real; natural; true; pure; as, a genuine text; a genuine production;
genuine materials. "True, genuine night." Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Authentic; real; true; pure; unalloyed; unadulterated. See
Authentic.
 -- Gen"u*ine*ly, adv.
 -- Gen"u*ine*ness, n.
The evidence, both internal and external, against the genuineness of
these letters, is overwhelming. Macaulay.

GENUS
Ge"nus, n.; pl. Genera. Etym: [L., birth, race, kind, sort; akin to
Gr. Gender, and cf. Benign.]

1. (Logic)

Defn: A class of objects divided into several subordinate species; a
class more extensive than a species; a precisely defined and exactly
divided class; one of the five predicable conceptions, or sorts of
terms.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: An assemblage of species, having so many fundamental points of
structure in common, that in the judgment of competent scientists,
they may receive a common substantive name. A genus is not
necessarily the lowest definable group of species, for it may often
be divided into several subgenera. In proportion as its definition is
exact, it is natural genus; if its definition can not be made clear,
it is more or less an artificial genus.

Note: Thus in the animal kingdom the lion, leopard, tiger, cat, and
panther are species of the Cat kind or genus, while in the vegetable
kingdom all the species of oak form a single genus. Some genera are
represented by a multitude of species, as Solanum (Nightshade) and
Carex (Sedge), others by few, and some by only one known species.
Subaltern genus (Logic), a genus which may be a species of a higher
genus, as the genus denoted by quadruped, which is also a species of
mammal.
 -- Summum genus Etym: [L.] (Logic), the highest genus; a genus which
can not be classed as a species, as being .

GENYS
Ge"nys, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Conys.

GEOCENTRIC; GEOCENTRICAL
Ge`o*cen"tric, Ge`o*cen"tric*al, a. Etym: [Gr. géocentrique.]
(Astron.)
(a) Having reference to the earth as center; in relation to or seen
from the earth, -- usually opposed to heliocentric, as seen from the
sun; as, the geocentric longitude or latitude of a planet.
(b) Having reference to the center of the earth. Geocentric latitude
(of place) the angle included between the radius of the earth through
the place and the plane of the equator, in distinction from
geographic latitude. It is a little less than the geographic
latitude.

GEOCENTRICALLY
Ge`o*cen"tric*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a geocentric manner.

GEOCHEMISTRY
Ge`o*chem"is*try (je`o*kem"is*try), n. [Gr. ge`a, gh^, the earth +
chemistry.]

Defn: The study of the chemical composition of, and of actual or
possible chemical changes in, the crust of the earth. --
Ge`o*chem"ic*al (#), a. --Ge`o*chem"ist (#), n.

GEOCRONITE
Ge*oc"ro*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. geokronit.] (Min.)

Defn: A lead-gray or grayish blue mineral with a metallic luster,
consisting of sulphur, antimony, and lead, with a small proportion of
arsenic.

GEOCYCLIC
Ge`o*cyc"lic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Of, pertaining to, or illustrating, the revolutions of the earth;
as, a geocyclic machine.

2. Circling the earth periodically.

GEODE
Ge"ode, n. Etym: [F. géode, L. geodes, fr. Gr. (Min.)
(a) A nodule of stone, containing a cavity, lined with crystals or
mineral matter.
(b) The cavity in such a nodule.

GEODEPHAGOUS
Ge`o*deph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Living in the earth; -- applied to the ground beetles.

GEODESIC; GEODESICAL
Ge`o*des"ic, Ge`o*des"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géodésique.] (Math.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to geodetic.

GEODESIC
Ge`o*des"ic, n.

Defn: A geodetic line or curve.

GEODESIST
Ge*od"e*sist, n.

Defn: One versed in geodesy.

GEODESY
Ge*od"e*sy, n. Etym: [Gr. géodésie.] (Math.)

Defn: That branch of applied mathematics which determines, by means
of observations and measurements, the figures and areas of large
portions of the earth's surface, or the general figure and
dimenshions of the earth; or that branch of surveying in which the
curvature of the earth is taken into account, as in the surveys of
States, or of long lines of coast.

GEODETIC; GEODETICAL
Ge`o*det"ic, Ge`o*det"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to gebdesy; obtained or determined by the
operations of geodesy; engaged in geodesy; geodesic; as, geodetic
surveying; geodetic observers. Geodetic line or curve, the shortest
line that can be drawn between two points on the elipsoidal surface
of the earth; a curve drawn on any given surface so that the
osculating plane of the curve at every point shall contain the normal
to the surface; the minimum line that can be drawn on any surface
between any two points.

GEODETICALLY
Ge`o*det"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a geodetic manner; according to geodesy.

GEODETICS
Ge`o*det"ics, n.

Defn: Same as Geodesy.

GEODIFEROUS
Ge`o*dif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Geode + -ferous.] (Min.)

Defn: Producing geodes; containing geodes.

GEODUCK
Ge"o*duck, n. Etym: [American Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gigantic clam (Glycimeris generosa) of the Pacific coast of
North America, highly valued as an article of food.

GEOGNOSIS
Ge`og*no"sis, n. Etym: [See Geognosy.]

Defn: Knowledge of the earth. [R.] G. Eliot.

GEOGNOST
Ge"og*nost, n. Etym: [Cf. F. géognoste.]

Defn: One versed in geognosy; a geologist. [R.]

GEOGNOSTIC; GEOGNOSTICAL
Ge`og*nos"tic, Ge`og*nos"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géognostique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to geognosy, or to a knowledge of the
structure of the earth; geological. [R.]

GEOGNOSY
Ge*og"no*sy, n. Etym: [Gr. géognosie.]

Defn: That part of geology which treats of the materials of the
earth's structure, and its general exterior and interior
constitution.

GEOGONIC; GEOGONICAL
Ge`o*gon"ic, Ge`o*gon"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géogonique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to geogony, or to the formation of the earth.

GEOGONY
Ge*og"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. géogonie.]

Defn: The branch of science which treats of the formation of the
earth.

GEOGRAPHER
Ge*og"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One versed in geography.

GEOGRAPHIC; GEOGRAPHICAL
Ge`o*graph"ic, Ge`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. geographicus, Gr.
géographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to geography. Geographical distribution. See
under Distribution.
 -- Geographic latitude (of a place), the angle included between a
line perpendicular or normal to the level surface of water at rest at
the place, and the plane of the equator; differing slightly from the
geocentric latitude by reason of the difference between the earth's
figure and a true sphere.
 -- Geographical mile. See under Mile.
 -- Geographical variation, any variation of a species which is
dependent on climate or other geographical conditions.

GEOGRAPHICALLY
Ge`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a geographical manner or method; according to geography.

GEOGRAPHY
Ge*og"ra*phy, n.; pl. Geographies. Etym: [F. géographie, l.
geographia, fr. Gr. Graphic.]

1. The science which treats of the world and its inhabitants; a
description of the earth, or a portion of the earth, including its
structure, fetures, products, political divisions, and the people by
whom it is inhabited.

2. A treatise on this science. Astronomical, or Mathematical,
geography treats of the earth as a planet, of its shape, its size,
its lines of latitude and longitude, its zones, and the phenomena due
to to the earth's diurnal and annual motions.
 -- Physical geography treats of the conformation of the earth's
surface, of the distribution of land and water, of minerals, plants,
animals, etc., and applies the principles of physics to the
explanation of the diversities of climate, productions, etc.
 -- Political geography treats of the different countries into which
earth is divided with regard to political and social and institutions
and conditions.