

GEOLATRY
Ge*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The worship of the earth. G. W. Cox. The Geological Series.

Note: The science of geology, as treating of the history of the
globe, involves a description of the different strata which compose
its crust, their order of succession, characteristic forms of animal
and vegetable life, etc. The principal subdivisions of geological
time, and the most important strata, with their relative positions,
are indicated in the following diagram.

GEOLOGER; GEOLOGIAN
Ge*ol"o*ger, Ge`o*lo"gi*an, n.

Defn: A geologist.

GEOLOGIC; GEOLOGICAL
Ge`o*log"ic, Ge`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to geology, or the science of the earth.

GEOLOGICALLY
Ge`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a geological manner.

GEOLOGIST
Ge*ol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Géologiste.]

Defn: One versed in the science of geology.

GEOLOGIZE
Ge*ol"o*gize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Geologized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Geologizing.]

Defn: To study geology or make geological investigations in the
field; to discourse as a geologist.
During midsummer geologized a little in Shropshire. Darwin.

GEOLOGY
Ge*ol"o*gy, n.; pl. Geologies. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. géologie.]

1. The science which treats: (a) Of the structure and mineral
constitution of the globe; structural geology. (b) Of its history as
regards rocks, minerals, rivers, valleys, mountains, climates, life,
etc.; historical geology. (c) Of the causes and methods by which its
structure, features, changes, and conditions have been produced;
dynamical geology. See Chart of The Geological Series.

2. A treatise on the science.

GEOMALISM
Ge*om"a*lism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The tendency of an organism to respond, during its growth, to
the force of gravitation.

GEOMANCER
Ge"o*man`cer, n.

Defn: One who practices, or is versed in, geomancy.

GEOMANCY
Ge"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [OE. geomance, geomancie, F. géomance,
géomancie, LL. geomantia, fr. Gr.

Defn: A kind of divination by means of figures or lines, formed by
little dots or points, originally on the earth, and latterly on
paper.

GEOMANTIC; GEOMANTICAL
Ge`o*man"tic, Ge`o*man"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géomantique.]

Defn: Pertaining or belonging to geomancy.

GEOMETER
Ge*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [F. géomètre, L. geometres, geometra, fr. Gr.
Meter measure.]

1. One skilled in geometry; a geometrician; a mathematician. I.
Watts.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of geometrid moth; a geometrid.

GEOMETRAL
Ge*om"e*tral, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géométral.]

Defn: Pertaining to geometry. [Obs.]

GEOMETRIC; GEOMETRICAL
Ge`o*met"ric, Ge`o*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [L. geometricus; Gr.
géométrique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or according to the rules or principles of,
geometry; determined by geometry; as, a geometrical solution of a
problem.

Note: Geometric is often used, as opposed to algebraic, to include
processes or solutions in which the propositions or principles of
geometry are made use of rather than those of algebra.

Note: Geometrical is often used in a limited or strictly technical
sense, as opposed to mechanical; thus, a construction or solution is
geometrical which can be made by ruler and compasses, i. e., by means
of right lines and circles. Every construction or solution which
requires any other curve, or such motion of a line or circle as would
generate any other curve, is not geometrical, but mechanical. By
another distinction, a geometrical solution is one obtained by the
rules of geometry, or processes of analysis, and hence is exact;
while a mechanical solution is one obtained by trial, by actual
measurements, with instruments, etc., and is only approximate and
empirical. Geometrical curve. Same as Algebraic curve; -- so called
because their different points may be constructed by the operations
of elementary geometry.
 -- Geometric lathe, an instrument for engraving bank notes, etc.,
with complicated patterns of interlacing lines; -- called also
cycloidal engine.
 -- Geometrical pace, a measure of five feet.
 -- Geometric pen, an instrument for drawing geometric curves, in
which the movements of a pen or pencil attached to a revolving arm of
ajustable length may be indefinitely varied by changing the toothed
wheels which give motion to the arm.
 -- Geometrical plane (Persp.), the same as Ground plane .
 -- Geometrical progression, proportion, ratio. See under
Progression, Proportion and Ratio.
 -- Geometrical radius, in gearing, the radius of the pitch circle of
a cogwheel. Knight.
 -- Geometric spider (Zoöl.), one of many species of spiders, which
spin a geometrical web. They mostly belong to Epeira and allied
genera, as the garden spider. See Garden spider.
 -- Geometric square, a portable instrument in the form of a square
frame for ascertaining distances and heights by measuring angles.
 -- Geometrical staircase, one in which the stairs are supported by
the wall at one end only.
 -- Geometrical tracery, in architecture and decoration, tracery
arranged in geometrical figures.

GEOMETRICALLY
Ge`o*met"ric*al*ly, adv.

Defn: According to the rules or laws of geometry.

GEOMETRICIAN
Ge*om`e*tri"cian, n.

Defn: One skilled in geometry; a geometer; a mathematician.

GEOMETRID
Ge*om"e*trid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining or belonging to the Geometridæ.

GEOMETRID
Ge*om"e*trid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of numerous genera and species of moths, of the family
Geometridæ; -- so called because their larvæ (called loopers,
measuring worms, spanworms, and inchworms) creep in a looping manner,
as if measuring. Many of the species are injurious to agriculture, as
the cankerworms.

GEOMETRIZE
Ge*om"e*trize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Geometrized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Geometrizing.]

Defn: To investigate or apprehend geometrical quantities or laws; to
make geometrical constructions; to proceed in accordance with the
principles of geometry.
Nature geometrizeth, and observeth order in all things. Sir T.
Browne.

GEOMETRY
Ge*om"e*try, n; pl. Geometries Etym: [F. géométrie, L. geometria, fr.
Gr. Geometer.]

1. That branch of mathematics which investigates the relations,
properties, and measurement of solids, surfaces, lines, and angles;
the science which treats of the properties and relations of
magnitudes; the science of the relations of space.

2. A treatise on this science. Analytical, or Coördinate, geometry,
that branch of mathematical analysis which has for its object the
analytical investigation of the relations and properties of
geometrical magnitudes.
 -- Descriptive geometry, that part of geometry which treats of the
graphic solution of all problems involving three dimensions.
 -- Elementary geometry, that part of geometry which treats of the
simple properties of straight lines, circles, plane surface, solids
bounded by plane surfaces, the sphere, the cylinder, and the right
cone.
 -- Higher geometry, that pert of geometry which treats of those
properties of straight lines, circles, etc., which are less simple in
their relations, and of curves and surfaces of the second and higher
degrees.

GEOPHAGISM
Ge*oph"a*gism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The act or habit of eating earth. See Dirt eating, under Dirt.
Dunglison.

GEOPHAGIST
Ge*oph"a*gist, n.

Defn: One who eats earth, as dirt, clay, chalk, etc.

GEOPHAGOUS
Ge*oph"a*gous, a.

Defn: Earth-eating.

GEOPHILA
Ge*oph"i*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of Mollusca which includes the land snails and
slugs.

GEOPONIC; GEOPONICAL
Ge`o*pon"ic, Ge`o*pon"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. géoponique.]

Defn: Pertaining to tillage of the earth, or agriculture.

GEOPONICS
Ge`o*pon"ics, n. Etym: [Gr. géoponique.]

Defn: The art or science of cultivating the earth; agriculture.
Evelin.

GEORAMA
Ge`o*ra"ma, n. Etym: [Gr. géorama.]

Defn: A hollow globe on the inner surface of which a map of the world
is depicted, to be examined by one standing inside.

GEORDIE
Geor"die, n.

Defn: A name given by miners to George Stephenson's safety lamp.
Raymond.

GEORGE
George, n. Etym: [F. George, or Georges, a proper name, fr. Gr. work.
See Work.]

1. A figure of St. George (the patron saint of England) on horseback,
appended to the collar of the Order of the Garter. See Garter.

2. A kind of brown loaf. [Obs.] Dryden.

GEORGE NOBLE
George" no`ble. Etym: [So called from the image of St. George on it.]

Defn: A gold noble of the time of Henry VIII. See Noble, n.

GEORGIAN
Geor"gi*an, a.

1. Of or pertaining to Georgia, in Asia, or to Georgia, one of the
United States.

2. Of or relating to the reigns of the four Georges, kings of Great
Britan; as, the Georgian era.

GEORGIAN
Geor"gi*an, n.

Defn: A native of, or dweller in, Georgia.

GEORGIAN ARCHITECTURE
Georgian architecture.

Defn: British or British colonial architecture of the period of the
four Georges, especially that of the period before 1800.

GEORGIC
Geor"gic, n. Etym: [L. georgicum (sc. carmen), and georgica, pl., Gr.
géorgiques, pl. See Georgic, a.]

Defn: A rural poem; a poetical composition on husbandry, containing
rules for cultivating lands, etc.; as, the Georgics of Virgil.

GEORGIC; GEORGICAL
Geor"gic, Geor"gic*al, a. Etym: [L. georgicus, Gr. géorgique. See
George.]

Defn: Relating to agriculture and rural affairs.

GEORGIUM SIDUS
Geor"gi*um Si`dus. Etym: [NL., the star of George (III. of England).]
(Astron.)

Defn: The planet Uranus, so named by its discoverer, Sir W. Herschel.

GEOSCOPY
Ge*os"co*py, n. Etym: [Gr. -scopy: cf. F. géoscopie.]

Defn: Knowledge of the earth, ground, or soil, obtained by
inspection. Chambers.

GEOSELENIC
Ge`o*se*len"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the earth and moon; belonging to the joint action
or mutual relations of the earth and moon; as, geoselenic phenomena.

GEOSTATIC
Ge`o*stat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. static.] (Civil Engin.)

Defn: Relating to the pressure exerted by earth or similar substance.
Geostatic arch, an arch having a form adapted to sustain pressure
similar to that exerted by earth. Rankine.

GEOSYNCLINAL
Ge`o*syn*cli"nal, n. Etym: [Gr. synclinal.] (Geol.)

Defn: the downward bend or subsidence of the earth's crust, which
allows of the gradual accumulation of sediment, and hence forms the
first step in the making of a mountain range; -- opposed to
geanticlinal.

GEOTHERMOMETER
Ge`o*ther*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. thermometer.] (Physics)

Defn: A thermometer specially constructed for measuring temperetures
at a depth below the surface of the ground.

GEOTIC
Ge*ot"ic a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Belonging to earth; terrestrial. [Obs.] Bailey.

GEOTROPIC
Ge`o*trop"ic, a. Etym: [See Geotropism.] (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to, or showing, geotropism.

GEOTROPISM
Ge*ot"ro*pism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A disposition to turn or incline towards the earth; the
influence of gravity in determining the direction of growth of an
organ.

Note: In plants, organs which grow towards the center of the earth
are said to be positively geotropic, and those growing in the
opposite direction negatively geotropic. In animals, geotropism is
supposed by some to have an influence either direct or indirect on
the plane of division of the ovum.

GEPHYREA
Ge*phyr"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of marine Annelida, in which the body is imperfectly,
or not at all, annulated externally, and is mostly without setæ.

GEPHYREAN
Ge*phyr"e*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Gephyrea.
 -- n. One of the Gerphyrea.

GEPHYREOID
Ge*phyr"e*oid, a. & n. Etym: [Gephyrea + -oid.]

Defn: Gephyrean.

GEPOUND
Ge*pound", n.

Defn: See Gipoun. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GERAH
Ge"rah, n. Etym: [Heb. g, lit., a bean.] (Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: A small coin and weight; 1-20th of a shekel.

Note: The silver gerah is supposed to have been worth about three
cents; the gold about fifty-four cents; the weight equivalent to
about thirteen grains.

GERANIACEOUS
Ge*ra`ni*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order of pants (Geraniaceæ) which
includes the genera Geranium, Pelargonium, and many others.

GERANIINE; GERANINE
Ge*ra"ni*ine, Ger"a*nine, n. Etym: [See Geranium.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A valuable astringet obtained from the root of the Geranium
maculatum or crane's-bill.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A liquid terpene, obtained from the crane's-bill (Geranium
maculatum), and having a peculiar mulberry odor. [Written also
geranium.]

GERANIUM
Ge*ra"ni*um, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. géranium. See Crane, n.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants having a beaklike tours or receptacle, around
which the seed capsules are arranged, and membranous projections, or
stipules, at the joints. Most of the species have showy flowers and a
pungent odor. Called sometimes crane's-bill.

2. (Floriculture)

Defn: A cultivated pelargonium.

Note: Many plants referred to the genus Geranium by the earlier
botanists are now separated from it under the name of Pelargonium,
which includes all the commonly cultivated "geraniums", mostly
natives of South Africa.

GERANT
Ge"rant, n. Etym: [F. gérant.]

Defn: The manager or acting partner of a company, joint-stock
association, etc.

GERBE
Gerbe, n. Etym: [F., prop. a sheaf.] (Pyrotechny)

Defn: A kind of ornamental firework. Farrow.

GERBIL; GERBILLE
Ger"bil, Ger`bille", n. Etym: [F. gerbille. Cf. Jerboa.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of small, jumping, murine rodents, of
the genus Gerbillus. In their leaping powers they resemble the
jerboa. They inhabit Africa, India, and Southern Europe.

GERBOA
Ger*bo"a, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The jerboa.

GERE
Gere, n.

Defn: Gear. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GERENT
Ge"rent, a. Etym: [L. gerens, p. pr. of gerere to bear, manage.]

Defn: Bearing; carrying. [Obs.] Bailey.

GERFALCON
Ger"fal`con, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Gyrfalcon.

GERFUL
Ger"ful, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. girer to twirl, E. gyrate.]

Defn: Changeable; capricious. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GERLAND; GERLOND
Ger"land, Ger"lond, n.

Defn: A garland. [Obs.]

GERLIND
Ger"lind, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A salmon returning from the sea the second time. [Prov. Eng.]

GERM
Germ, n. Etym: [F. germe, fr. L. germen, germinis, sprout, but, germ.
Cf. Germen, Germane.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: That which is to develop a new individual; as, the germ of a
fetus, of a plant or flower, and the like; the earliest form under
which an organism appears.
In the entire process in which a new being originates . . . two
distinct classes of action participate; namely, the act of generation
by which the germ is produced; and the act of development, by which
that germ is evolved into the complete organism. Carpenter.

2. That from which anything springs; origin; first principle; as, the
germ of civil liberty. Disease germ (Biol.), a name applied to
certain tiny bacterial organisms or their spores, such as Anthrax
bacillus and the Micrococcus of fowl cholera, which have been
demonstrated to be the cause of certain diseases. See Germ theory
(bellow).
 -- Germ cell (Biol.), the germ, egg, spore, or cell from which the
plant or animal arises. At one time a part of the body of the parent,
it finally becomes detached,and by a process of multiplication and
growth gives rise to a mass of cells, which ultimately form a new
individual like the parent. See Ovum.
 -- Germ gland. (Anat.) See Gonad.
 -- Germ stock (Zoöl.), a special process on which buds are developed
in certain animals. See Doliolum.
 -- Germ theory (Biol.), the theory that living organisms can be
produced only by the evolution or development of living germs or
seeds. See Biogenesis, and Abiogenesis. As applied to the origin of
disease, the theory claims that the zymotic diseases are due to the
rapid development and multiplication of various bacteria, the germs
or spores of which are either contained in the organism itself, or
transferred through the air or water. See Fermentation theory.

GERM
Germ, v. i.

Defn: To germinate. [R.] J. Morley.

GERMAIN
Ger*main", a. [Obs.]

Defn: See Germane.

GERMAN
Ger"man, a. Etym: [OE. german, germain, F. germain, fr. L. germanus
full, own (said of brothers and sisters who have the same parents);
akin to germen germ. Cf. Germ, Germane.]

Defn: Nearly related; closely akin.
Wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to the lion. Shak.
Brother german. See Brother german.
 -- Cousins german. See the Note under Cousin.

GERMAN
Ger"man, n.; pl. Germans Etym: [L. Germanus, prob. of Celtis origin.]

1. A native or one of the people of Germany.

2. The German language.

3.
(a) A round dance, often with a waltz movement, abounding in
capriciosly involved figures.
(b) A social party at which the german is danced. High German, the
Teutonic dialect of Upper or Southern Germany, -- comprising Old High
German, used from the 8th to the 11th century; Middle H. G., from the
12th to the 15th century; and Modern or New H. G., the language of
Luther's Bible version and of modern German literature. The dialects
of Central Germany, the basis of the modern literary language, are
often called Middle German, and the Southern German dialects Upper
German; but High German is also used to cover both groups.
 -- Low German, the language of Northern Germany and the Netherlands,
-- including Friesic; Anglo-Saxon or Saxon; Old Saxon; Dutch or Low
Dutch, with its dialect, Flemish; and Plattdeutsch (called also Low
German), spoken in many dialects.

GERMAN
Ger"man, a. Etym: [L. Germanus. See German, n.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Germany. German Baptists. See Dunker.
 -- German bit, a wood-boring tool, having a long elliptical pod and
a scew point.
 -- German carp (Zoöl.), the crucian carp.
 -- German millet (Bot.), a kind of millet (Setaria Italica, var.),
whose seed is sometimes used for food.
 -- German paste, a prepared food for caged birds.
 -- German process (Metal.), the process of reducing copper ore in a
blast furnace, after roasting, if necessary. Raymond.
 -- German sarsaparilla, a substitute for sarsaparilla extract.
 -- German sausage, a polony, or gut stuffed with meat partly cooked.
 -- German silver (Chem.), a silver-white alloy, hard and tough, but
malleable and ductile, and quite permanent in the air. It contains
nickel, copper, and zinc in varying proportions, and was originally
made from old copper slag at Henneberg. A small amount of iron is
sometimes added to make it whiter and harder. It is essentially
identical with the Chinese alloy packfong. It was formerly much used
for tableware, knife handles, frames, cases, bearings of machinery,
etc., but is now largely superseded by other white alloys.
 -- German steel (Metal.), a metal made from bog iron ore in a forge,
with charcoal for fuel.
 -- German text (Typog.), a character resembling modern German type,
used in English printing for ornamental headings, etc., as in the
words,

Note: This line is German Text.
 -- German tinder. See Amadou.

GERMANDER
Ger*man"der, n. Etym: [OE. germaunder, F. germandrée, It.
calamandrea, L. chamaedrys, fr. Gr.Humble, and Tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Teucrium (esp. Teucrium Chamædrys or wall
germander), mintlike herbs and low shrubs. American germander,
Teucrium Canadense.
 -- Germander chickweed, Veronica agrestis.
 -- Water germander, Teucrium Scordium.
 -- Wood germander, Teucrium Scorodonia.

GERMANE
Ger*mane", a. Etym: [See German akin, nearly related.]

Defn: Literally, near akin; hence, closely allied; appropriate or
fitting; relevant.
The phrase would be more germane to the matter. Shak.
[An amendment] must be germane. Barclay (Digest).

GERMANIC
Ger*man"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, germanium.

GERMANIC
Ger*man"ic, a. Etym: [L. Germanicus: cf. F. germanique. See German,
n.]

1. Of or pertaining to Germany; as, the Germanic confederacy.

2. Teutonic. [A loose sense]

GERMANISM
Ger"man*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. germanisme.]

1. An idiom of the German language.

2. A characteristic of the Germans; a characteristic German mode,
doctrine, etc.; rationalism. J. W. Alexander.

GERMANIUM
Ger*ma"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. Germania Germany.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare element, recently discovered (1885), in a silver ore
(argyrodite) at Freiberg. It is a brittle, silver-white metal,
chemically intermediate between the metals and nonmetals, resembles
tin, and is in general identical with the predicted ekasilicon.
Symbol Ge. Atomic weight 72.3.

GERMANIZATION
Ger`man*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of Germanizing. M. Arnold.

GERMANIZE
Ger"man*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Germanized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Germanizing.]

Defn: To make German, or like what is distinctively German; as, to
Germanize a province, a language, a society.

GERMANIZE
Ger"man*ize, v. i.

Defn: To reason or write after the manner of the Germans.

GERMARIUM
Ger*ma"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Germ.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An organ in which the ova are developed in certain Turbellaria.

GERM CELL
Germ cell. (Biol.)

Defn: A cell, of either sex, directly concerned in the production of
a new organism.

GERMEN
Ger"men, n.; pl. E. Germens, L. Germina. Etym: [L.]

Defn: See Germ.

GERMICIDAL
Ger"mi*ci`dal, a.

Defn: Germicide.

GERMICIDE
Ger"mi*cide, a. Etym: [Germ +L. caedere to kill.] (Biol.)

Defn: Destructive to germs; -- applied to any agent which has a
destructive action upon living germs, particularly bacteria, or
bacterial germs, which are considered the cause of many infectious
diseases.
 -- n.

Defn: A germicide agent.

GERMINAL
Ger"mi*nal, a. Etym: [See Germ.]

Defn: Pertaining or belonging to a germ; as, the germinal vesicle.
Germinal layers (Biol.), the two layers of cells, the ectoblast and
entoblast, which form respectively the outer covering and inner wall
of the gastrula. A third layer of cells, the mesoblast, which is
formed later and lies between these two, is sometimes included.
 -- Germinal membrane. (Biol.) Same as Blastoderm.
 -- Germinal spot (Biol.), the nucleolus of the ovum.
 -- Germinal vesicle, (Biol.) , the nucleus of the ovum of animals.

GERMINAL
Ger`mi*nal", n. Etym: [F. See Germ .]

Defn: The seventh month of the French republican calendar [1792 --
1806]. It began March 21 and ended April 19. See VendÉmiaire.

GERMINANT
Ger"mi*nant, a. Etym: [L. germinans, p. pr.]

Defn: Sprouting; sending forth germs or buds.

GERMINATE
Ger"mi*nate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Germinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Germinating.] Etym: [L. germinatus, p. p. of germinare to sprout, fr.
germen. See Germ.]

Defn: To sprout; to bud; to shoot; to begin to vegetate, as a plant
or its seed; to begin to develop, as a germ. Bacon.

GERMINATE
Ger"mi*nate, v. t.

Defn: To cause to sprout. Price (1610).

GERMINATION
Ger`mi*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. germinatio: cf. F. germination.]

Defn: The process of germinating; the beginning of vegetation or
growth in a seed or plant; the first development of germs, either
animal or vegetable. Germination apparatus, an apparatus for malting
grain.

GERMINATIVE
Ger"mi*na*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. germinatif.]

Defn: Pertaining to germination; having power to bud or develop.
Germinative spot, Germinative vesicle. (Biol.) Same as Germinal spot,
Germinal vesicle, under Germinal.

GERMIPARITY
Ger`mi*par"i*ty, n. Etym: [Germ + L. parere to produce.] (Biol.)

Defn: Reproduction by means of germs.

GERMLESS
Germ"less, a.

Defn: Without germs.

GERMOGEN
Ger"mo*gen, n. Etym: [Germ + -gen.] (Biol.)
(a) A polynuclear mass of protoplasm, not divided into separate
cells, from which certain ova are developed. Balfour.
(b) The primitive cell in certain embryonic forms. Balfour.

GERM PLASM
Germ" plasm`, (Biol.)

Defn: See Plasmogen, and Idioplasm.

GERM THEORY
Germ theory.

1. (Biol.)

Defn: The theory that living organisms can be produced only by the
development of living germs. Cf. Biogenesis, Abiogenesis.

2.  (Med.) The theory which attributes contagious and infectious
diseases, suppurative lesions, etc., to the agency of germs. The
science of bacteriology was developed after this theory had been
established.

GERMULE
Germ"ule, n. Etym: [Dim. fr. germ.] (Biol.)

Defn: A small germ.

GERN
Gern, v. t. Etym: [See Grin.]

Defn: To grin or yawn. [Obs.] "[/He] gaped like a gulf when he did
gern." Spenser.

GERNER
Ger"ner, n.

Defn: A garner. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GEROCOMIA
Ger`o*co"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Gerocomy.

GEROCOMICAL
Ger`o*com"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to gerocomy. Dr. John Smith.

GEROCOMY
Ge*roc"o*my, n. Etym: [F. gérocomie, fr. Gr.

Defn: That part of medicine which treats of regimen for old people.

GERONTES
Ge*ron"tes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: Magistrates in Sparta, who with the ephori and kings,
constituted the supreme civil authority.

GERONTOCRACY
Ger`on*toc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Government by old men. [R.] Gladstone.

GEROPIGIA
Ger`o*pig"i*a, n. Etym: [Pg. geropiga.]

Defn: A mixture composed of unfermented grape juice, brandy, sugar,
etc., for adulteration of wines. [Written also jerupigia.]

-GEROUS
-ger*ous. Etym: [L. -ger, fr. gerere to bear, carry. See Jest.]

Defn: A suffix signifying bearing, producing; as, calcigerous;
dentigerous.

GERRYMANDER
Ger`ry*man"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gerrymandered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gerrymandering.]

Defn: To divide (a State) into districts for the choice of
representatives, in an unnatural and unfair way, with a view to give
a political party an advantage over its opponent. [Political Cant, U.
S.]

Note: This was done in Massachusetts at a time when Elbridge Gerry
was governor, and was attributed to his influence, hence the name;
though it is now known that he was opposed to the measure. Bartlett.

GERUND
Ger"und, n. Etym: [L. gerundium, fr. gerere to bear, carry, perform.
See Gest a deed, Jest.] (Lat. Gram.)

1. A kind of verbal noun, having only the four oblique cases of the
singular number, and governing cases like a participle.

2. (AS. Gram.)

Defn: A verbal noun ending in -e, preceded by to and usually denoting
purpose or end; -- called also the dative infinitive; as, "Ic hæbbe
mete tô etanne" (I have meat to eat.) In Modern English the name has
been applied to verbal or participal nouns in -ing denoting a
transitive action; e. g., by throwing a stone.

GERUNDIAL
Ge*run"di*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a gerund; as, a gerundial use.

GERUNDIVE
Ge*run"dive, a. Etym: [L. gerundivus.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or partaking of, the nature of the gerund;
gerundial.
 -- n. (Lat. Gram.)

Defn: The future passive participle; as, amandus, i. e., to be loved.

GERUNDIVELY
Ge*run"dive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a gerund; as, or in place of, a gerund.

GERY
Ger"y, a. Etym: [See Gerful.]

Defn: Changeable; fickle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GESLING
Ges"ling, n.

Defn: A gosling. [Prov. Eng.]

GESSE
Gesse, v. t. & i.

Defn: To guess. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GESSO
Ges"so, n. [It., chalk, plaster.]

1. Plaster of Paris, or gypsum, esp. as prepared for use in painting,
or in making bas-reliefs and the like; by extension, a plasterlike or
pasty material spread upon a surface to fit it for painting or
gilding, or a surface so prepared.

2.  A work of art done in gesso. [Obs.]

GESSO DURO
Ges"so du"ro. [It., hard plaster.]

Defn: A variety of gesso which when dried becomes hard and durable,
often used in making bas-relief casts, which are colored and mounted
in elaborate frames.

GEST
Gest, n.

Defn: A guest. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GEST
Gest, n. Etym: [OF. geste exploit. See Jest.]

1. Something done or achieved; a deed or an action; an adventure.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

2. An action represented in sports, plays, or on the stage; show;
ceremony. [Obs.] Mede.

3. A tale of achievements or adventures; a stock story. [Obs.]
Chaucer. Spenser.

4. Gesture; bearing; deportment. [Archaic]
Through his heroic grace and honorable gest. Spenser.

GEST
Gest, n. Etym: [Cf. Gist a resting place.]

1. A stage in traveling; a stop for rest or lodging in a journey or
progress; a rest. [Obs.] Kersey.

2. A roll recting the several stages arranged for a royal progress.
Many of them are extant in the herald's office. [Obs.] Hanmer.

GESTANT
Ges"tant, a. Etym: [L. gestans, p. pr. of gestare.]

Defn: Bearing within; laden; burdened; pregnant. [R.] "Clouds gestant
with heat." Mrs. Browning.

GESTATION
Ges*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. gestatio a bearing, carrying, fr. gestare
to bear, carry, intens. fr. gerere, gestum, to bear: cf. F.
gestation. See Gest deed, Jest.]

1. The act of wearing (clothes or ornaments). [Obs.]

2. The act of carrying young in the womb from conception to delivery;
pregnancy.

3. Exercise in which one is borne or carried, as on horseback, or in
a carriage, without the exertion of his own powers; passive exercise.
Dunglison.

GESTATORY
Ges"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. gestatorius that serves for carrying: cf.
F. gestatoire.]

1. Pertaining to gestation or pregnancy.

2. Capable of being carried or worn. [Obs. or R.]

GESTE
Geste, v. i.

Defn: To tell stories or gests. [Obs.]

GESTIC
Ges"tic, a. Etym: [See Gest a deed, Gesture.]

1. Pertaining to deeds or feats of arms; legendary.
And the gay grandsire, skilled in gestic lore. Goldsmith.

2. Relating to bodily motion; consisting of gestures; -- said
especially with reference to dancing.
Carried away by the enthusiasm of the gestic art. Sir W. Scott.

GESTICULATE
Ges*tic"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gesticulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gesticulating.] Etym: [L. gesticulatus, p. p. of gesticulari to
gesticulate, fr. gesticulus a mimic gesture, gesticulation, dim. of
gestus gesture, fr. gerere, gestum, to bear, carry, peform. See
Gestic.]

Defn: To make gestures or motions, as in speaking; to use postures.
Sir T. Herbert.

GESTICULATE
Ges*tic"u*late, v. t.

Defn: To represent by gesture; to act. [R.] B. Jonson.

GESTICULATION
Ges*tic`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. gesticulatio: cf. F. gesticulation.]

1. The act of gesticulating, or making gestures to express passion or
enforce sentiments.

2. A gesture; a motion of the body or limbs in speaking, or in
representing action or passion, and enforcing arguments and
sentiments. Macaulay.

3. Antic tricks or motions. B. Jonson.

GESTICULATOR
Ges*tic"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who gesticulates.

GESTICULATORY
Ges*tic"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Representing by, or belonging to, gestures. T. Warton.

GESTOUR
Ges"tour, n. Etym: [See Gest a deed.]

Defn: A reciter of gests or legendary tales; a story-teller. [Obs.]
Minstrels and gestours for to tell tales. Chaucer.

GESTURAL
Ges"tur*al, a.

Defn: Relating to gesture.

GESTURE
Ges"ture, n. Etym: [LL. gestura mode of action, fr. L. gerere,
gestum, to bear, behave, perform, act. See Gest a deed.]

1. Manner of carrying the body; position of the body or limbs;
posture. [Obs.]
Accubation, or lying down at meals, was a gesture used by many
nations. Sir T. Browne.

2. A motion of the body or limbs expressive of sentiment or passion;
any action or posture intended to express an idea or a passion, or to
enforce or emphasize an argument, assertion, or opinion.
Humble and reverent gestures. Hooker.
Grace was in all her steps, heaven in her eye, In every gesture
dignity and love. Milton.

GESTURE
Ges"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gestured; p. pr. & vb. n. Gesturing.]

Defn: To accompany or illustrate with gesture or action; to
gesticulate.
It is not orderly read, nor gestured as beseemeth. Hooker.

GESTURE
Ges"ture, v. i.

Defn: To make gestures; to gesticulate.
The players . . . gestured not undecently withal. Holland.

GESTURELESS
Ges"ture*less, a.

Defn: Free from gestures.

GESTUREMENT
Ges"ture*ment, n.

Defn: Act of making gestures; gesturing. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

GET
Get, n.

Defn: Jet, the mineral. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GET
Get, n. Etym: [OF. get.]

1. Fashion; manner; custom. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Artifice; contrivance. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GET
Get, v. t. [imp. Got (Obs. Gat (); p. p. Got (Obsolescent Gotten); p.
pr. & vb. n. Getting.] Etym: [OE. geten, AS. gitan, gietan (in
comp.); akin to Icel. geta, Goth. bigitan to find, L. prehendere to
seize, take, Gr. Comprehend, Enterprise, Forget, Impregnable,
Prehensile.]

1. To procure; to obtain; to gain possession of; to acquire; to earn;
to obtain as a price or reward; to come by; to win, by almost any
means; as, to get favor by kindness; to get wealth by industry and
economy; to get favor by kindness; to get wealth by industry and
economy; to get land by purchase, etc.

2. Hence, with have and had, to come into or be in possession of; to
have. Johnson.
Thou hast got the face of man. Herbert.

3. To beget; to procreate; to generate.
I had rather to adopt a child than get it. Shak.

4. To obtain mental possession of; to learn; to commit to memory; to
memorize; as to get a lesson; also with out; as, to get out one's
Greek lesson.
It being harder with him to get one sermon by heart, than to pen
twenty. Bp. Fell.

5. To prevail on; to induce; to persuade.
Get him to say his prayers. Shak.

6. To procure to be, or to cause to be in any state or condition; --
with a following participle.
Those things I bid you do; get them dispatched. Shak.

7. To betake; to remove; -- in a reflexive use.
Get thee out from this land. Gen. xxxi. 13.
He . . . got himself . . . to the strong town of Mega. Knolles.

Note: Get, as a transitive verb, is combined with adverbs implying
motion, to express the causing to, or the effecting in, the object of
the verb, of the kind of motion indicated by the preposition; thus,
to get in, to cause to enter, to bring under shelter; as, to get in
the hay; to get out, to make come forth, to extract; to get off, to
take off, to remove; to get together, to cause to come together, to
collect. To get by heart, to commit to memory.
 -- To get the better of, To get the best of, to obtain an advantage
over; to surpass; to subdue.
 -- To get up, to cause to be established or to exit; to prepare; to
arrange; to construct; to invent; as, to get up a celebration, a
machine, a book, an agitation.

Syn.
 -- To obtain; gain; win; acquire. See Obtain.

GET
Get, v. i.

1. To make acquisition; to gain; to profit; to receive accessions; to
be increased.
We mourn, France smiles; we lose, they daily get. Shak.

2. To arrive at, or bring one's self into, a state, condition, or
position; to come to be; to become; -- with a following adjective or
past participle belonging to the subject of the verb; as, to get
sober; to get awake; to get beaten; to get elected.
To get rid of fools and scoundrels. Pope.
His chariot wheels get hot by driving fast. Coleridge.

Note: It [get] gives to the English language a middle voice, or a
power of verbal expression which is neither active nor passive. Thus
we say to get acquitted, beaten, confused, dressed. Earle.

Note: Get, as an intransitive verb, is used with a following
preposition, or adverb of motion, to indicate, on the part of the
subject of the act, movement or action of the kind signified by the
preposition or adverb; or, in the general sense, to move, to stir, to
make one's way, to advance, to arrive, etc.; as, to get away, to
leave to escape; to disengage one's self from; to get down, to
descend, esp. with effort, as from a literal or figurative elevation;
to get along, to make progress; hence, to prosper, succeed, or fare;
to get in, to enter; to get out, to extricate one's self, to escape;
to get through, to traverse; also, to finish, to be done; to get to,
to arrive at, to reach; to get off, to alight, to descend from, to
dismount; also, to escape, to come off clear; to get together, to
assemble, to convene. To get ahead, to advance; to prosper.
 -- To get along, to proceed; to advance; to prosper.
 -- To get a mile (or other distance), to pass over it in traveling.
 -- To get among, to go or come into the company of; to become one of
a number.
 -- To get asleep, to fall asleep.
 -- To get astray, to wander out of the right way.
 -- To get at, to reach; to make way to. To get away with, to carry
off; to capture; hence, to get the better of; to defeat.
 -- To get back, to arrive at the place from which one departed; to
return.
 -- To get before, to arrive in front, or more forward.
 -- To get behind, to fall in the rear; to lag.
 -- To get between, to arrive between.
 -- To get beyond, to pass or go further than; to exceed; to surpass.
"Three score and ten is the age of man, a few get beyond it."
Thackeray.
 -- To get clear, to disengage one's self; to be released, as from
confinement, obligation, or burden; also, to be freed from danger or
embarrassment.
 -- To get drunk, to become intoxicated.
 -- To get forward, to proceed; to advance; also, to prosper; to
advance in wealth.
 -- To get home, to arrive at one's dwelling, goal, or aim.
 -- To get into. (a) To enter, as, "she prepared to get into the
coach." Dickens. (b) To pass into, or reach; as, " as, " a language
has got into the inflated state." Keary.
 -- To get loose or free, to disengage one's self; to be released
from confinement.
 -- To get near, to approach within a small distance.
 -- To get on, to proceed; to advance; to prosper.
 -- To get over. (a) To pass over, surmount, or overcome, as an
obstacle or difficulty. (b) To recover from, as an injury, a
calamity.
 -- To get through. (a) To pass through something. (b) To finish what
one was doing.
 -- To get up. (a) To rise; to arise, as from a bed, chair, etc. (b)
To ascend; to climb, as a hill, a tree, a flight of stairs, etc.

GET
Get, n.

Defn: Offspring; progeny; as, the get of a stallion.

GETEN
Get"en, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Get. Chaucer.

GETH
Geth,

Defn: the original third pers. sing. pres. of Go. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GET-PENNY
Get"-pen`ny, n.

Defn: Something which gets or gains money; a successful affair.
[Colloq.] Chapman.

GETTABLE
Get"ta*ble, a.

Defn: That may be obtained. [R.]

GETTER
Get"ter, n.

Defn: One who gets, gains, obtains, acquires, begets, or procreates.

GETTERUP
Get"ter*up`, n.

Defn: One who contrives, makes, or arranges for, anything, as a book,
a machine, etc. [Colloq.]
A diligent getter-up of miscellaneous works. W. Irving.

GETTING
Get"ting, n.

1. The act of obtaining or acquiring; acquisition.
With all thy getting, get understanding. Prov. iv. 7.

2. That which is got or obtained; gain; profit.

GET-UP
Get"-up, n.

Defn: General composition or structure; manner in which the parts of
a thing are combined; make-up; style of dress, etc. [Colloq.] H.
Kingsley.

GEUSDISM
Geusd"ism (ged"iz'm), n.

Defn: The Marxian socialism and programme of reform through
revolution as advocated by the French political leader Jules Basile
Guesde (pron. ged) (1845- ). -- Guesd"ist (#), n. & a.

GEWGAW
Gew"gaw, n. Etym: [OE. gigawe, gugawe, gewgaude, prob. the same word
as OE. givegove gewgaw, apparently a reduplicated form fr. AS. gifan
to give; cf. also F. joujou plaything, and E. gaud, n. See Give, and
cf. Giffgaff.]

Defn: A showy trifle; a toy; a splendid plaything; a pretty but
worthless bauble.
A heavy gewgaw called a crown. Dryden.

GEWGAW
Gew"gaw, a.

Defn: Showy; unreal; pretentious.
Seeing his gewgaw castle shine. Tennyson.

GEYSER
Gey"ser, n. Etym: [Icel. geysir, fr. geysa to rush furiously, fr. gj
to gush. Cf. Gush.]

Defn: A boiling spring which throws forth at frequent intervals jets
of water, mud, etc., driven up by the expansive power of steam.

Note: Geysers were first known in Iceland, and later in New Zealand.
In the Yellowstone region in the United States they are numerous, and
some of them very powerful, throwing jets of boiling water and steam
to a height of 200 feet. They are grouped in several areas called
geyser basins. The mineral matter, or geyserite, with which geyser
water is charged, forms geyser cones about the orifice, often of
great size and beauty.

GEYSERITE
Gey"ser*ite, n. Etym: [From Geyser.] (Min.)

Defn: A loose hydrated form of silica, a variety of opal, deposited
in concretionary cauliflowerlike masses, around some hot springs and
geysers.

GHARRY
Ghar"ry, n. Etym: [Hind. ga.]

Defn: Any wheeled cart or carriage. [India]

GHAST
Ghast, v. t. Etym: [OE. gasten. See Ghastly, a.]

Defn: To strike aghast; to affright. [Obs.]
Ghasted by the noise I made. Full suddenly he fled. Shak.

GHASTFUL
Ghast"ful, a. Etym: [See Ghastly, a.]

Defn: Fit to make one aghast; dismal. [Obs.] -- Ghast"ful*ly, adv.

GHASTLINESS
Ghast"li*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being ghastly; a deathlike look.

GHASTLY
Ghast"ly, a. [Compar. Ghastlier; superl. Ghastliest.] Etym: [OE.
gastlich, gastli, fearful, causing fear, fr. gasten to terrify, AS.
gæstan. Cf. Aghast, Gast, Gaze, Ghostly.]

1. Like a ghost in appearance; deathlike; pale; pallid; dismal.
Each turned his face with a ghastly pang. Coleridge.
His face was so ghastly that it could scarcely be recognized.
Macaulay.

2. Horrible; shocking; dreadful; hideous.
Mangled with ghastly wounds through plate and mail. Milton.

GHASTLY
Ghast"ly, adv.

Defn: In a ghastly manner; hideously.
Staring full ghastly like a strangled man. Shak.

GHASTNESS
Ghast"ness, n.

Defn: Ghastliness. [Obs.] Shak.

GHAT; GHAUT
Ghat Ghaut, n. Etym: [Hind. ghat.]

1. A pass through a mountain. [India] J. D. Hooker.

2. A range of mountains. Balfour (Cyc. of Ind. ).

3. Stairs descending to a river; a landing place; a wharf. [India]
Malcom.

GHAWAZI
Gha*wa"zi, n. pl. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Egyptian dancing girls, of a lower sort than the almeh.

GHAZAL; GHAZEL
Ghaz"al, Ghaz"el, n. [Ar. ghazal.]

Defn: A kind of Oriental lyric, and usually erotic, poetry, written
in recurring rhymes.

GHAZI
Gha"zi, n. [Ar. ghazi.]

Defn: Among Mohammedans, a warrior champion or veteran, esp. in the
destruction of infidels.

GHEBER; GHEBRE
Ghe"ber Ghe"bre, n. Etym: [Pers. ghebr: cf. F. Guèbre. Cf. Giaour.]

Defn: A worshiper of fire; a Zoroastrian; a Parsee.

GHEE
Ghee, n. Etym: [Hind. ghi clarified butter, Skr. gh.]

Defn: Butter clarified by boiling, and thus converted into a kind of
oil. [India] Malcom.

GHERKIN
Gher"kin, n. Etym: [D. agurkje, a dim. akin to G. gurke, Dan. ag; cf.
Pol. ogórek, Bohem. okurka, LGr. al-khiyar, Per. khiyar.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of small, prickly cucumber, much used for pickles.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Sea gherkin.

GHESS
Ghess, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Guess. [Obs.]

GHETTO
Ghet"to, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: The Jews'quarter in an Italian town or city.
I went to the Ghetto, where the Jews dwell. Evelyn.

GHIBELLINE
Ghib"el*line, n. Etym: [It. Ghibellino; of German origin.] (It.
Hist.)

Defn: One of a faction in Italy, in the 12th and 13th centuries,
which favored the German emperors, and opposed the Guelfs, or
adherents of the poses. Brande & C.

GHOLE
Ghole, n.

Defn: See Ghoul.

GHOST
Ghost, n. Etym: [OE. gast, gost, soul, spirit, AS. gast breath,
spirit, soul; akin to OS. g spirit, soul, D. geest, G. geist, and
prob. to E. gaze, ghastly.]

1. The spirit; the soul of man. [Obs.]
Then gives her grieved ghost thus to lament. Spenser.

2. The disembodied soul; the soul or spirit of a deceased person; a
spirit appearing after death; an apparition; a specter.
The mighty ghosts of our great Harrys rose. Shak.
I thought that I had died in sleep, And was a blessed ghost.
Coleridge.

3. Any faint shadowy semblance; an unsubstantial image; a phantom; a
glimmering; as, not a ghost of a chance; the ghost of an idea.
Each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor. Poe.

4. A false image formed in a telescope by reflection from the
surfaces of one or more lenses. Ghost moth (Zoöl.), a large European
moth (Hepialus humuli); so called from the white color of the male,
and the peculiar hovering flight; -- called also great swift.
 -- Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit; the Paraclete; the Comforter;
(Theol.) the third person in the Trinity.
 -- To give up or yield up the ghost, to die; to expire.
And he gave up the ghost full softly. Chaucer.
Jacob . . . yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people.
Gen. xlix. 33.

GHOST
Ghost, v. i.

Defn: To die; to expire. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

GHOST
Ghost, v. t.

Defn: To appear to or haunt in the form of an apparition. [Obs.]
Shak.

GHOST DANCE
Ghost dance.

Defn: A religious dance of the North American Indians, participated
in by both sexes, and looked upon as a rite of invocation the purpose
of which is, through trance and vision, to bring the dancer into
communion with the unseen world and the spirits of departed friends.
The dance is the chief rite of the Ghost-dance, or Messiah, religion,
which originated about 1890 in the doctrines of the Piute Wovoka, the
Indian Messiah, who taught that the time was drawing near when the
whole Indian race, the dead with the living, should be reunited to
live a life of millennial happiness upon a regenerated earth. The
religion inculcates peace, righteousness, and work, and holds that in
good time, without warlike intervention, the oppressive white rule
will be removed by the higher powers. The religion spread through a
majority of the western tribes of the United States, only in the case
of the Sioux, owing to local causes, leading to an outbreak.

GHOSTFISH
Ghost"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A pale ubspotted variety of the wrymouth.

GHOSTLESS
Ghost"less, a.

Defn: Without life or spirit. [R.]

GHOSTLIKE
Ghost"like`, a.

Defn: Like a ghost; ghastly.

GHOSTLINESS
Ghost"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being ghostly.

GHOSTLY
Ghost"ly, a. Etym: [OE. gastlich, gostlich, AS. gastlic. See Ghost.]

1. Relating to the soul; not carnal or secular; spiritual; as, a
ghostly confessor.
Save and defend us from our ghostly enemies. Book of Common Prayer
[Ch. of Eng. ]
One of the gostly children of St. Jerome. Jer. Taylor.

2. Of or pertaining to apparitions. Akenside.

GHOSTLY
Ghost"ly, adv.

Defn: Spiritually; mystically. Chaucer.

GHOSTOLOGY
Ghost*ol"o*gy, n.

Defn: Ghost lore. [R.]
It seemed even more unaccountable than if it had been a thing of
ghostology and witchcraft. Hawthorne.

GHOUL
Ghoul, n. Etym: [Per. gh an imaginary sylvan demon, supposed to
devour men and animals: cf. Ar. gh, F. goule.]

Defn: An imaginary evil being among Eastern nations, which was
supposed to feed upon human bodies. [Written also ghole .] Moore.

GHOULISH
Ghoul"ish, a.

Defn: Characteristic of a ghoul; vampirelike; hyenalike.

GHYLL
Ghyll, n.

Defn: A ravine. See Gill a woody glen. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
Wordsworth.

GIALLOLINO
Gial`lo*li"no, n. Etym: [It., from giallo yellow, prob. fr. OHG.
gelo, G. gelb; akin to E. yellow.]

Defn: A term variously employed by early writers on art, though
commonly designating the yellow oxide of lead, or massicot. Fairholt.

GIAMBEUX
Giam"beux, n. pl. Etym: [See Jambeux.]

Defn: Greaves; armor for the legs. [Obs.] Spenser.

GIANT
Gi"ant, n. Etym: [OE. giant, geant, geaunt, OF. jaiant, geant, F.
géant, L. gigas, fr. Gr. gender, genesis. See Gender, and cf.
Gigantic.]

1. A man of extraordinari bulk and stature.
Giants of mighty bone and bold emprise. Milton.

2. A person of extraordinary strength or powers, bodily or
intellectual.

3. Any animal, plant, or thing, of extraordinary size or power.
Giant's Causeway, a vast collection of basaltic pillars, in the
county of Antrim on the northern coast of Ireland.

GIANT
Gi"ant, a.

Defn: Like a giant; extraordinary in size, strength, or power; as,
giant brothers; a giant son. Giant cell. (Anat.) See Myeloplax.
 -- Giant clam (Zoöl.), a bivalve shell of the genus Tridacna, esp.
T. gigas, which sometimes weighs 500 pounds. The shells are sometimes
used in churches to contain holy water.
 -- Giant heron (Zoöl.), a very large African heron (Ardeomega
goliath). It is the largest heron known.
 -- Giant kettle, a pothole of very large dimensions, as found in
Norway in connection with glaciers. See Pothole.
 -- Giant powder. See Nitroglycerin.
 -- Giant puffball (Bot.), a fungus (Lycoperdon giganteum), edible
when young, and when dried used for stanching wounds.
 -- Giant salamander (Zoöl.), a very large aquatic salamander
(Megalobatrachus maximus), found in Japan. It is the largest of
living Amphibia, becoming a yard long.
 -- Giant squid (Zoöl.), one of several species of very large squids,
belonging to Architeuthis and allied genera. Some are over forty feet
long.

GIANTESS
Gi"ant*ess, n.

Defn: A woman of extraordinary size.

GIANTIZE
Gi"ant*ize, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. géantiser.]

Defn: To play the giant. [R.] Sherwood.

GIANTLY
Gi"ant*ly, a.

Defn: Appropriate to a giant. [Obs.] Usher.

GIANTRY
Gi"ant*ry, n.

Defn: The race of giants. [R.] Cotgrave.

GIANTSHIP
Gi"ant*ship, n.

Defn: The state, personality, or character, of a giant; -- a
compellation for a giant.
His giantship is gone somewhat crestfallen. Milton.

GIAOUR
Giaour, n. Etym: [Turk. giaur an infidel, Per. gawr, another form of
ghebr fire worshiper. Cf. Kaffir, Gheber .]

Defn: An infidel; -- a term applied by Turks to disbelievers in the
Mohammedan religion, especially Christrians. Byron.

GIB
Gib, n. Etym: [Abbreviated fr. Gilbert, the name of the cat in the
old story of "Reynard the Fox". in the "Romaunt of the Rose", etc.]

Defn: A male cat; a tomcat. [Obs.]

GIB
Gib, v. i.

Defn: To act like a cat. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

GIB
Gib, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A piece or slip of metal or wood, notched or otherwise, in a
machine or structure, to hold other parts in place or bind them
together, or to afford a bearing surface; -- usually held or adjusted
by means of a wedge, key, or screw. Gib and key, or Gib and cotter
(Steam Engine), the fixed wedge or gib, and the driving wedge,key, or
cotter, used for tightening the strap which holds the brasses at the
end of a connecting rod.

GIB
Gib, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gibbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gibbing.]

Defn: To secure or fasten with a gib, or gibs; to provide with a gib,
or gibs. Gibbed lathe, an engine lathe in which the tool carriage is
held down to the bed by a gib instead of by a weight.

GIB
Gib, v. i.

Defn: To balk. See Jib, v. i. Youatt.

GIBARO
Gi"ba*ro, n.; pl. Gibaros (#). [Amer. Sp. jíbaro wild.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: The offspring of a Spaniard and an Indian; a Spanish-Indian
mestizo. [Sp. Amer.]

GIBBARTAS
Gib*bar"tas, n. Etym: [Cf. Ar. jebbar giant; or L. gibber humpbacked:
cf. F. gibbar.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several finback whales of the North Atlantic; -- called
also Jupiter whale. [Written also jubartas, gubertas, dubertus.]

GIBBER
Gib"ber, n. Etym: [From Gib to balk.]

Defn: A balky horse. Youatt.

GIBBER
Gib"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gibbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Gibbering.]
Etym: [Akin to jabber, and gabble.]

Defn: To speak rapidly and inarticulately. Shak.

GIBBERISH
Gib"ber*ish, n. Etym: [From Gibber, v. i.]

Defn: Rapid and inarticulate talk; unintelligible language; unmeaning
words; jargon.
He, like a gypsy, oftentimes would go; All kinds of gibberish he had
learnt to known. Drayton.
Such gibberish as children may be heard amusing themselves with.
Hawthorne.

GIBBERISH
Gib"ber*ish, a.

Defn: Unmeaning; as, gibberish language.

GIBBET
Gib"bet, n. Etym: [OE. gibet, F. gibet, in OF. also club, fr. LL.
gibetum;; cf. OF. gibe sort of sickle or hook, It. giubbetto gibbet,
and giubbetta, dim. of giubba mane, also, an under waistcoat,
doublet, Prov. It. gibba (cf. Jupon); so that it perhaps originally
signified a halter, a rope round the neck of malefactors; or it is,
perhaps, derived fr. L. gibbus hunched, humped, E. gibbous; or cf. E.
jib a sail.]

1. A kind of gallows; an upright post with an arm projecting from the
top, on which, formerly, malefactors were hanged in chains, and their
bodies allowed to remain asa warning.

2. The projecting arm of a crane, from which the load is suspended;
the jib.

GIBBET
Gib"bet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gibbeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Gibbeting.]

1. To hang and expose on a gibbet.

2. To expose to infamy; to blacken.
I'll gibbet up his name. Oldham.

GIBBIER
Gib"bier, n. Etym: [F. gibier.]

Defn: Wild fowl; game. [Obs.] Addison.

GIBBON
Gib"bon, n. Etym: [Cf. F. gibbon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any arboreal ape of the genus Hylobates, of which many species
and varieties inhabit the East Indies and Southern Asia. They are
tailless and without cheek pouches, and have very long arms, adapted
for climbing.

Note: The white-handed gibbon (Hylobates lar), the crowned (H.
pilatus), the wou-wou or singing gibbon (H. agilis), the siamang, and
the hoolock. are the most common species.

GIB BOOM
Gib" boom`.

Defn: See Jib boom.

GIBBOSE
Gib*bose", a. Etym: [L. gibbosus, fr. gibbus, gibba, hunch, hump. Cf.
Gibbous.]

Defn: Humped; protuberant; -- said of a surface which presents one or
more large elevations. Brande & C.

GIBBOSTITY
Gib*bost"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. gibbosité.]

Defn: The state of being gibbous or gibbose; gibbousness.

GIBBOUS
Gib"bous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. gibbeux. See Gibbose.]

1. Swelling by a regular curve or surface; protuberant; convex; as,
the moon is gibbous between the half-moon and the full moon.
The bones will rise, and make a gibbous member. Wiseman.

2. Hunched; hump-backed. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
 -- Gib"bous*ly, adv.
 -- Gib"bous*ness, n.

GIBBSITE
Gibbs"ite, n. Etym: [Named after George Gibbs.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrate of alumina.

GIB-CAT
Gib"-cat`, n.

Defn: A male cat, esp. an old one. See lst Gib. n. [Obs.] Shak.

GIBE
Gibe, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gibed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gibing.] Etym: [Cf.
Prov. F. giber, equiv. to F. jouer to play, Icel. geipa to talk
nonsense, E. jabber.]

Defn: To cast reproaches and sneering expressions; to rail; to utter
taunting, sarcastic words; to flout; to fleer; to scoff.
Fleer and gibe, and laugh and flout. Swift.

GIBE
Gibe, v. i.

Defn: To reproach with contemptuous words; to deride; to scoff at; to
mock.
Draw the beasts as I describe them, From their features, while I gibe
them. Swift.

GIBE
Gibe, n.

Defn: An expression of sarcastic scorn; a sarcastic jest; a scoff; a
taunt; a sneer.
Mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns. Shak.
With solemn gibe did Eustace banter me. Tennyson.

GIBEL
Gib"el, n. Etym: [G. gibel, giebel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of carp (Cyprinus gibelio); -- called also Prussian
carp.

GIBER
Gib"er n.

Defn: One who utters gibes. B. Jonson.

GIBFISH
Gib"fish`, n.

Defn: The male of the salmon. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

GIBINGLY
Gib"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a gibing manner; scornfully.

GIBLET
Gib"let, a.

Defn: Made of giblets; as, a giblet pie.

GIBLETS
Gib"lets, n. pl. Etym: [OE. gibelet, OF. gibelet game: cf. F.
gibelotte stewed rabbit. Cf. Gibbier.]

Defn: The inmeats, or edible viscera (heart, gizzard, liver, etc.),
of poultry.

GIBRALTAR
Gi*bral"tar, n.

1. A strongly fortified town on the south coast of Spain, held by the
British since 1704; hence, an impregnable stronghold.

2.  A kind of candy sweetmeat, or a piece of it; -- called, in full,
Gibraltar rock.

GIBSTAFF
Gib"staff`, n. Etym: [Prov. E. gib a hooked stick + E. staff.]

1. A staff to guage water, or to push a boat.

2. A staff formerly used in fighting beasts on the stage. [Obs.]
Bailey.

GID
Gid, n. Etym: [Cf. Giddy, a.]

Defn: A disease of sheep, characterized by vertigo; the staggers. It
is caused by the presence of the CC.

GIDDILY
Gid"di*ly, adv.

Defn: In a giddy manner.

GIDDINESS
Gid"di*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being giddy.

GIDDY
Gid"dy, a. [Compar. Giddier; superl. Giddiest.] Etym: [OE. gidi mad,
silly, AS. gidig, of unknown origin, cf. Norw. gidda to shake,
tremble.]

1. Having in the head a sensation of whirling or reeling about;
having lost the power of preserving the balance of the body, and
therefore wavering and inclined to fall; lightheaded; dizzy.
By giddy head and staggering legs betrayed. Tate.

2. Promoting or inducing giddiness; as, a giddy height; a giddy
precipice. Prior.
Upon the giddy footing of the hatches. Shak.

3. Bewildering on account of rapid turning; running round with
celerity; gyratory; whirling.
The giddy motion of the whirling mill. Pope.

4. Characterized by inconstancy; unstable; changeable; fickle; wild;
thoughtless; heedless. "Giddy, foolish hours." Rowe. "Giddy chance."
Dryden.
Young heads are giddy and young hearts are warm. Cowper.

GIDDY
Gid"dy, v. i.

Defn: To reel; to whirl. Chapman.

GIDDY
Gid"dy, v. t.

Defn: To make dizzy or unsteady. [Obs.]

GIDDY-HEAD
Gid"dy-head`, n.

Defn: A person without thought fulness, prudence, or judgment.
[Colloq.] Burton.

GIDDY-HEADED
Gid"dy-head`ed, a.

Defn: Thoughtless; unsteady.

GIDDY-PACED
Gid"dy-paced`, a.

Defn: Moving irregularly; flighty; fickle. [R.] Shak.

GIE
Gie, v. t.

Defn: To guide. See Gye . [Obs.] Chaucer.

GIE
Gie, v. t.

Defn: To give. [Scot.] Burns.

GIER-EAGLE
Gier"-ea`gle, n. Etym: [Cf. D. gier vulture, G. gier, and E.
gyrfalcon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird referred to in the Bible (Lev. xi. 18and Deut. xiv. 17)
as unclean, probably the Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus).

GIER-FALCON
Gier"-fal`con, n. Etym: [Cf. Gier-eagle, Gyrfalcon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gyrfalcon.

GIESECKITE
Gie"seck*ite, n. Etym: [Named after Karl Giesecke.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in greenish gray six-sided prisms, having a
greasy luster. It is probably a pseudomorph after elæolite.

GIF
Gif, conj. Etym: [AS. See If.]

Defn: If. [Obs.]

Note: Gif is the old form of if, and frequently occurs in the earlier
English writers. See If.

GIFFARD INJECTOR
Gif"fard in*ject"or. (Mach.)

Defn: See under Injector.

GIFFGAFF
Giff"gaff, n. Etym: [Reduplicated fr. give.]

Defn: Mutial accommodation; mutual giving. [Scot.]

GIFFY
Gif"fy, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Jiffy.

GIFT
Gift, n. Etym: [OE. gift, yift, yeft, AS. gift, fr. gifan to give;
akin to D. & G. gift, Icel. gift, gipt, Goth. gifts (in comp.). See
Give, v. t.]

1. Anything given; anything voluntarily transferred by one person to
another without compensation; a present; an offering.
Shall I receive by gift, what of my own, . . . I can command Milton.

2. The act, right, or power of giving or bestowing; as, the office is
in the gift of the President.

3. A bribe; anything given to corrupt.
Neither take a gift, for a gift doth blind the eyes of the wise.
Deut. xvi. 19.

4. Some quality or endowment given to man by God; a preëminent and
special talent or aptitude; power; faculty; as, the gift of wit; a
gift for speaking.

5. (Law)

Defn: A voluntary transfer of real or personal property, without any
consideration. It can be perfected only by deed, or in case of
personal property, by an actual delivery of possession. Bouvier.
Burrill. Gift rope (Naut), a rope extended to a boat for towing it; a
guest rope.

Syn.
 -- Present; donation; grant; largess; benefaction; boon; bounty;
gratuity; endowment; talent; faculty.
 -- Gift, Present, Donation. These words, as here compared, denote
something gratuitously imparted to another out of one's property. A
gift is something given whether by a superior or an inferior, and is
usually designed for the relief or benefit of him who receives it. A
present is ordinarly from an equal or inferior, and is always
intended as a compliment or expression of kindness. Donation is a
word of more dignity, denoting, properly, a gift of considerable
value, and ordinarly a gift made either to some public institution,
or to an individual on account of his services to the public; as, a
donation to a hospital, a charitable society, or a minister.

GIFT
Gift, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gifted; p. pr. & vb. n. Gifting.]

Defn: To endow with some power or faculty.
He was gifted . . . with philosophical sagacity. I. Taylor.

GIFTEDNESS
Gift"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being gifted. Echard.

GIG
Gig, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. gigue. See Jig, n.]

Defn: A fiddle. [Obs.]

GIG
Gig, v. t. Etym: [Prob. fr. L. gignere to beget.]

Defn: To engender. [Obs.] Dryden.

GIG
Gig, n.

Defn: A kind of spear or harpoon. See Fishgig.

GIG
Gig, v. t.

Defn: To fish with a gig.

GIG
Gig, n. Etym: [OE. gigge. Cf. Giglot.]

Defn: A playful or wanton girl; a giglot.

GIG
Gig, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. g fiddle, MHG. g, G. geige, Icel. geiga to
take a wrong direction, rove at random, and E. jig.]

1. A top or whirligig; any little thing that is whirled round in
play.
Thou disputest like an infant; go, whip thy gig. Shak.

2. A light carriage, with one pair of wheels, drawn by one horse; a
kind of chaise.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A long, light rowboat, generally clinkerbuilt, and designed to
be fast; a boat appropriated to the use of the commanding officer;
as, the captain's gig.

4. (Mach.)

Defn: A rotatory cylinder, covered with wire teeth or teasels, for
teaseling woolen cloth. Gig machine, Gigging machine, Gig mill, or
Napping machine. See Gig, 4.
 -- Gig saw. See Jig saw.

GIGANTEAN
Gi`gan*te"an, a. Etym: [L. giganteus, fr. gigas, antis. See Giant.]

Defn: Like a giant; mighty; gigantic. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

GIGANTESQUE
Gi`gan*tesque", a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Befitting a giant; bombastic; magniloquent.
The sort of mock-heroic gigantesque With which we bantered little
Lilia first. Tennyson.

GIGANTIC
Gi*gan"tic, a. Etym: [L. gigas, -antis, giant. See Giant.]

1. Of extraordinary size; like a giant.

2. Such as a giant might use, make, or cause; immense; tremendous;
extraordinarly; as, gigantic deeds; gigantic wickedness. Milton.
When descends on the Atlantic The gigantic Strom wind of the equinox.
Longfellow.

GIGANTICAL
Gi*gan"tic*al, a.

Defn: Bulky, big. [Obs.] Burton.
 -- Gi*gan"tic*al*ly, adv.

GIGANTICIDE
Gi*gan"ti*cide, n. Etym: [. gigas, -antis, giant + caedere to kill.]

Defn: The act of killing, or one who kills, a giant. Hallam.

GIGANTINE
Gi*gan"tine, a.

Defn: Gigantic. [Obs.] Bullokar.

GIGANTOLOGY
Gi`gan*tol"og*y, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. gigantologie.]

Defn: An account or description of giants.

GIGANTOMACHY
Gi`gan*tom"a*chy, n. Etym: [L. gigantoma, fr. Gr. gigantomachie.]

Defn: A war of giants; especially, the fabulous war of the giants
against heaven.

GIGE; GUIGE
Gige, Guige, n. Etym: [OF. guide, guiche.] (Anc. Armor)

Defn: The leather strap by which the shield of a knight was slung
across the shoulder, or across the neck and shoulder. Meyrick
(Ancient Armor).

GIGERIUM
Gi*ge"ri*um, n.; pl. Gigeria. Etym: [NL., fr. L. gigeria, pl., the
cooked entrails of poultry.] (Anat.)

Defn: The muscular stomach, or gizzard, of birds.

GIGGET
Gig"get, n.

Defn: Same as Gigot.
Cut the slaves to giggets. Beau. & Fl.

GIGGLE
Gig"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Giggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Giggling.]
Etym: [Akin to gaggle: cf. OD. ghichelen, G. kichern.]

Defn: To laugh with short catches of the breath or voice; to laugh in
a light, affected, or silly manner; to titter with childish levity.
Giggling and laughing with all their might At the piteous hap of the
fairy wight. J. R. Drake.

GIGGLE
Gig"gle, n.

Defn: A kind of laugh, with short catches of the voice or breath; a
light, silly laugh.

GIGGLER
Gig"gler, n.

Defn: One who giggles or titters.

GIGGLY
Gig"gly, a.

Defn: Prone to giggling. Carlyle.

GIGGOT
Gig"got, n.

Defn: See Gigot. [Obs.] Chapman.

GIGGYNG
Gig"gyng, n. Etym: [See Gige.]

Defn: The act of fastending the gige or leather strap to the shield.
[Obs.] "Gigging of shields." Chaucer.

GIGLOT; GIGLET
Gig"lot, Gig"let, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. gikkr a pert, rude person, Dan.
giek a fool, silly man, AS. gagol, gægl, lascivious, wanton, MHG.
gogel wanton, giege fool, and E. gig a wanton person.]

Defn: A wanton; a lascivious or light, giddy girl. [Obs.]
The giglet is willful, and is running upon her fate. Sir W. Scott.

GIGLOT
Gig"lot, a.

Defn: Giddi; light; inconstant; wanton. [Obs.] "O giglot fortune!"
Shak.

GIGOT; GIGGOT
Gig"ot, Gig"got (, n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. gigue fiddle; -- on account
of the resemblance in shape. See Jig, n.]

1. A leg of mutton.

2. A small piece of flesh; a slice. [Obs.]
The rest in giggots cut, they spit. Chapman.

GIGUE
Gigue (zheg), n. [F.]

Defn: A piece of lively dance music, in two strains which are
repeated; also, the dance.

GILA MONSTER
Gi"la mon"ster. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large tuberculated lizard (Heloderma suspectum) native of the
dry plains of Arizona, New Mexico, etc. It is the only lizard known
to have venomous teeth.

GILD
Gild, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gilded or Gilt (p. pr. & vb. n. Gilding.]
Etym: [AS. gyldan, from gold gold. sq. root234. See Gold.]

1. To overlay with a thin covering of gold; to cover with a golden
color; to cause to look like gold. "Gilded chariots." Pope.
No more the rising sun shall gild the morn. Pope.

2. To make attractive; to adorn; to brighten.
Let oft good humor, mild and gay, Gild the calm evening of your day.
Trumbull.

3. To give a fair but deceptive outward appearance to; to embellish;
as, to gild a lie. Shak.

4. To make red with drinking. [Obs.]
This grand liquior that hath gilded them. Shak.

GILDALE
Gild"ale`, n. Etym: [AS. gilgan to pay + E. ale. See Yield, v. t.,
and Ale.]

Defn: A drinking bout in which every one pays an equal share. [Obs.]

GILDEN
Gild"en, a.

Defn: Gilded. Holland.

GILDER
Gild"er, n.

Defn: One who gilds; one whose occupation is to overlay with gold.

GILDER
Gil"der, n.

Defn: A Dutch coin. See Guilder.

GILDING
Gild"ing, n.

1. The art or practice of overlaying or covering with gold leaf;
also, a thin coating or wash of gold, or of that which resembles
gold.

2. Gold in leaf, powder, or liquid, for application to any surface.

3. Any superficial coating or appearance, as opposed to what is solid
and genuine. Gilding metal, a tough kind of sheet brass from which
cartridge shells are made.

GILE
Gile, n. Etym: [See Guile.]

Defn: Guile. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GILL
Gill, n. Etym: [Dan. giælle, gelle; akin to Sw. gäl, Icel. gjölnar
gills; cf. AS. geagl, geahl, jaw.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: An organ for aquatic respiration; a branchia.
Fishes perform respiration under water by the gills. Ray.

Note: Gills are usually lamellar or filamentous appendages, through
which the blood circulates, and in which it is exposed to the action
of the air contained in the water. In vertebrates they are appendages
of the visceral arches on either side of the neck. In invertebrates
they occupy various situations.

2. pl. (Bot.)

Defn: The radiating, gill-shaped plates forming the under surface of
a mushroom.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The fleshy flap that hangs below the beak of a fowl; a wattle.

4. The flesh under or about the chin. Swift.

5. (Spinning)

Defn: One of the combs of closely ranged steel pins which divide the
ribbons of flax fiber or wool into fewer parallel filaments. Etym:
[Prob. so called from F. aiguilles, needles. Ure.] Gill arches, Gill
bars. (Anat.) Same as Branchial arches.
 -- Gill clefts. (Anat.) Same as Branchial clefts. See under
Branchial.
 -- Gill cover, Gill lid. See Operculum.
 -- Gill frame, or Gill head (Flax Manuf.), a spreader; a machine for
subjecting flax to the action of gills. Knight.
 -- Gill net, a flat net so suspended in the water that its meshes
allow the heads of fish to pass, but catch in the gills when they
seek to extricate themselves.
 -- Gill opening, or Gill slit (Anat.), an opening behind and below
the head of most fishes, and some amphibians, by which the water from
the gills is discharged. In most fishes there is a single opening on
each side, but in the sharks and rays there are five, or more, on
each side.
 -- Gill rakes, or Gill rakers (Anat.), horny filaments, or
progresses, on the inside of the branchial arches of fishes, which
help to prevent solid substances from being carried into gill
cavities.

GILL
Gill, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A two-wheeled frame for transporting timber. [Prov. Eng.]

GILL
Gill, n.

Defn: A leech. [Also gell.] [Scot.] Jameison.

GILL
Gill, n. Etym: [Icel. gil.]

Defn: A woody glen; a narrow valley containing a stream. [Prov. Eng.
& Scot.]

GILL
Gill, n. Etym: [OF. gille, gelle, a sort of measure for wine, LL.
gillo, gello., Cf. Gallon.]

Defn: A measure of capacity, containing one fourth of a pint.

GILL
Gill, n. Etym: [Abbrev. from Gillian.]

1. A young woman; a sweetheart; a flirting or wanton girl. "Each Jack
with his Gill." B. Jonson.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma); -- called also gill over the
ground, and other like names.

3. Malt liquor medicated with ground ivy. Gill ale. (a) Ale flavored
with ground ivy. (b) (Bot.) Alehoof.

GILL-FLIRT
Gill"-flirt`, n.

Defn: A thoughtless, giddy girl; a flirt-gill. Sir W. Scott.

GILLHOUSE
Gill"house`, n.

Defn: A shop where gill is sold.
Thee shall each alehouse, thee each gillhouse mourn. Pope.

GILLIAN
Gil"li*an, n. Etym: [OE. Gillian, a woman's name, for Julian,
Juliana. Cf. Gill a girl.]

Defn: A girl; esp., a wanton; a gill. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

GILLIE; GILLY
Gil"lie Gil"ly, n. Etym: [Gael. gille, giolla, boy, lad.]

Defn: A boy or young man; a manservant; a male attendant, in the
Scottish Highlands. Sir W. Scott.

GILLYFLOWER
Gil"ly*flow`er, n. Etym: [OE. gilofre, gilofer, clove, OF. girofre,
girofle, F. girofle: cf. F. giroflée gillyflower, fr. girofle, Gr.
foliage. Cf. Caryophyllus, July-flower.] (Bot.)

1. A name given by old writers to the clove pink (Dianthus
Caryophyllus) but now to the common stock (Matthiola incana), a
cruciferous plant with showy and fragrant blossoms, usually purplish,
but often pink or white.

2. A kind of apple, of a roundish conical shape, purplish red color,
and having a large core. [Written also gilliflower.] Clove
gillflower, the clove pink.
 -- Marsh gillyflower, the ragged robin (Lychnis Flos-cuculi).
 -- Queen's, or Winter, gillyflower, damewort.
 -- Sea gillyflower, the thrift (Armeria vulgaris).
 -- Wall gillyflower, the wallflower (Cheiranthus Cheiri).
 -- Water gillyflower, the water violet.

GILOUR
Gil"our, n. Etym: [OF.]

Defn: A guiler; deceiver. [Obs.]

GILSE
Gilse, n. Etym: [W. gleisiad, fr. glas blue.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Grilse.

GILT
Gilt, n. Etym: [See Geld, v. t.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A female pig, when young.

GILT
Gilt,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Gild.

GILT
Gilt, p. p. & a.

Defn: Gilded; covered with gold; of the color of gold; golden yellow.
"Gilt hair" Chaucer.

GILT
Gilt, n.

1. Gold, or that which resembles gold, laid on the surface of a
thing; gilding. Shak.

2. Money. [Obs.] "The gilt of France." Shak.

GILT-EDGE; GILT-EDGED
Gilt"-edge`, Gilt"-edged`, a.

1. Having a gilt edge; as, gilt-edged paper.

2. Of the best quality; -- said of negotiable paper, etc. [Slang, U.
S.]

GILTHEAD
Gilt"head`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine fish. The name is applied to two species:
(a) The Pagrus, or Chrysophrys, auratus, a valuable food fish common
in the Mediterranean (so named from its golden-colored head); --
called also giltpoll.
(b) The Crenilabrus melops, of the British coasts; -- called also
golden maid, conner, sea partridge.

GILTIF
Gilt"if, a. Etym: [For gilti, by confusion with -if, -ive, in French
forms. See Guilty.]

Defn: Guilty. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GILTTAIL
Gilt"tail`, n.

Defn: A yellow-tailed worm or larva.

GIM
Gim, a. Etym: [Cf. Gimp, a.]

Defn: Neat; spruce. [Prov.]

GIMBAL; GIMBALS
Gim"bal, or; Gim"bals (, n. Etym: [See Gimmal, n.]

Defn: A contrivance for permitting a body to incline freely in all
directions, or for suspending anything, as a barometer, ship's
compass, chronometer, etc., so that it will remain plumb, or level,
when its support is tipped, as by the rolling of a ship. It consists
of a ring in which the body can turn on an axis through a diameter of
the ring, while the ring itself is so pivoted to its support that it
can turn about a diameter at right angles to the first. Gimbal joint
(Mach.), a universal joint embodying the principle of the gimbal.
 -- Gimbal ring, a single gimbal, as that by which the cockeye of the
upper millstone is supported on the spindle.

GIMBLET
Gim"blet, n. & v.

Defn: See Gimlet.

GIMCRACK
Gim"crack`, n. Etym: [OE., a spruce and pert pretender, also, a
spruce girl, prob. fr. gim + crack lad, boaster.]

Defn: A trivial mechanism; a device; a toy; a pretty thing.
Arbuthnot.

GIMLET
Gim"let, n. [Also written and pronounced gimbled (] Etym: [OF.
guimbelet, guibelet, F. gibelet, prob. fr. OD. wimpel, weme, a bore,
wemelen to bore, to wimble. See Wimble, n.]

Defn: A small tool for boring holes. It has a leading screw, a
grooved body, and a cross handle. Gimlet eye, a squint-eye. [Colloq.]
Wright.

GIMLET
Gim"let, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gimleted; p. pr. & vb. n. Gimleting.]

1. To pierce or make with a gimlet.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To turn round (an anchor) by the stock, with a motion like
turning a gimlet.

GIMMAL
Gim"mal, n. Etym: [Prob. the same word as gemel. See Gemel, and cf.
Gimbal.]

1. Joined work whose parts move within each other; a pair or series
of interlocked rings.

2. A quaint piece of machinery; a gimmer. [Obs.]

GIMMAL
Gim"mal, a.

Defn: Made or consisting of interlocked rings, gimmal mail.
In their pale dull mouths the gimmal bit Lies foul with chewed grass.
Shak.
Gimmal joint. See Gimbal joint, under Gimbal.

GIMMER; GIMMOR
Gim"mer, Gim"mor (, n. Etym: [Cf. Gimmal, n.]

Defn: A piece of mechanism; mechanical device or contrivance; a
gimcrack. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. Shak.

GIMP
Gimp, a. Etym: [W. gwymp fair, neat, comely.]

Defn: Smart; spruce; trim; nice. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

GIMP
Gimp, n. Etym: [OF. guimpe, guimple, a nun's wimple, F. guimpe, OHG.
wimpal a veil G. wimpel pennon, pendant. See Wimple, n.]

Defn: A narrow ornamental fabric of silk, woolen, or cotton, often
with a metallic wire, or sometimes a coarse cord, running through it;
-- used as trimming for dresses, furniture, etc.
Gimp nail, an upholsterer's small nail.

GIMP
Gimp, v. t.

Defn: To notch; to indent; to jag.

GIN
Gin, prep. Etym: [AS. geán. See Again.]

Defn: Against; near by; towards; as, gin night. [Scot.] A. Ross
(1778).

GIN
Gin, conj. Etym: [See Gin, prep.]

Defn: If. [Scotch] Jamieson.

GIN
Gin, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gan, Gon (Gun (p. pr. & vb. n. Ginning.]
Etym: [OE. ginnen, AS. ginnan (in comp.), prob. orig., to open, cut
open, cf. OHG. inginnan to begin, open, cut open, and prob. akin to
AS. ginan to yawn, and E. yawn. Yawn, v. i., and cf. Begin.]

Defn: To begin; -- often followed by an infinitive without to; as,
gan tell. See Gan. [Obs. or Archaic] "He gan to pray." Chaucer.

GIN
Gin, n. Etym: [Contr. from Geneva. See 2d Geneva.]

Defn: A strong alcoholic liquor, distilled from rye and barley, and
flavored with juniper berries; -- also called Hollands and Holland
gin, because originally, and still very extensively, manufactured in
Holland. Common gin is usually flavored with turpentine.

GIN
Gin, n. Etym: [A contraction of engine.]

1. Contrivance; artifice; a trap; a snare. Chaucer. Spenser.

2.
(a) A machine for raising or moving heavy weights, consisting of a
tripod formed of poles united at the top, with a windlass, pulleys,
ropes, etc.
(b) (Mining) A hoisting drum, usually vertical; a whim.

3. A machine for separating the seeds from cotton; a cotton gin.

Note: The name is also given to an instrument of torture worked with
screws, and to a pump moved by rotary sails. Gin block, a simple form
of tackle block, having one wheel, over which a rope runs; -- called
also whip gin, rubbish pulley, and monkey wheel.
 -- Gin power, a form of horse power for driving a cotton gin.
 -- Gin race, or Gin ring, the path of the horse when putting a gin
in motion. Halliwell.
 -- Gin saw, a saw used in a cotton gin for drawing the fibers
through the grid, leaving the seed in the hopper.
 -- Gin wheel. (a) In a cotton gin, a wheel for drawing the fiber
through the grid; a brush wheel to clean away the lint. (b) (Mining)
the drum of a whim.

GIN
Gin, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ginned; p. pr. & vb. n. Ginning.]

1. To catch in a trap. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

2. To clear of seeds by a machine; as, to gin cotton.

GING
Ging, n.

Defn: Same as Gang, n., 2. [Obs.]
There is a knot, a ging, a pack, a conspiracy against me. Shak.

GINGAL
Gin*gal", n.

Defn: See Jingal.

GINGER
Gin"ger, n. Etym: [OE. ginger, gingever, gingivere, OF. gengibre,
gingimbre, F. gingembre, L. zingiber, zingiberi, fr. Gr. zenjebil,
fr. Skr. , prop., hornshaped; horn + vëra body.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Zingiber, of the East and West Indies. The
species most known is Z. officinale.

2. The hot and spicy rootstock of Zingiber officinale, which is much
used in cookery and in medicine. Ginger beer or ale, a mild beer
impregnated with ginger.
 -- Ginger cordial, a liquor made from ginger, raisins, lemon rind,
and water, and sometimes whisky or brandy.
 -- Ginger pop. See Ginger beer (above).
 -- Ginger wine, wine impregnated with ginger.
 -- Wild ginger (Bot.), an American herb (Asarum Canadense) with two
reniform leaves and a long, cordlike rootstock which has a strong
taste of ginger.

GINGERBREAD
Gin"ger*bread`, n.

Defn: A kind of plain sweet cake seasoned with ginger, and sometimes
made in fanciful shapes. "Gingerbread that was full fine." Chaucer.
Gingerbread tree (Bot.), the doom palm; -- so called from the
resemblance of its fruit to gingerbread. See Doom Palm.
 -- Gingerbread work, ornamentation, in architecture or decoration,
of a fantastic, trivial, or tawdry character.

GINGERLY
Gin"ger*ly, adv. Etym: [Prov. E. ginger brittle, tender; cf. dial.
Sw. gingla, gängla, to go gently, totter, akin to E. gang.]

Defn: Cautiously; timidly; fastidiously; daintily.
What is't that you took up so gingerly Shak.

GINGERNESS
Gin"ger*ness, n.

Defn: Cautiousness; tenderness.

GINGHAM
Ging"ham, n. Etym: [F. guingan; cf. Jav. ginggang; or perh. fr.
Guingamp, in France.]

Defn: A kind of cotton or linen cloth, usually in stripes or checks,
the yarn of which is dyed before it is woven; -- distinguished from
printed cotton or prints.

GINGING
Ging"ing, n. (Mining)

Defn: The lining of a mine shaft with stones or bricks to prevent
caving.

GINGIVAL
Gin"gi*val, a. Etym: [L. gingiva the gum.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the gums. Holder.

GINGLE
Gin"gle, n. & v. [Obs.]

Defn: See Jingle.

GINGLYFORM
Gin"gly*form, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Ginglymoid.

GINGLYMODI
Gin`gly*mo"di, n. Etym: [NL.; cf. Gr. Ginglymoid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of ganoid fishes, including the modern gar pikes and
many allied fossil forms. They have rhombic, ganoid scales, a
heterocercal tail, paired fins without an axis, fulcra on the fins,
and a bony skeleton, with the vertebræ convex in front and concave
behind, forming a ball and socket joint. See Ganoidel.

GINGLYMOID; GINGLYMOIDAL
Gin"gly*moid, Gin`gly*moid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. ginglymoide,
ginglymoïdal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a ginglymus, or hinge joint;
ginglyform.

GINGLYMUS
Gin"gly*mus, n.; pl. Ginglymi. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A hinge joint; an articulation, admitting of flexion and
extension, or motion in two directions only, as the elbow and the
ankle.

GINHOUSE
Gin"house`, n.

Defn: A building where cotton is ginned.

GINKGO
Gink"go, n.; pl. Ginkgoes. Etym: [Chin., silver fruit.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large ornamental tree (Ginkgo biloba) from China and Japan,
belonging to the Yew suborder of Coniferæ. Its leaves are so like
those of some maidenhair ferns, that it is also called the maidenhair
tree.

GINNEE
Gin"nee, n.; pl. Ginn (.

Defn: See Jinnee.

GINNET
Gin"net, n.

Defn: See Genet, a horse.

GINNING
Gin"ning, n. Etym: [See Gin, v. i.]

Defn: Beginning. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GINNY-CARRIAGE
Gin"ny-car`riage (, n.

Defn: A small, strong carriage for conveying materials on a railroad.
[Eng.]

GINSENG
Gin"seng, n. Etym: [Chinese.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Aralia, the root of which is highly valued
as a medicine among the Chinese. The Chinese plant (Aralia Schinseng)
has become so rare that the American (A. quinquefolia) has largely
taken its place, and its root is now an article of export from
America to China. The root, when dry, is of a yellowish white color,
with a sweetness in the taste somewhat resembling that of licorice,
combined with a slight aromatic bitterness.

GINSHOP
Gin"shop`, n.

Defn: A shop or barroom where gin is sold as a beverage. [Colloq.]

GIP
Gip, v. t.

Defn: To take out the entrails of (herrings).

GIP
Gip, n.

Defn: A servant. See Gyp. Sir W. Scott.

GIPOUN
Gi*poun", n. Etym: [See Jupon.]

Defn: A short cassock. [Written also gepoun, gypoun, jupon, juppon.]
[Obs.]

GIPSER; GIPSIRE
Gip"ser, Gip"sire, n. Etym: [F. gibecière a game pouch or game
pocket. Cf. Gibbier.]

Defn: A kind of pouch formerly worn at the girdle. Ld. Lytton.
A gipser all of silk, Hung at his girdle, white as morné milk.
Chaucer.

GIPSY
Gip"sy, n. a..

Defn: See Gypsy.

GIPSYISM
Gip"sy*ism, n.

Defn: See Gypsyism.

GIRAFFE
Gi*raffe", n. Etym: [F. girafe, Sp. girafa, from Ar. zurafa, zarafa.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An African ruminant (Camelopardalis giraffa) related to the
deers and antelopes, but placed in a family by itself; the
camelopard. It is the tallest of animals, being sometimes twenty feet
from the hoofs to the top of the head. Its neck is very long, and its
fore legs are much longer than its hind legs.

GIRANDOLE
Gir"an*dole, n. Etym: [F. See Gyrate.]

1. An ornamental branched candlestick.

2. A flower stand, fountain, or the like, of branching form.

3. (Pyrotechny)

Defn: A kind of revolving firework.

4. (Fort.)

Defn: A series of chambers in defensive mines. Farrow.

GIRASOLE; GIRASOL
Gir"a*sole Gir"a*sol, n. Etym: [It. girasole, or F. girasol, fr. L.
gyrare to turn around + sol sun.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: See Heliotrope. [Obs.]

2. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of opal which is usually milk white, bluish white, or
sky blue; but in a bright light it reflects a reddish color.

GIRD
Gird, n. Etym: [See Yard a measure.]

1. A stroke with a rod or switch; a severe spasm; a twinge; a pang.
Conscience . . . is freed from many fearful girds and twinges which
the atheist feels. Tillotson.

2. A cut; a sarcastic remark; a gibe; a sneer.
I thank thee for that gird, good Tranio. Shak.

GIRD
Gird, v. t. Etym: [See Gird, n., and cf. Girde, v.]

1. To strike; to smite. [Obs.]
To slay him and to girden off his head. Chaucer.

2. To sneer at; to mock; to gibe.
Being moved, he will not spare to gird the gods. Shak.

GIRD
Gird, v. i.

Defn: To gibe; to sneer; to break a scornful jest; to utter severe
sarcasms.
Men of all sorts take a pride to gird at me. Shak.

GIRD
Gird, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Girt or Girded; p. pr. & vb. n. Girding.]
Etym: [OE. girden, gurden, AS. gyrdan; akin to OS. gurdian, D.
gorden, OHG. gurten, G. gürten, Icel. gyr, Sw. gjorda, Dan. giorde,
Goth. bigaírdan to begird, and prob. to E. yard an inclosure. Cf.
Girth, n. & v., Girt, v. t.]

1. To encircle or bind with any flexible band.

2. To make fast, as clothing, by binding with a cord, girdle,
bandage, etc.

3. To surround; to encircle, or encompass.
That Nyseian isle, Girt with the River Triton. Milton.

4. To clothe; to swathe; to invest.
I girded thee about with fine linen. Ezek. xvi. 10.
The Son . . . appeared Girt with omnipotence. Milton.

5. To prepare; to make ready; to equip; as, to gird one's self for a
contest.
Thou hast girded me with strength. Ps. xviii. 39.
To gird on, to put on; to fasten around or to one securely, like a
girdle; as, to gird on armor or a sword.
Let not him that girdeth on his harness boast himself as he that
putteth it off. 1 Kings xx. 11.
-- To gird up, to bind tightly with a girdle; to support and
strengthen, as with a girdle.
He girded up his loins, and ran before Ahab. 1 Kings xviii. 46.
Gird up the loins of your mind. 1 Pet. i. 13.
-- Girt up; prepared or equipped, as for a journey or for work, in
allusion to the ancient custom of gathering the long flowing garments
into the girdle and tightening it before any exertion; hence,
adjectively, eagerly or constantly active; strenuous; striving. "A
severer, more girt-up way of living." J. C. Shairp.

GIRDER
Gird"er, n. Etym: [From Gird to sneer at.]

Defn: One who girds; a satirist.

GIRDER
Gird"er, n. Etym: [From Gird to encircle.]

1. One who, or that which, girds.

2. (Arch. & Engin.)

Defn: A main beam; a stright, horizontal beam to span an opening or
carry weight, such as ends of floor beams, etc.; hence, a framed or
built-up member discharging the same office, technically called a
compound girder. See Illusts. of Frame, and Doubleframed floor, under
Double. Bowstring girder, Box girder, etc. See under Bowstring, Box,
etc.
 -- Girder bridge. See under Bridge.
 -- Lattice girder, a girder consisting of longitudinal bars united
by diagonal crossing bars.
 -- Half-lattice girder, a girder consisting of horizontal upper and
lower bars connected by a series of diagonal bars sloping alternately
in opposite directions so as to divide the space between the bars
into a series of triangles. Knight.
 -- Sandwich girder, a girder consisting of two parallel wooden
beams, between which is an iron plate, the whole clamped together by
iron bolts.

GIRDING
Gird"ing, n.

Defn: That with which one is girded; a girdle.
Instead of a stomacher, a girding of sackcloth. Is. iii. 24.

GIRDLE
Gir"dle, n.

Defn: A griddle. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

GIRDLE
Gir"dle, n. Etym: [OE. gurdel, girdel, AS. gyrdel, fr. gyrdan; akin
to D. gordel, G. gürtel, Icel. gyr. See Gird, v. t., to encircle, and
cf. Girth, n.]

1. That which girds, encircles, or incloses; a circumference; a belt;
esp., a belt, sash, or article of dress encircling the body usually
at the waist; a cestus.
Within the girdle of these walls. Shak.
Their breasts girded with golden girdles. Rev. xv. 6.

2. The zodiac; also, the equator. [Poetic] Bacon.
From the world's girdle to the frozen pole. Cowper.
That gems the starry girdle of the year. Campbell.

3. (Jewelry)

Defn: The line ofgreatest circumference of a brilliant-cut diamond,
at which it is grasped by the setting. See Illust. of Brilliant.
Knight.

4. (Mining)

Defn: A thin bed or stratum of stone. Raymond.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The clitellus of an earthworm. Girdle bone (Anat.), the
sphenethmoid. See under Sphenethmoid.
 -- Girdle wheel, a spinning wheel.
 -- Sea girdle (Zoöl.), a ctenophore. See Venus's girdle, under
Venus.
 -- Shoulder, Pectoral, and Pelvic, girdle. (Anat.) See under
Pectoral, and Pelvic.
 -- To have under the girdle, to have bound to one, that is, in
subjection.

GIRDLE
Gir"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Girdled; p. pr. & vb. n. Girdling.]

1. To bind with a belt or sash; to gird. Shak.

2. To inclose; to environ; to shut in.
Those sleeping stones, That as a waist doth girdle you about. Shak.

3. To make a cut or gnaw a groove around (a tree, etc.) through the
bark and alburnum, thus killing it. [U. S.]

GIRDLER
Gir"dler, n.

1. One who girdles.

2. A maker of girdles.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American longicorn beetle (Oncideres cingulatus) which lays
its eggs in the twigs of the hickory, and then girdles each branch by
gnawing a groove around it, thus killing it to provide suitable food
for the larvæ.

GIRDLESTEAD
Gir"dle*stead, n. Etym: [Girdle + stead place.]

1. That part of the body where the girdle is worn. [Obs.]
Sheathed, beneath his girdlestead. Chapman.

2. The lap. [R.]
There fell a flower into her girdlestead. Swinburne.

GIRE
Gire, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Gyre.

GIRKIN
Gir"kin, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Gherkin.

GIRL
Girl, n. Etym: [OE. girle, gerle, gurle, a girl (in sense 1): cf. LG.
gör child.]

1. A young person of either sex; a child. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A female child, from birth to the age of puberty; a young maiden.

3. A female servant; a maidservant. [U. S.]

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A roebuck two years old. [Prov. Eng.]

GIRLHOOD
Girl"hood, n.

Defn: State or time of being a girl.

GIRLISH
Girl"ish, a.

Defn: Like, or characteristic of, a girl; of or pertaining to
girlhood; innocent; artless; immature; weak; as, girlish ways;
girlish grief.
 -- Girl"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Girl"ish*ness, n.

GIRLOND
Gir"lond, n. Etym: [See Garland, n.]

Defn: A garland; a prize. [Obs.] Chapman.

GIRN
Girn, v. i. Etym: [See Grin, n.]

Defn: To grin. [Obs.]

GIRONDIST
Gi*ron"dist, n. Etym: [F. Girondiste.]

Defn: A member of the moderate republican party formed in the French
legislative assembly in 1791. The Girondists were so called because
their leaders were deputies from the department of La Gironde.

GIRONDIST
Gi*ron"dist, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Girondists. [Written also Girondin.]

GIRROCK
Gir"rock, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. F. chicarou.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A garfish. Johnson.

GIRT
Girt,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Gird.

GIRT
Girt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Girted; p. pr. & vb. n. Girting.] Etym:
[From Girt, n., cf. Girth, v.]

Defn: To gird; to encircle; to invest by means of a girdle; to
measure the girth of; as, to girt a tree.
We here create thee the first duke of Suffolk, And girt thee with the
sword. Shak.

GIRT
Girt, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Bound by a cable; -- used of a vessel so moored by two anchors
that she swings against one of the cables by force of the current or
tide.

GIRT
Girt, n.

Defn: Same as Girth.

GIRTH
Girth, n. Etym: [Icel. gjör girdle, or ger girth; akin to Goth.
gaírda girdle. See Gird to girt, and cf. Girdle, n.]

1. A band or strap which encircles the body; especially, one by which
a saddle is fastened upon the back of a horse.

2. The measure round the body, as at the waist or belly; the
circumference of anything.
He's a lu sty, jolly fellow, that lives well, at least three yards in
the girth. Addison.

3. A small horizontal brace or girder.

GIRTH
Girth, v. t. Etym: [From Girth, n., cf. Girt, v. t.]

Defn: To bind as with a girth. [R.] Johnson.

GIRTLINE
Girt"line`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A gantline. Hammock girtline, a line rigged for hanging out
hammocks to dry.

GISARM
Gis*arm", n. Etym: [OF. gisarme, guisarme.] (Mediæval Armor)

Defn: A weapon with a scythe-shaped blade, and a separate long sharp
point, mounted on a long staff and carried by foot soldiers.

GISE
Gise, v. t. Etym: [See Agist.]

Defn: To feed or pasture. [Obs.]

GISE
Gise, n.

Defn: Guise; manner. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GISLE
Gis"le, n. Etym: [AS. gisel; akin to G. geisel, Icel. gisl.]

Defn: A pledge. [Obs.] Bp. Gibson.

GISMONDINE; GISMONDITE
Gis*mon"dine, Gis*mon"dite, n. Etym: [From the name of the
discoverer, Gismondi.] (Min.)

Defn: A native hydrated silicate of alumina, lime, and potash, first
noticed near Rome.

GIST
Gist, n. Etym: [OF. giste abode, lodgings, F. gîte, fr. gésir to lie,
L. jac, prop., to be thrown, hence, to lie, fr. jacre to throw. In
the second sense fr. OF. gist, F. gît, 3d pers. sing. ind. of gésir
to lie, used in a proverb, F., c'est là que gît le lièvre, it is
there that the hare lies, i. e., that is the point, the difficulty.
See Jet a shooting forth, and cf. Agist, Joist, n., Gest a stage in
traveling.]

1. A resting place. [Obs.]
These quails have their set gists; to wit, ordinary resting and
baiting places. Holland.

2. The main point, as of a question; the point on which an action
rests; the pith of a matter; as, the gist of a question.

GIT
Git, n. (Founding)

Defn: See Geat.

GITANA; GITANO
Gi*ta"na, n. fem.; Gi*ta"no, n. masc. [Sp., fr. (assumed) LL.
Aegyptanus, fem. Aegyptana, Egyptian. Cf. Gypsy.]

Defn: A Spanish gypsy.

GITE
Gite, n.

Defn: A gown. [Obs.]
She came often in a gite of red. Chaucer.

GITH
Gith, n. Etym: [Prov. E., corn cockle; cf. W. gith corn cockle.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The corn cockle; also anciently applied to the Nigella, or
fennel flower.

GITTERN
Git"tern, n. Etym: [OE. giterne, OF. guiterne, ultimately from same
source as E. guitar. See Guitar, and cf. Cittern.]

Defn: An instrument like a guitar. "Harps, lutes, and giternes."
Chaucer.

GITTERN
Git"tern, v. i.

Defn: To play on gittern. Milton.

GITTITH
Git"tith, n. Etym: [Heb.]

Defn: A musical instrument, of unknown character, supposed by some to
have been used by the people of Gath, and thence obtained by David.
It is mentioned in the title of Psalms viii., lxxxi., and lxxxiv. Dr.
W. Smith.

GIUST
Giust, n. [Obs.]

Defn: Same as Joust. Spenser.

GIUST
Giust (just), n. [Obs.]

Defn: Same as Joust.  Spenser.

GIUSTO
Gius"to, a. Etym: [It., fr. L. justus. See Just, a.] (Mus.)

Defn: In just, correct, or suitable time.

GIVE
Give, v. t. [imp. Gave; p. p. Given; p. pr. & vb. n. Giving.] Etym:
[OE. given, yiven, yeven, AS. gifan, giefan; akin to D. geven, OS. g,
OHG. geban, Icel. gefa, Sw. gifva, Dan. give, Goth. giban. Cf. Gift,
n.]

1. To bestow without receiving a return; to confer without
compensation; to impart, as a possession; to grant, as authority or
permission; to yield up or allow.
For generous lords had rather give than pay. Young.

2. To yield possesion of; to deliver over, as property, in exchange
for something; to pay; as, we give the value of what we buy.
What shall a man give in exchange for his soul Matt. xvi. 26.

3. To yield; to furnish; to produce; to emit; as, flint and steel
give sparks.

4. To communicate or announce, as advice, tidings, etc.; to
pronounce; to render or utter, as an opinion, a judgment, a sentence,
a shout, etc.

5. To grant power or license to; to permit; to allow; to license; to
commission.
It is given me once again to behold my friend. Rowe.
Then give thy friend to shed the sacred wine. Pope.

6. To exhibit as a product or result; to produce; to show; as, the
number of men, divided by the number of ships, gives four hundred to
each ship.

7. To devote; to apply; used reflexively, to devote or apply one's
self; as, the soldiers give themselves to plunder; also in this sense
used very frequently in the past participle; as, the people are given
to luxury and pleasure; the youth is given to study.

8. (Logic & Math.)

Defn: To set forth as a known quantity or a known relation, or as a
premise from which to reason; -- used principally in the passive form
given.

9. To allow or admit by way of supposition.
I give not heaven for lost. Mlton.

10. To attribute; to assign; to adjudge.
I don't wonder at people's giving him to me as a lover. Sheridan.

11. To excite or cause to exist, as a sensation; as, to give offense;
to give pleasure or pain.

12. To pledge; as, to give one's word.

13. To cause; to make; -- with the infinitive; as, to give one to
understand, to know, etc.
But there the duke was given to understand That in a gondola were
seen together Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica. Shak.
To give away, to make over to another; to transfer.
Whatsoever we employ in charitable uses during our lives, is given
away from ourselves. Atterbury.
-- To give back, to return; to restore. Atterbury.
 -- To give the bag, to cheat. [Obs.]
I fear our ears have given us the bag. J. Webster.
-- To give birth to. (a) To bear or bring forth, as a child. (b) To
originate; to give existence to, as an enterprise, idea.
 -- To give chase, to pursue.
 -- To give ear to. See under Ear.
 -- To give forth, to give out; to publish; to tell. Hayward.
 -- To give ground. See under Ground, n.
 -- To give the hand, to pledge friendship or faith.
 -- To give the hand of, to espouse; to bestow in marriage.
 -- To give the head. See under Head, n.
 -- To give in. (a) To abate; to deduct. (b) To declare; to make
known; to announce; to tender; as, to give in one's adhesion to a
party.
 -- To give the lie to (a person), to tell (him) that he lies.
 -- To give line. See under Line.
 -- To give off, to emit, as steam, vapor, odor, etc.
 -- To give one's self away, to make an inconsiderate surrender of
one's cause, an unintentional disclosure of one's purposes, or the
like. [Colloq.] -- To give out. (a) To utter publicly; to report; to
announce or declare.
One that gives out himself Prince Florizel. Shak.
Give out you are of Epidamnum. Shak.
(b) To send out; to emit; to distribute; as, a substance gives out
steam or odors.
 -- To give over. (a) To yield completely; to quit; to abandon. (b)
To despair of. (c) To addict, resign, or apply (one's self).
The Babylonians had given themselves over to all manner of vice.
Grew.
 -- To give place, to withdraw; to yield one's claim.
 -- To give points. (a) In games of skill, to equalize chances by
conceding a certain advantage; to allow a handicap. (b) To give
useful suggestions. [Colloq.] -- To give rein. See under Rein, n.
 -- To give the sack . Same as To give the bag.
 -- To give and take. (a) To average gains and losses. (b) To
exchange freely, as blows, sarcasms, etc.
 -- To give time (Law), to accord extension or forbearance to a
debtor. Abbott.
 -- To give the time of day, to salute one with the compliment
appropriate to the hour, as "good morning." "good evening", etc.
 -- To give tongue, in hunter's phrase, to bark; -- said of dogs.
 -- To give up. (a) To abandon; to surrender. "Don't give up the
ship."
He has . . . given up For certain drops of salt, your city Rome.
Shak.
(b) To make public; to reveal.
I'll not state them By giving up their characters. Beau. & Fl.
(c) (Used also reflexively.) -- To give up the ghost. See under
Ghost.
 -- To give one's self up, to abandon hope; to despair; to surrender
one's self.
 -- To give way. (a) To withdraw; to give place. (b) To yield to
force or pressure; as, the scaffolding gave way. (c) (Naut.) To begin
to row; or to row with increased energy. (d) (Stock Exchange). To
depreciate or decline in value; as, railroad securities gave way two
per cent.
 -- To give way together, to row in time; to keep stroke.

Syn.
 -- To Give, Confer, Grant. To give is the generic word, embracing
all the rest. To confer was originally used of persons in power, who
gave permanent grants or privileges; as, to confer the order of
knighthood; and hence it still denotes the giving of something which
might have been withheld; as, to confer a favor. To grant is to give
in answer to a petition or request, or to one who is in some way
dependent or inferior.