

GLUTTONISH
Glut"ton*ish, a.

Defn: Gluttonous; greedy. Sir P. Sidney.

GLUTTONIZE
Glut"ton*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gluttonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gluttonizing.]

Defn: To eat to excess; to eat voraciously; to gormandize. Hallywell.

GLUTTONOUS
Glut"ton*ous, a.

Defn: Given to gluttony; eating to excess; indulging the appetite;
voracious; as, a gluttonous age.
 -- Glut"ton*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Glut"ton*ous*ness, n.

GLUTTONY
Glut"ton*y, n.; pl. Gluttonies. Etym: [OE. glotonie, OF. glotonie,
gloutonnie.]

Defn: Excess in eating; extravagant indulgence of the appetite for
food; voracity.
Their sumptuous gluttonies, and gorgeous feasts. Milton.

GLYCERATE
Glyc"er*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of glyceric acid.

GLYCERIC
Gly*cer"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, glycerin. Glyceric acid
(Chem.), an organic acid, obtained by the partial oxidation of
glycerin, as a thick liquid. It is a hydroxyl derivative of propionic
acid, and has both acid and alcoholic properties.

GLYCERIDE
Glyc"er*ide, n. Etym: [See Glycerin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound ether (formed from glycerin). Some glycerides exist
ready formed as natural fats, others are produced artificially.

GLYCERIN; GLYCERINE
Glyc"er*in, Glyc"er*ine (, n. Etym: [F. glycérine, fr. Gr. glykero`s,
glyky`s, sweet. Cf. Glucose, Licorice.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oily, viscous liquid, C3H5(OH)3, colorless and odorless, and
with a hot, sweetish taste, existing in the natural fats and oils as
the base, combined with various acids, as oleic, margaric, stearic,
and palmitic. It is a triatomic alcohol, and hence is also called
glycerol. See Note under Gelatin.

Note: It is obtained from fats by saponification, or, on a large
scale, by the action of superheated steam. It is used as an ointment,
as a solvent and vehicle for medicines, and as an adulterant in wine,
beer, etc.

GLYCERITE
Glyc"er*ite, n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicinal preparation made by mixing or dissolving a
substance in glycerin.

GLYCEROL
Glyc"er*ol, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Glycerin.

GLYCEROLE
Glyc"er*ole, n. Etym: [F. glycérolé.] (Med.)

Defn: Same as Glycerite.

GLYCERYL
Glyc"er*yl, n. Etym: [Glycerin + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical, C3H5, regarded as the essential radical of
glycerin. It is metameric with allyl. Called also propenyl.

GLYCIDE
Glyc"ide, n. Etym: [Glyceric + anhydride.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless liquid, obtained from certain derivatives of
glycerin, and regarded as a partially dehydrated glycerin; -- called
also glycidic alcohol.

GLYCIDIC
Gly*cid"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, glycide; as, glycidic acid.

GLYCIN
Gly"cin, n. Etym: [Gr. glyky`s sweet.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Glycocoll.

GLYCOCHOLATE
Gly`co*cho"late, n. Etym: [Glycocoll + cholic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A salt of glycocholic acid; as, sodium glycocholate.

GLYCOCHOLIC
Gly`co*chol"ic, a. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or composed of, glycocoll and cholic acid.
Glycocholic acid (Physiol. Chem.), a conjugate acid, composed of
glycocoll and cholic acid, present in bile in the form of a sodium
salt. The acid commonly forms a resinous mass, but can be
crystallized in long, white needles.

GLYCOCIN
Gly"co*cin, n. Etym: [Glycocoll + -in.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Glycocoll.

GLYCOCOLL
Gly"co*coll, n. Etym: [Gr. glyky`s sweet + ko`lla glue.] (Physiol.
Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline, nitrogenous substance, with a sweet taste,
formed from hippuric acid by boiling with hydrochloric acid, and
present in bile united with cholic acid. It is also formed from
gelatin by decomposition with acids. Chemically, it is amido-acetic
acid. Called also glycin, and glycocin.

GLYCOGEN
Gly"co*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen: cf. F. glycogène.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A white, amorphous, tasteless substance resembling starch,
soluble in water to an opalescent fluid. It is found abundantly in
the liver of most animals, and in small quantity in other organs and
tissues, particularly in the embryo. It is quickly changed into sugar
when boiled with dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, and also by
the action of amylolytic ferments.

GLYCOGENIC
Gly`co*gen"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or caused by, glycogen; as, the glycogenic
function of the liver.

GLYCOGENY; GLYCOGENESIS
Gly*cog"e*ny, Gly`co*gen"e*sis, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The production or formation of sugar from gycogen, as in the
liver.

GLYCOL
Gly"col, n. Etym: [Glycerin + -ol. See Glycerin.] (Chem.)
(a) A thick, colorless liquid, C2H4(OH)2, of a sweetish taste,
produced artificially from certain ethylene compounds. It is a diacid
alcohol, intermediate between ordinary ethyl alcohol and glycerin.
(b) Any one of the large class of diacid alcohols, of which glycol
proper is the type.

GLYCOLIC
Gly*col"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, glycol; as, glycolic ether;
glycolic acid. Glycolic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, found
naturally in unripe grapes and in the leaves of the wild grape
(Ampelopsis quinquefolia), and produced artificially in many ways, as
by the oxidation of glycol, -- whence its name. It is a sirupy, or
white crystalline, substance, HO.CH2.CO2H, has the properties both of
an alcohol and an acid, and is a type of the hydroxy acids; -- called
also hydroxyacetic acid.

GLYCOLIDE
Gly"co*lide, n. Etym: [Glycol + anhydride.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white amorphous powder, C4H4O, obtained by heating and
dehydrating glycolic acid. [Written also glycollide.]

GLYCOLURIC
Gly`co*lu"ric, a. Etym: [Glycol + uric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, glycol and urea; as, glycoluric
acid, which is called also hydantoic acid.

GLYCOLURIL
Gly`co*lu"ril, n. Etym: [Glycolyl + uric.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, obtained by the
reduction of allantoïn.

GLYCOLYL
Gly"co*lyl, n. Etym: [Glycolic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A divalent, compound radical, CO.CH2, regarded as the essential
radical of glycolic acid, and a large series of related compounds.

GLYCONIAN
Gly*co"ni*an, a. & n.

Defn: Glyconic.

GLYCONIC
Gly*con"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Glycon.] (Pros.)

Defn: Consisting of a spondee, a choriamb, and a pyrrhic; -- applied
to a kind of verse in Greek and Latin poetry.
 -- n. (Pros.)

Defn: A glyconic verse.

GLYCONIN
Gly"co*nin, n.

Defn: An emulsion of glycerin and the yolk of eggs, used as an
ointment, as a vehicle for medicines, etc.

GLYCOSE
Gly"cose, n. [Gr.  sweet + -ose.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of carbohydrates having from three to nine atoms
of carbon in the molecules and having the constitution either of an
aldehyde alcohol or of a ketone alcohol. Most glycoses have hydrogen
and oxygen present in the proportion to form water, while the number
of carbon atoms is usually equal to the number of atoms of oxygen.

GLYCOSINE
Gly"co*sine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base, C6H6N4, produced artificially as a white,
crystalline powder, by the action of ammonia on glyoxal.

GLYCOSOMETER
Gly`co*som"e*ter, n. [Gr.  sweet + -meter.] (Med.)

Defn: An apparatus for determining the amount of sugar in diabetic
urine.

GLYCOSURIA
Gly`co*su"ri*a, n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Gluoosuria.

GLYCYRRHIZA
Glyc`yr*rhi"za, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Licorice.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of papilionaceous herbaceous plants, one species of
which (G. glabra), is the licorice plant, the roots of which have a
bittersweet mucilaginous taste.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The root of Glycyrrhiza glabra (liquorice root), used as a
demulcent, etc.

GLYCYRRHIZIMIC
Glyc`yr*rhi*zim"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: From, or pertaining to, glycyrrhizin; as, glycyrrhizimic acid.

GLYCYRRHIZIN
Gly*cyr"rhi*zin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. glycyrrhizine. See Glycyrrhiza.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in licorice root (Glycyrrhiza), in monesia
bark (Chrysophyllum), in the root of the walnut, etc., and extracted
as a yellow, amorphous powder, of a bittersweet taste.

GLYN; GLYNNE
Glyn, Glynne, n.

Defn: A glen. See Glen.

Note: [Obs. singly, but occurring often in locative names in Ireland,
as Glen does in Scotland.]
He could not beat out the Irish, yet he did shut them up within those
narrow corners and glyns under the mountain's foot. Spenser.

GLYOXAL
Gly*ox"al, n. Etym: [Glycol + oxalic + aldehyde.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, amorphous, deliquescent powder, (CO.H)2, obtained by
the partial oxidation of glycol. It is a double aldehyde, between
glycol and oxalic acid.

GLYOXALIC
Gly`ox*al"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an aldehyde acid, intermediate
between glycol and oxalic acid. [Written also glyoxylic.]

GLYOXALINE
Gly*ox"a*line, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, organic base, C3H4N2, produced by the
action of ammonia on glyoxal, and forming the origin of a large class
of derivatives hence, any one of the series of which glyoxaline is a
type; -- called also oxaline.

GLYOXIME
Gly*ox"ime, n. Etym: [Glyoxal + oxime.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, produced by the
action of hydroxylamine on glyoxal, and belonging to the class of
oximes; also, any one of a group of substances resembling glyoxime
proper, and of which it is a type. See Oxime.

GLYPH
Glyph, n. Etym: [Gr. glyphe. Cf. Cleave to split.] (Arch.)

Defn: A sunken channel or groove, usually vertical. See Triglyph.

GLYPHIC
Glyph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Of or pertaining to sculpture or carving of any sort, esp. to
glyphs.

GLYPHOGRAPH
Glyph"o*graph, n.

Defn: A plate made by glyphography, or an impression taken from such
a plate.

GLYPHOGRAPHIC
Glyph`o*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to glyphography.

GLYPHOGRAPHY
Gly*phog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A process similar to etching, in which, by means of voltaic
electricity, a raised copy of a drawing is made, so that it can be
used to print from.

GLYPTIC
Glyp"tic, a. Etym: [See Glyph.]

1. Of or pertaining to gem engraving.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Figured; marked as with figures.

GLYPTICS
Glyp"tics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. glyptique. See Glyph.]

Defn: The art of engraving on precious stones.

GLYPTODON
Glyp"to*don, n. Etym: [Gr. Glyph.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct South American quaternary mammal, allied to the
armadillos. It was as large as an ox, was covered with tessellated
scales, and had fluted teeth. Owen.

GLYPTODONT
Glyp"to*dont, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: One of a family (glyptodontidæ) of extinct South American
edentates, of which Glyptodon is the type. About twenty species are
known.

GLYPTOGRAPHIC
Glyp`to*graph"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. glyptographique.]

Defn: Relating to glyptography, or the art of engraving on precious
stones. [R.]

GLYPTOGRAPHY
Glyp*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy: cf. F. glyptographie.]

Defn: The art or process of engraving on precious stones. [R.]

GLYPTOTHECA
Glyp`to*the"ca, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A building or room devoted to works of sculpture.

GLYSTER
Glys"ter, n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Clyster.

GMELINITE
Gmel"in*ite, n. Etym: [Named after the German chemist Gmelin.] (Min.)

Defn: A rhombohedral zeolitic mineral, related in form and
composition to chabazite.

GNAPHALIUM
Gna*pha"li*um, n. Etym: [Nl., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of composite plants with white or colored dry and
persistent involucres; a kind of everlasting.

GNAR
Gnar, n. Etym: [OE. knarre, gnarre, akin to OD. knor, G. knorren. Cf.
Knar, Knur, Gnarl.]

Defn: A knot or gnarl in wood; hence, a tough, thickset man; --
written also gnarr. [Archaic]
He was . . . a thick gnarre. Chaucer.

GNAR
Gnar, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gnarred; p. pr. & vb. n. Gnarring.] Etym:
[See Gnarl.]

Defn: To gnarl; to snarl; to growl; -- written also gnarr. [Archaic]
At them he gan to rear his bristles strong, And felly gnarre.
Spenser.
A thousand wants Gnarr at the heels of men. Tennison.

GNARL
Gnarl, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gnarled; p. pr. & vb. n. Gnarling.] Etym:
[From older gnar, prob. of imitative origin; cf. G. knarren, knurren.
D. knorren, Sw. knorra, Dan. knurre.]

Defn: To growl; to snarl.
And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first. Shak.

GNARL
Gnarl, n. Etym: [See Gnar, n.]

Defn: a knot in wood; a large or hard knot, or a protuberance with
twisted grain, on a tree.

GNARLED
Gnarled, a.

Defn: Knotty; full of knots or gnarls; twisted; crossgrained.
The unwedgeable and gnarléd oak. Shak.

GNARLY
Gnarl"y, a.

Defn: Full of knots; knotty; twisted; crossgrained.

GNASH
Gnash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gnashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gnashing.] Etym:
[OE. gnasten, gnaisten, cf. Icel. gnastan a gnashing, gn to gnash,
Dan.knaske, Sw. gnissla, D. knarsen, G. knirschen.]

Defn: To strike together, as in anger or pain; as, to gnash the
teeth.

GNASH
Gnash, v. i.

Defn: To grind or strike the teeth together.
There they him laid, Gnashing for anguish, and despite, and shame.
Milton.

GNASHINGLY
Gnash"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With gnashing.

GNAT
Gnat, n. Etym: [AS. gnæt.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A blood-sucking dipterous fly, of the genus Culex, undergoing a
metamorphosis in water. The females have a proboscis armed with
needlelike organs for penetrating the skin of animals. These are
wanting in the males. In America they are generally called
mosquitoes. See Mosquito.

2. Any fly resembling a Culex in form or habits; esp., in America, a
small biting fly of the genus Simulium and allies, as the buffalo
gnat, the black fly, etc. Gnat catcher (Zoöl.), one of several
species of small American singing birds, of the genus Polioptila,
allied to the kinglets.
 -- Gnat flower, the bee flower.
 -- Gnat hawk (Zoöl.), the European goatsucker; -- called also gnat
owl.
 -- Gnat snapper (Zoöl.), a bird that catches gnats.
 -- Gnat strainer, a person ostentatiously punctilious about trifles.
Cf. Matt. xxiii. 24.

GNATHIC
Gnath"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the jaw. Gnathic index, in a skull, the
ratio of the distance from the middle of the nasofrontal suture to
the basion (taken equal to 100), to the distance from the basion to
the middle of the front edge of the upper jaw; -- called also
alveolar index.
Skulls with the gnathic index below 98 are orthognathous, from 98 to
103 mesognathous, and above 103 are prognathous. Flower.

GNATHIDIUM
Gna*thid"i*um, n.; pl. Gnathidia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ramus of the lower jaw of a bird as far as it is naked; --
commonly used in the plural.

GNATHITE
Gnath"ite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of the mouth appendages of the Arthropoda. They are
known as mandibles, maxillæ, and maxillipeds.

GNATHONIC; GNATHONICAL
Gna*thon"ic, Gna*thon"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Gnatho, name of a parasite
in the "Eunuchus" of Terence, Gr.

Defn: Flattering; deceitful. [Obs.]

GNATHOPOD
Gnath"o*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. -pod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gnathopodite or maxilliped. See Maxilliped.

GNATHOPODITE
Gna*thop"o*dite, n. (Zoöl,)

Defn: Any leglike appendage of a crustacean, when modified wholly, or
in part, to serve as a jaw, esp. one of the maxillipeds.

GNATHOSTEGITE
Gna*thos"te*gite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a pair of broad plates, developed from the outer
maxillipeds of crabs, and forming a cover for the other mouth organs.

GNATHOSTOMA
Gna*thos"to*ma, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comprehensive division of vertebrates, including all that
have distinct jaws, in contrast with the leptocardians and
marsipobranchs (Cyclostoma), which lack them. [Written also
Gnathostomata.]

GNATHOTHECA
Gnath`o*the"ca, n.; pl. GnathothecÆ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The horney covering of the lower mandible of a bird.

GNATLING
Gnat"ling, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small gnat.

GNATWORM
Gnat"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The aquatic larva of a gnat; -- called also, colloquially,
wiggler.

GNAW
Gnaw, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gnawed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gnawing.] Etym:
[OE. gnawen, AS. gnagan; akin to D. knagen, OHG. gnagan, nagan, G.
nagen, Icel. & Sw. gnaga, Dan. gnave, nage. Cf. Nag to tease.]

1. To bite, as something hard or tough, which is not readily
separated or crushed; to bite off little by little, with effort; to
wear or eat away by scraping or continuous biting with the teeth; to
nibble at.
His bones clean picked; his very bones they gnaw. Dryden.

2. To bite in agony or rage.
They gnawed their tongues for pain. Rev. xvi. 10.

3. To corrode; to fret away; to waste.

GNAW
Gnaw, v. i.

Defn: To use the teeth in biting; to bite with repeated effort, as in
eating or removing with the teethsomething hard, unwiedly, or
unmanageable.
I might well, like the spaniel, gnaw upon the chain that ties me. Sir
P. Sidney.

GNAWER
Gnaw"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, gnaws.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rodent.

GNEISS
Gneiss, n. Etym: [G.] (Geol.)

Defn: A crystalline rock, consisting, like granite, of quartz,
feldspar, and mica, but having these materials, especially the mica,
arranged in planes, so that it breaks rather easily into coarse slabs
or flags. Hornblende sometimes takes the place of the mica, and it is
then called hornblendic or syenitic gneiss. Similar varieties of
related rocks are also called gneiss.

GNEISSIC
Gneis"sic, a.

Defn: Relating to, or resembling, gneiss; consisting of gneiss.

GNEISSOID
Gneis"soid, a. Etym: [Gneiss+ -old.]

Defn: Resembling gneiss; having some of the characteristics of
gneiss; -- applied to rocks of an intermediate character between
granite and gneiss, or mica slate and gneiss.

GNEISSOSE
Gneis"sose`, a.

Defn: Having the structure of gneiss.

GNEW
Gnew, obs.

Defn: imp. of Gnaw. Chaucer.

GNIDE
Gnide (nid), v. t. Etym: [AS. gnidan.]

Defn: To rub; to bruise; to break in pieces. [Obs.]

Note: This word is found in Tyrwhitt's Chaucer, but improperly. The
woed, though common in Old English, does not occur in Chaucer. T. R.
Lounsbury.

GNOF
Gnof, n.

Defn: Churl; curmudgeon. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GNOME
Gnome, n. Etym: [F. gnome, prob. fr. Gr. i. e., of the treasures in
the inner parts of the earth, or fr. Know.]

1. An imaginary being, supposed by the Rosicrucians to inhabit the
inner parts of the earth, and to be the guardian of mines, quarries,
etc.

2. A dwarf; a goblin; a person of small stature or misshapen
features, or of strange appearance.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small owl (Glaucidium gnoma) of the Western United States.

4. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A brief reflection or maxim. Peacham.

GNOMIC; GNOMICAL
Gnom"ic, Gnom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. gnomique. See Gnome maxim.]

Defn: Sententious; uttering or containing maxims, or striking
detached thoughts; aphoristic.
A city long famous as the seat of elegiac and gnomic poetry. G. R.
Lewes.
Gnomic Poets, Greek poets, as Theognis and Solon, of the sixth
century B. C., whose writings consist of short sententious precepts
and reflections.

GNOMICAL
Gnom"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Gnomon.]

Defn: Gnomonical. Boyle.

GNOMICALLY
Gnom"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a gnomic, didactic, or sententious manner.

GNOMOLOGIC; GNOMOLOGICAL
Gno`mo*log"ic, Gno`mo*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to, of the nature of, or resembling, a gnomology.

GNOMOLOGY
Gno*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. gnomologie.]

Defn: A collection of, or a treatise on, maxims, grave sentences, or
reflections. [Obs.] Milton.

GNOMON
Gno"mon, n. Etym: [L. gnomon, Gr. Gnome.]

1. (Dialing)

Defn: The style or pin, which by its shadow, shows the hour of the
day. It is usually set parallel to the earth's axis.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A style or column erected perpendicularly to the horizon,
formerly used in astronomocal observations. Its principal use was to
find the altitude of the sun by measuring the length of its shadow.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: The space included between the boundary lines of two similar
parallelograms, the one within the other, with an angle in common;
as, the gnomon bcdefg of the parallelograms ac and af. The
parallelogram bf is the complement of the parallelogram df.

4. The index of the hour circle of a globe.

GNOMONIC; GNOMONICAL
Gno*mon"ic, Gno*mon"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. gnomonicus, Gr. gnomonique.
See Gnomon.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the gnomon, or the art of dialing. Gnomonic
projection, a projection of the circles of the sphere, in which the
point of sight is taken at the center of the sphere, and the
principal plane is tangent to the surface of the sphere. "The
gnomonic projection derives its name from the connection between the
methods of describing it and those for the construction of a gnomon
or dial." Cyc. of Arts & Sciences.

GNOMONICALLY
Gno*mon"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: According to the principles of the gnomonic projection.

GNOMONICS
Gno*mon"ics, n. Etym: [See Gnomonic.]

Defn: The art or science of dialing, or of constructing dials to show
the hour of the day by the shadow of a gnomon.

GNOMONIST
Gno"mon*ist, n.

Defn: One skilled in gnomonics. Boyle.

GNOMONOLOGY
Gno`mon*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gnomon + -logy. Cf. Gnomonology.]

Defn: A treatise on gnomonics.

GNOSCOPINE
Gnos"co*pine, n. Etym: [Gr. gignw`skein to know + E. opium] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid existing in small quantities in opium.

GNOSIS
Gno"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. gnw^sis.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The deeper wisdom; knowledge of spiritual truth, such as was
claimed by the Gnostics.

GNOSTIC
Gnos"tic, a.

1. Knowing; wise; shrewd. [Old Slang]
I said you were a gnostic fellow. Sir W. Scott.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Gnosticism or its adherents; as, the
Gnostic heresy.

GNOSTIC
Gnos"tic, n. Etym: [L. gnosticus, Gr. gignw`skein to know: cf. F.
gnostique. See Know.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of the so-called philosophers in the first ages of
Christianity, who claimed a true philosophical interpretation of the
Christian religion. Their system combined Oriental theology and Greek
philosophy with the doctrines of Christianity. They held that all
natures, intelligible, intellectual, and material, are derived from
the Deity by successive emanations, which they called Eons.

GNOSTICISM
Gnos"ti*cism, n.

Defn: The system of philosophy taught by the Gnostics.

GNOW
Gnow, obs. imp. of Gnaw.

Defn: Gnawed. Chaucer.

GNU
Gnu, n. Etym: [Hottentot gnu, or nju: cf. F. gnou.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of two species of large South African antelopes of the
genus Catoblephas, having a mane and bushy tail, and curved horns in
both sexes. [Written also gnoo.]

Note: The common gnu or wildebeest (Catoblephas gnu) is plain brown;
the brindled gnu or blue wildebeest (C. gorgon) is larger, with
transverse stripes of black on the neck and shoulders.

GO
Go, obs. p. p. of Go.

Defn: Gone. Chaucer.

GO
Go, v. i. [imp. Went; p. p. Gone; p. pr. & vb. n. Going. Went comes
from the AS, wendan. See Wend, v. i.] Etym: [OE. gan, gon, AS. gan,
akin to D. gaan, G. gehn, gehen, OHG. g, gan, SW. ga, Dan. gaae; cf.
Gr. ha to go, AS. gangan, and E. gang. The past tense in AS., eode,
is from the root i to go, as is also Goth. iddja went. sq. root47a.
Cf. Gang, v. i., Wend.]

1. To pass from one place to another; to be in motion; to be in a
state not motionless or at rest; to proced; to advance; to make
progress; -- used, in various applications, of the movement of both
animate and inanimate beings, by whatever means, and also of the
movements of the mind; also figuratively applied.

2. To move upon the feet, or step by step; to walk; also, to walk
step by step, or leisurely.

Note: In old writers go is much used as opposed to run, or ride.
"Whereso I go or ride." Chaucer.
You know that love Will creep in service where it can not go. Shak.
Thou must run to him; for thou hast staid so long that going will
scarce serve the turn. Shak.
He fell from running to going, and from going to clambering upon his
hands and his knees. Bunyan.

Note: In Chaucer go is used frequently with the pronoun in the
objective used reflexively; as, he goeth him home.

3. To be passed on fron one to another; to pass; to circulate; hence,
with for, to have currency; to be taken, accepted, or regarded.
The man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul. 1 Sa.
xvii. 12.
[The money] should go according to its true value. Locke.

4. To proceed or happen in a given manner; to fare; to move on or be
carried on; to have course; to come to an issue or result; to
succeed; to turn out.
How goes the night, boy Shak.
I think, as the world goes, he was a good sort of man enough.
Arbuthnot.
Whether the cause goes for me or against me, you must pay me the
reward. I Watts.

5. To proceed or tend toward a result, consequence, or product; to
tend; to conduce; to be an ingredient; to avail; to apply; to
contribute; -- often with the infinitive; as, this goes to show.
Against right reason all your counsels go. Dryden.
To master the foul flend there goeth some complement knowledge of
theology. Sir W. Scott.

6. To apply one's self; to set one's self; to undertake.
Seeing himself confronted by so many, like a resolute orator, he went
not to denial, but to justify his cruel falsehood. Sir P. Sidney.

Note: Go, in this sense, is often used in the present participle with
the auxiliary verb to be, before an infinitive, to express a future
of intention, or to denote design; as, I was going to say; I am going
to begin harvest.

7. To proceed by a mental operation; to pass in mind or by an act of
the memory or imagination; -- generally with over or through.
By going over all these particulars, you may receive some tolerable
satisfaction about this great subject. South.

8. To be with young; to be pregnant; to gestate.
The fruit she goes with, I pray for heartily, that it may find Good
time, and live. Shak.

9. To move from the person speaking, or from the point whence the
action is contemplated; to pass away; to leave; to depart; -- in
opposition to stay and come.
I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to the Lord your God; . . .
only ye shall not go very far away. Ex. viii. 28.

10. To pass away; to depart forever; to be lost or ruined; to perish;
to decline; to decease; to die.
By Saint George, he's gone! That spear wound hath our master sped.
Sir W. Scott.

11. To reach; to extend; to lead; as, a line goes across the street;
his land goes to the river; this road goes to New York.
His amorous expressions go no further than virtue may allow. Dryden.

12. To have recourse; to resort; as, to go to law.

Note: Go is used, in combination with many prepositions and adverbs,
to denote motion of the kind indicated by the preposition or adverb,
in which, and not in the verb, lies the principal force of the
expression; as, to go against to go into, to go out, to go aside, to
go astray, etc. Go to, come; move; go away; -- a phrase of
exclamation, serious or ironical.
 -- To go a-begging, not to be in demand; to be undesired.
 -- To go about. (a) To set about; to enter upon a scheme of action;
to undertake. "They went about to slay him." Acts ix. 29.
They never go about . . . to hide or palliate their vices. Swift.
(b) (Naut.) To tack; to turn the head of a ship; to wear.
 -- To go abraod. (a) To go to a foreign country. (b) To go out of
doors. (c) To become public; to be published or disclosed; to be
current.
Then went this saying abroad among the brethren. John xxi. 23.
-- To go against. (a) To march against; to attack. (b) To be in
opposition to; to be disagreeable to.
 -- To go ahead. (a) To go in advance. (b) To go on; to make
progress; to proceed.
 -- To go and come. See To come and go, under Come.
 -- To go aside. (a) To withdraw; to retire.
He . . . went aside privately into a desert place. Luke. ix. 10.
(b) To go from what is right; to err. Num. v. 29.-- To go back on.
(a) To retrace (one's path or footsteps). (b) To abandon; to turn
against; to betray. [Slang, U. S.] -- To go below (Naut), to go below
deck.
 -- To go between, to interpose or mediate between; to be a secret
agent between parties; in a bad sense, to pander.
 -- To go beyond. See under Beyond.
 -- To go by, to pass away unnoticed; to omit.
 -- To go by the board (Naut.), to fall or be carried overboard; as,
the mast went by the board.
 -- To go down. (a) To descend. (b) To go below the horizon; as, the
sun has gone down. (c) To sink; to founder; -- said of ships, etc.
(d) To be swallowed; -- used literally or figuratively. [Colloq.]
Nothing so ridiculous, . . . but it goes down whole with him for
truth. L' Estrange.
-- To go far. (a) To go to a distance. (b) To have much weight or
influence.
 -- To go for. (a) To go in quest of. (b) To represent; to pass for.
(c) To favor; to advocate. (d) To attack; to assault. [Low] (e) To
sell for; to be parted with for (a price).
 -- To go for nothing, to be parted with for no compensation or
result; to have no value, efficacy, or influence; to count for
nothing.
 -- To go forth. (a) To depart from a place. (b) To be divulged or
made generally known; to emanate.
The law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from
Jerusalem. Micah iv. 2.
-- To go hard with, to trouble, pain, or endanger.
 -- To go in, to engage in; to take part. [Colloq.] -- To go in and
out, to do the business of life; to live; to have free access. John
x. 9.
 -- To go in for. [Colloq.] (a) To go for; to favor or advocate (a
candidate, a measure, etc.). (b) To seek to acquire or attain to
(wealth, honor, preferment, etc.) (c) To complete for (a reward,
election, etc.). (d) To make the object of one's labors, studies,
etc.
He was as ready to go in for statistics as for anything else.
Dickens.
-- To go in to or unto. (a) To enter the presence of. Esther iv.
16.(b) To have sexual intercourse with. [Script.] -- To go into. (a)
To speak of, investigate, or discuss (a question, subject, etc.). (b)
To participate in (a war, a business, etc.).
 -- To go large. (Naut) See under Large.
 -- To go off. (a) To go away; to depart.
The leaders . . . will not go off until they hear you. Shak.
(b) To cease; to intermit; as, this sickness went off. (c) To die.
Shak. (d) To explode or be discharged; -- said of gunpowder, of a
gun, a mine, etc. (e) To find a purchaser; to be sold or disposed of.
(f) To pass off; to take place; to be accomplished.
The wedding went off much as such affairs do. Mrs. Caskell.
-- To go on. (a) To proceed; to advance further; to continue; as, to
go on reading. (b) To be put or drawn on; to fit over; as, the coat
will not go on.
 -- To go all fours, to correspond exactly, point for point.
It is not easy to make a simile go on all fours. Macaulay.
-- To go out. (a) To issue forth from a place. (b) To go abroad; to
make an excursion or expedition.
There are other men fitter to go out than I. Shak.
What went ye out for to see Matt. xi. 7, 8, 9.
(c) To become diffused, divulged, or spread abroad, as news, fame
etc. (d) To expire; to die; to cease; to come to an end; as, the
light has gone out.
Life itself goes out at thy displeasure. Addison.
-- To go over. (a) To traverse; to cross, as a river, boundary, etc.;
to change sides.
I must not go over Jordan. Deut. iv. 22.
Let me go over, and see the good land that is beyond Jordan. Deut.
iii. 25.
Ishmael . . . departed to go over to the Ammonites. Jer. xli. 10.
(b) To read, or study; to examine; to review; as, to go over one's
accounts.
If we go over the laws of Christianity, we shall find that . . . they
enjoin the same thing. Tillotson.
(c) To transcend; to surpass. (d) To be postponed; as, the bill went
over for the session. (e) (Chem.) To be converted (into a specified
substance or material); as, monoclinic sulphur goes over into
orthorhombic, by standing; sucrose goes over into dextrose and
levulose.
 -- To go through. (a) To accomplish; as, to go through a work. (b)
To suffer; to endure to the end; as, to go through a surgical
operation or a tedious illness. (c) To spend completely; to exhaust,
as a fortune. (d) To strip or despoil (one) of his property. [Slang]
(e) To botch or bungle a business. [Scot.] -- To go through with, to
perform, as a calculation, to the end; to complete.
 -- To go to ground. (a) To escape into a hole; -- said of a hunted
fox. (b) To fall in battle.
 -- To go to naught (Colloq.), to prove abortive, or unavailling.
 -- To go under. (a) To set; -- said of the sun. (b) To be known or
recognized by (a name, title, etc.). (c) To be overwhelmed,
submerged, or defeated; to perish; to succumb.
 -- To go up, to come to nothing; to prove abortive; to fail. [Slang]
-- To go upon, to act upon, as a foundation or hypothesis.
 -- To go with. (a) To accompany. (b) To coincide or agree with. (c)
To suit; to harmonize with.
 -- To go (well, ill, or hard) with, to affect (one) in such manner.
 -- To go without, to be, or to remain, destitute of.
 -- To go wrong. (a) To take a wrong road or direction; to wander or
stray. (b) To depart from virtue. (c) To happen unfortunately. (d) To
miss success.
 -- To let go, to allow to depart; to quit one's hold; to release.

GO
Go, v. t.

1. To take, as a share in an enterprise; to undertake or become
responsible for; to bear a part in.
They to go equal shares in the booty. L'Estrange.

2. To bet or wager; as, I'll go you a shilling. [Colloq.] To go
halves, to share with another equally.
 -- To go it, to behave in a wild manner; to be uproarious; to carry
on; also, to proceed; to make progress. [Colloq.] -- To go it alone
(Card Playing), to play a hand without the assistance of one's
partner.
 -- To go it blind. (a) To act in a rash, reckless, or headlong
manner. [Slang] (b) (Card Playing) To bet without having examined the
cards.
 -- To go one's way, to set forth; to depart.

GO
Go, n.

1. Act; working; operation. [Obs.]
So gracious were the goes of marriage. Marston.

2. A circumstance or occurrence; an incident. [Slang]
This is a pretty go. Dickens.

3. The fashion or mode; as, quite the go. [Colloq.]

4. Noisy merriment; as, a high go. [Colloq.]

5. A glass of spirits. [Slang]

6. Power of going or doing; energy; vitality; perseverance; push; as,
there is no go in him. [Colloq.]

7. (Cribbage)

Defn: That condition in the course of the game when a player can not
lay down a card which will not carry the aggregate count above
thirty-one. Great go, Little go, the final and the preliminary
examinations for a degree. [Slang, Eng. Univ.] -- No go, a failure; a
fiasco. [Slang] Thackeray.
 -- On the go, moving about; unsettled. [Colloq.]

GOA
Go"a, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of antelope (Procapra picticauda), inhabiting Thibet.

GOAD
Goad, n. Etym: [AS. gad; perh. akin to AS. gar a dart, and E. gore.
See Gore, v. t.]

Defn: A pointed instrument used to urge on a beast; hence, any
necessity that urges or stimulates.
The daily goad urging him to the daily toil. Macaulay.

GOAD
Goad, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Goaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Goading.]

Defn: To prick; to drive with a goad; hence, to urge forward, or to
rouse by anything pungent, severe, irritating, or inflaming; to
stimulate.
That temptation that doth goad us on. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To urge; stimulate; excite; arouse; irritate; incite; instigate.

GOAF
Goaf; n.; pl. Goafs or Goaves. Etym: [Cf. lst Gob.] (Mining)

Defn: That part of a mine from which the mineral has been partially
or wholly removed; the waste left in old workings; -- called also gob
. To work the goaf or gob, to remove the pillars of mineral matter
previously left to support the roof, and replace them with props.
Ure.

GOAL
Goal, n. Etym: [F. gaule pole, Prov. F. waule, of German origin; cf.
Fries. walu staff, stick, rod, Goth. walus, Icel. völr a round stick;
prob. akin to E. wale.]

1. The mark set to bound a race, and to or around which the
constestants run, or from which they start to return to it again; the
place at which a race or a journey is to end.
Part curb their fiery steeds, or shun the goal With rapid wheels.
Milton.

2. The final purpose or aim; the end to which a design tends, or
which a person aims to reach or attain.
Each individual seeks a several goal. Pope.

3. A base, station, or bound used in various games; in football, a
line between two posts across which the ball must pass in order to
score; also, the act of kicking the ball over the line between the
goal posts. Goal keeper, the player charged with the defense of the
goal.

GOA POWDER
Go"a pow"der. Etym: [So called from Goa, on the Malabar coast,
whither it was shipped from Portugal.]

Defn: A bitter powder (also called araroba) found in the interspaces
of the wood of a Brazilian tree (Andira araroba) and used as a
medicine. It is the material from which chrysarobin is obtained.

GOAR
Goar, n.

Defn: Same as lst Gore.

GOARISH
Goar"ish, a.

Defn: Patched; mean. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

GOAT
Goat, n. Etym: [OE goot, got, gat, AS. gat; akin to D. geit, OHG.
geiz, G. geiss, Icel. geit, Sw. get, Dan. ged, Goth. gaits, L. haedus
a young goat, kid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hollow-horned ruminant of the genus Capra, of several species
and varieties, esp. the domestic goat (C. hircus), which is raised
for its milk, flesh, and skin.

Note: The Cashmere and Angora varieties of the goat have long, silky
hair, used in the manufacture of textile fabrics. The wild or bezoar
goat (Capra ægagrus), of Asia Minor, noted for the bezoar stones
found in its stomach, is supposed to be one of the ancestral species
ofthe domestic goat. The Rocky Montain goat (Haplocercus montanus) is
more nearly related to the antelopes. See Mazame. Goat antelope
(Zoöl), one of several species of antelopes, which in some respects
resemble a goat, having recurved horns, a stout body, large hoofs,
and a short, flat tail, as the goral, thar, mazame, and chikara.
 -- Goat fig (Bot.), the wild fig.
 -- Goat house. (a) A place for keeping goats. (b) A brothel. [Obs.]
-- Goat moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genus Cossus, esp. the large
European species (C. ligniperda), the larva of which burrows in oak
and willow trees, and requires three years to mature. It exhales an
odor like that of the he-goat.
 -- Goat weed (Bot.), a scrophulariaceous plant, of the genus
Capraria (C. biflora).
 -- Goat's bane (Bot.), a poisonous plant (Aconitum Lucoctonum),
bearing pale yellow flowers, introduced from Switzerland into
England; wolfsbane.
 -- Goat's beard (Bot.), a plant of the genus Tragopogon; -- so named
from the long silky beard of the seeds. One species is the salsify or
oyster plant.
 -- Goat's foot (Bot.), a kind of wood sorrel (Oxalis caprina)
growing at the Cape of Good Hope.
 -- Goat's rue (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Galega officinalis of
Europe, or Tephrosia Virginiana in the United States).
 -- Goat's thorn (Bot.), a thorny leguminous plant (Astragalus
Tragacanthus), found in the Levant.
 -- Goat's wheat (Bot.), the genus Tragopyrum (now referred to
Atraphaxis).

GOATEE
Goat`ee", n.

Defn: A part of a man's beard on the chin or lower lip which is
allowed to grow, and trimmed so as to resemble the beard of a goat.

GOATFISH
Goat"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the genus Upeneus, inhabiting the Gulf of Mexico. It
is allied to the surmullet.

GOATHERD
Goat"herd`, n.

Defn: One who tends goats. Spenser.

GOATISH
Goat"ish, a.

Defn: Characteristic of a goat; goatlike.
Give your chaste body up to the embraces Of goatish lust. Massinger.
-- Goat"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Goat"ish*ness, n.

GOATLIKE
Goat"like`, a.

Defn: Like a goat; goatish.

GOATSKIN
Goat"skin`, n.

Defn: The skin of a goat, or leather made from it.
 -- a.

Defn: Made of the skin of a goat.

GOATSUCKER
Goat"suck`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of insectivorous birds, belonging to
Caprimulgus and allied genera, esp. the European species (Caprimulgus
Europæus); -- so called from the mistaken notion that it sucks goats.
The European species is also goat-milker, goat owl, goat chaffer,
fern owl, night hawk, nightjar, night churr, churr-owl, gnat hawk,
and dorhawk .

GOAVES
Goaves, n. pl. Etym: [See Goaf, n.] (Mining)

Defn: Old workings. See Goaf. Raymond.

GOB
Gob, n. Etym: [Cf. Goaf.] (Mining)

Defn: Same as Goaf.

GOB
Gob, n. Etym: [OF. gob morsel; cf. F. gobe, gobbe, a poisoned morsel,
poison ball, gobet a piece swallowed, gober to swallow greedily and
without tasting; cf. Gael. & Ir. gob mouth, snout, W. gwp a bird's
head and neck. Cf. Gobble, Job, n.]

1. A little mass or collection; a small quantity; a mouthful. [Low]
L'Estrange.

2. The mouth. [Prov. Eng.or Low] Wright.

GOBANG
Go*bang", n. [Written also goban.] [Jap. goban checkerboard, fr.
Chino-Jap. go checker + ban board.]

Defn: A Japanese game, played on a checkerboard, in which the object
of the game is to be the first in placing five pieces, or men, in a
row in any direction.

GOBBET
Gob"bet, n. Etym: [OE. & F. gobet. See 2d Gob.]

Defn: A mouthful; a lump; a small piece. Spenser.
[He] had broken the stocks to small gobbets. Wyclif.

GOBBET
Gob"bet, v. t.

Defn: To swallow greedily; to swallow in gobbets. [Low] L'Estrange.

GOBBETLY
Gob"bet*ly, adv.

Defn: In pieces. [Obs.] Huloet.

GOBBING
Gob"bing, n. Etym: [See lst Gob.] (Mining)
(a) The refuse thrown back into the excavation after removing the
coal. It is called also gob stuff. Brande & C.
(b) The process of packing with waste rock; stowing.

GOBBLE
Gob"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gobbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Gobbling.]
Etym: [Freq. of 2d gob.]

1. To swallow or eat greedily or hastily; to gulp.
Supper gobbled up in haste. Swift.

2. To utter (a sound) like a turkey cock.
He . . . gobbles out a note of self-approbation. Goldsmith.
To gobble up, to capture in a mass or in masses; to capture suddenly.
[Slang]

GOBBLE
Gob"ble, v. i.

1. To eat greedily.

2. To make a noise like that of a turkey cock. Prior.

GOBBLE
Gob"ble, n.

Defn: A noise made in the throat.
Ducks and geese . . . set up a discordant gobble. Mrs. Gore.

GOBBLER
Gob"bler, n.

Defn: A turkey cock; a bubbling Jock.

GOBELIN
Gob"e*lin, a.

Defn: Pertaining to tapestry produced in the so-called Gobelin works,
which have been maintained by the French Government since 1667.

GOBEMOUCHE
Gobe`mouche", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Literally, a fly swallower; hence, once who keeps his mouth
open; a boor; a silly and credulous person.

GOBET
Gob"et, n.

Defn: See Gobbet. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GO-BETWEEN
Go"-be*tween`, n.

Defn: An intermediate agent; a broker; a procurer; -- usually in a
disparaging sense. Shak.

GOBIOID
Go"bi*oid, a. Etym: [NL. Gobius + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, the goby, or the genus Gobius.
 -- n.

Defn: A gobioid fish.

GOBLET
Gob"let, n. Etym: [F. gobelet, LL. gobeletus, gobellus; cf. L. cupa
tub, cask. See Cupel.]

Defn: A kind of cup or drinking vessel having a foot or standard, but
without a handle.
We love not loaded boards and goblets crowned. Denham.

GOBLIN
Gob"lin, n. Etym: [OE. gobelin, F. gobelin, LL. gobelinus, fr. Gr.
kobold, E. kobold, cobalt, Armor. gobilin an ignis fatuus, goblin.]

Defn: An evil or mischievous spirit; a playful or malicious elf; a
frightful phantom; a gnome.
To whom the goblin, full of wrath, replied. Milton.

GOBLINE
Gob"line`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: One of the ropes or chains serving as stays for the dolphin
striker or the bowsprit; -- called also gobrope and gaubline.

GOBLINIZE
Gob"lin*ize, v. t.

Defn: To transform into a goblin. [R.] Lowell.

GOBSTICK
Gob"stick`, n.  [Gob mouth + stick.]

1. (Angling)

Defn: A stick or device for removing the hook from a fish's gullet.

He . . . wrenched out the hook with the short wooden stick he called
a "gobstick."
Kipling.

2.  A spoon. [Prov. Eng. or Slang]

GOBY
Go"by, n.; pl. Gobies. Etym: [F. gobie, L. gobius, gobio, Gr.
Gudgeon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of small marine fishes of the genus
Gobius and allied genera.

GO-BY
Go"-by`, n.

Defn: A passing without notice; intentional neglect; thrusting away;
a shifting off; adieu; as, to give a proposal the go-by.
Some songs to which we have given the go-by. Prof. Wilson.

GOCART
Go"cart`, n.

Defn: A framework moving on casters, designed to support children
while learning to walk.

GOD
God, a. & n.

Defn: Good. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GOD
God, n. Etym: [AS. god; akin to OS. & D. god, OHG. got, G. gott,
Icel. gu, go, Sw. & Dan. gud, Goth. gup, prob. orig. a p. p. from a
root appearing in Skr. h, p. p. h, to call upon, invoke, implore.
Goodbye, Gospel, Gossip.]

1. A being conceived of as possessing supernatural power, and to be
propitiated by sacrifice, worship, etc.; a divinity; a deity; an
object of worship; an idol.
He maketh a god, and worshipeth it. Is. xliv. 15.
The race of Israel . . . bowing lowly down To bestial gods. Milton.

2. The Supreme Being; the eternal and infinite Spirit, the Creator,
and the Sovereign of the universe; Jehovah.
God is a Spirit; and they that worship him must worship him in spirit
and in truth. John iv. 24.

3. A person or thing deified and honored as the chief good; an object
of supreme regard.
Whose god is their belly. Phil. iii. 19.

4. Figuratively applied to one who wields great or despotic power.
[R.] Shak. Act of God. (Law) See under Act.
 -- Gallery gods, the occupants of the highest and cheapest gallery
of a theater. [Colloq.] -- God's acre, God's field, a burial place; a
churchyard. See under Acre.
 -- God's house. (a) An almshouse. [Obs.] (b) A church.
 -- God's penny, earnest penny. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
 -- God's Sunday, Easter.

GOD
God, v. t.

Defn: To treat as a god; to idolize. [Obs.] Shak.

GODCHILD
God"child`, n.

Defn: One for whom a person becomes sponsor at baptism, and whom he
promises to see educated as a Christian; a godson or goddaughter. See
Godfather.

GODDAUGHTER
God"daugh`ter, n. Etym: [AS. goddohtor.]

Defn: A female for whom one becomes sponsor at baptism.

GODDESS
God"dess, n.

1. A female god; a divinity, or deity, of the female sex.
When the daughter of Jupiter presented herself among a crowd of
goddesses, she was distinguished by her graceful stature and superior
beauty. Addison.

2. A woman of superior charms or excellence.

GODE
Gode, a. & n.

Defn: Good. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GODELICH
Gode"lich, a.

Defn: Goodly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GO-DEVIL
Go"-dev"il, n. (Mach.)
 (a) A weight which is dropped into a bore, as of an oil well, to
explode a cartridge previously lowered.
 (b) A device, as a loosely fitted plug, which is driven through a
pipe by the pressure of the contents behind the plug to clear away
obstructions.
 (c) A rough sled or dray used for dragging logs, hauling stone, etc.
[Local, U. S.]

GODE-YEAR
Gode"-year, n. Etym: [See Goujere.]

Defn: The venereal disease; -- often used as a mild oath. [Obs.]
Shak.

GODFATHER
God"fa`ther, n. Etym: [AS. godfæder. Cf. Gossip.]

Defn: A man who becomes sponsor for a child at baptism, and makes
himself a surety for its Christian training and instruction.
There shall be for every Male-child to be baptized, when they can be
had, two Godfathers and one Godmother; and for every Female, one
Godfather and two Godmothers; and Parents shall be admitted as
Sponsors, if it is desired. Book of Common Prayer (Prot. Episc. Ch.,
U. S. ).

GODFATHER
God"fa`ther, v. t.

Defn: To act as godfather to; to take under one's fostering care.
[R.] Burke.

GOD-FEARING
God"-fear`ing, a.

Defn: Having a reverential and loving feeling towards God; religious.
A brave good-fearing man. Tennyson.

GODHEAD
God"head, n. Etym: [OE. godhed. See -head, and cf. Godhood.]

1. Godship; deity; divinity; divine nature or essence; godhood.

2. The Deity; God; the Supreme Being.
The imperial throne Of Godhead, fixed for ever. Milton.

3. A god or goddess; a divinity. [Obs.]
Adoring first the genius of the place, The nymphs and native godheads
yet unknown. Dryden.

GODHOOD
God"hood, n. Etym: [God + -hood. Cf. Godhead.]

Defn: Divine nature or essence; deity; godhead.

GODILD
God"ild.

Defn: A corruption of God yield, i. e., God reward or bless. Shak.

GODLESS
God"less, a.

Defn: Having, or acknowledging, no God; without reverence for God;
impious; wicked.
 -- God"less*ly, adv.
 -- God"less*ness, n.

GODLIKE
God"like`, a. Etym: [God + like. Cf. Godly.]

Defn: Resembling or befitting a god or God; divine; hence,
preeminently good; as, godlike virtue.
 -- God"like`ness, n.

GODLILY
God"li*ly, adv.

Defn: Righteously. H. Wharton.

GODLINESS
God"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Godly.]

Defn: Careful observance of, or conformity to, the laws of God; the
state or quality of being godly; piety.
Godliness is profitable unto all things. 1 Tim. iv. 8.

GODLING
God"ling, n.

Defn: A diminutive god. Dryden.

GODLY
God"ly, a. Etym: [God, n. + -ly. Cf. Godlike, Like.]

Defn: Pious; reverencing God, and his character and laws; obedient to
the commands of God from love for, and reverence of, his character;
conformed to God's law; devout; righteous; as, a godly life.
For godly sorrow worketh repentance. 2 Cor. vii. 10.

GODLY
God"ly, adv.

Defn: Piously; devoutly; righteously.
All that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. 2.
Tim. iii. 12.

GODLYHEAD
God"ly*head, n. Etym: [Cf. Goodlyhead.]

Defn: Goodness. [Obs.] Spenser.

GODMOTHER
God"moth`er, n. Etym: [AS. godm.]

Defn: A woman who becomes sponsor for a child in baptism. See
Godfather

GODOWN
Go*down", n. Etym: [Corruption of Malay gadong warehouse.]

Defn: A warehouse. [East Indies]

GODROON
Go*droon", n. Etym: [F. godron a round plait, godroon.] (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament produced by notching or carving a rounded molding.

GODSEND
God"send`, n.

Defn: Something sent by God; an unexpected acquisiton or piece of
good fortune.

GODSHIP
God"ship, n. Etym: [God, n. + -ship.]

Defn: The rank or character of a god; deity; divinity; a god or
goddess.
O'er hills and dales their godships came. Prior.

GODSIB
God"sib, n.

Defn: A gossip. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GODSON
God"son`, n. Etym: [AS. godsunu.]

Defn: A male for whom one has stood sponsor in baptism. See
Godfather.

GODSPEED
God"speed`, n.

Defn: Success; prosperous journeying; -- a contraction of the phrase,
"God speed you." [Written also as two separate words.]
Receive him not into house, neither bid him God speed. 2 John 10.

GODWARD
God"ward, adv.

Defn: Toward God. 2 Cor. iii. 4.

GODWIT
God"wit, n. Etym: [Prob. from AS. g good + wiht creature, wight.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of long-billed, wading birds of the
genus Limosa, and family Tringidæ. The European black-tailed godwit
(Limosa limosa), the American marbled godwit (L. fedoa), the
Hudsonian godwit (L. hæmastica), and others, are valued as game
birds. Called also godwin.

GOEL
Go"el (go"êl), a. Etym: [Cf. Yellow. sq. root49.]

Defn: Yellow. [Obs.] Tusser.

GOELAND
Go`ë`land", n. Etym: [F. goëland.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A white tropical tern (Cygis candida).

GOEMIN
Go`ë`min", n. Etym: [F. goëmon seaweed.]

Defn: A complex mixture of several substances extracted from Irish
moss.

GOEN
Go"en,

Defn: p. p. of Go. [Obs.]

GOER
Go"er, n. Etym: [From Go.]

Defn: One who, or that which, goes; a runner or walker; as:
(a) A foot. [Obs.] Chapman.
(b) A horse, considered in reference to his gait; as, a good goer; a
safe goer.
This antechamber has been filled with comers and goers. Macaulay.

GOETY
Go"e*ty, n. Etym: [Gr. goétie.]

Defn: Invocation of evil spirits; witchcraft. [Obs.] Hallywell.

GOFF
Goff, n. Etym: [Cf. F. goffe ill-made, awkward, It. goffo, Sp. gofo,
Prov. G. goff a blockhead, Gr.

Defn: A silly clown. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

GOFF
Goff, n.

Defn: A game. See Golf. [Scot.] Halliwell.

GOFFER
Gof"fer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Goffered; p. pr. & vb. n. Goffering.]
Etym: [See Gauffer.]

Defn: To plait, flute, or crimp. See Gauffer. Clarke.

GOG
Gog, n. Etym: [Cf. agog, F. gogue sprightliness, also W. gogi to
agitate, shake.]

Defn: Haste; ardent desire to go. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

GOGGLE
Gog"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Goggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Goggling.]
Etym: [Cf. Ir. & Gael. gog a nod, slight motion.]

Defn: To roll the eyes; to stare.
And wink and goggle like an owl. Hudibras.

GOGGLE
Gog"gle, a.

Defn: Full and rolling, or staring; -- said of the eyes.
The long, sallow vissage, the goggle eyes. Sir W. Scott.

GOGGLE
Gog"gle, n. Etym: [See Goggle, v. i.]

1. A strained or affected rolling of the eye.

2. pl.
(a) A kind of spectacles with short, projecting eye tubes, in the
front end of which are fixed plain glasses for protecting the eyes
from cold, dust, etc.
(b) Colored glasses for relief from intense light.
(c) A disk with a small aperture, to direct the sight forward, and
cure squinting.
(d) Any screen or cover for the eyes, with or without a slit for
seeing through.

GOGGLED
Gog"gled, a.

Defn: Prominent; staring, as the eye.

GOGGLE-EYE
Gog"gle-eye`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of two or more species of American fresh-water fishes of the
family Centrarchidæ, esp. Chænobryttus antistius, of Lake Michigan
and adjacent waters, and Ambloplites rupestris, of the Great Lakes
and Mississippi Valley; -- so called from their prominent eyes.
(b) The goggler.

GOGGLE-EYED
Gog"gle-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having prominent and distorted or rolling eyes. Ascham.

GOGGLER
Gog"gler, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carangoid oceanic fish (Trachurops crumenophthalmus), having
very large and prominent eyes; -- called also goggle-eye, big-eyed
scad, and cicharra.

GOGLET
Gog"let, n. Etym: [Pg. gorgoleta.]

Defn: See Gurglet.

GOING
Go"ing, n.

1. The act of moving in any manner; traveling; as, the going is bad.

2. Departure. Milton.

3. Pregnancy; gestation; childbearing. Crew.

4. pl.

Defn: Course of life; behavior; doings; ways.
His eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings. Job
xxxiv. 21.
Going barrel. (Horology) (a) A barrel containing the mainspring, and
having teeth on its periphery to drive the train. (b) A device for
maintaining a force to drive the train while the timepiece is being
wound up.
 -- Going forth. (Script.) (a) Outlet; way of exit. "Every going
forth of the sanctuary." Ezek. xliv. 5. (b) A limit; a border. "The
going forth thereof shall be from the south to Kadesh-barnea." Num.
xxxiv. 4.
 -- Going out, or Goings out. (Script.) (a) The utmost extremity or
limit. "The border shall go down to Jordan, and the goings out of it
shall be at the salt sea." Num. xxxiv. 12. (b) Departure or
journeying. "And Moses wrote their goings out according to their
journeys." Num. xxxiii. 2.
 -- Goings on, behavior; actions; conduct; -- usually in a bad sense.

GOITER; GOITRE
Goi"ter Goi"tre, n. Etym: [F. goître, L. guttur throat, cf. tumidum
guttur goiter, gutturosus goitered. See Guttural.] (Med.)

Defn: An enlargement of the thyroid gland, on the anterior part of
the neck; bronchocele. It is frequently associated with cretinism,
and is most common in mountainous regions, especially in certain
parts of Switzerland.

GOITERED; GOITRED
Goi"tered, Goi"tred, a.

Defn: Affected with goiter.

GOITROUS
Goi"trous, a. Etym: [F. goîtreux, L. gutturosus. See Goiter.]

Defn: Pertaining to the goiter; affected with the goiter; of the
nature of goiter or bronchocele.
Let me not be understood as insinuating that the inhabitants in
general are either goitrous or idiots. W. Coxe.

GOLD; GOLDE; GOOLDE
Gold, Golde, Goolde, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An old English name of some yellow flower, -- the marigold
(Calendula), according to Dr. Prior, but in Chaucer perhaps the
turnsole.

GOLD
Gold, n. Etym: [AS. gold; akin to D. goud, OS. & G. gold, Icel. gull,
Sw. & Dan. guld, Goth. gulp, Russ. & OSlav. zlato; prob. akin to E.
yellow. Yellow, and cf. Gild, v. t.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A metallic element, constituting the most precious metal used
as a common commercial medium of exchange. It has a characteristic
yellow color, is one of the heaviest substances known (specific
gravity 19.32), is soft, and very malleable and ductile. It is quite
unalterable by heat, moisture, and most corrosive agents, and
therefore well suited for its use in coin and jewelry. Symbol Au
(Aurum). Atomic weight 196.7.

Note: Native gold contains usually eight to ten per cent of silver,
but often much more. As the amount of silver increases, the color
becomes whiter and the specific gravity lower. Gold is very widely
disseminated, as in the sands of many rivers, but in very small
quantity. It usually occurs in quartz veins (gold quartz), in slate
and metamorphic rocks, or in sand and alluvial soil, resulting from
the disintegration of such rocks. It also occurs associated with
other metallic substances, as in auriferous pyrites, and is combined
with tellurium in the minerals petzite, calaverite, sylvanite, etc.
Pure gold is too soft for ordinary use, and is hardened by alloying
with silver and copper, the latter giving a characteristic reddish
tinge. [See Carat.] Gold also finds use in gold foil, in the pigment
purple of Cassius, and in the chloride, which is used as a toning
agent in photography.

2. Money; riches; wealth.
For me, the gold of France did not seduce. Shak.

3. A yellow color, like that of the metal; as, a flower tipped with
gold.

4. Figuratively, something precious or pure; as, hearts of gold.
Shak. Age of gold. See Golden age, under Golden.
 -- Dutch gold, Fool's gold, Gold dust, etc. See under Dutch, Dust,
etc.
 -- Gold amalgam, a mineral, found in Columbia and California,
composed of gold and mercury.
 -- Gold beater, one whose occupation is to beat gold into gold leaf.
 -- Gold beater's skin, the prepared outside membrane of the large
intestine of the ox, used for separating the leaves of metal during
the process of gold-beating.
 -- Gold beetle (Zoöl.), any small gold-colored beetle of the family
Chrysomelidæ; -- called also golden beetle.
 -- Gold blocking, printing with gold leaf, as upon a book cover, by
means of an engraved block. Knight.
 -- Gold cloth. See Cloth of gold, under Cloth.
 -- Gold Coast, a part of the coast of Guinea, in West Africa.
 -- Gold cradle. (Mining) See Cradle, n., 7.
 -- Gold diggings, the places, or region, where gold is found by
digging in sand and gravel from which it is separated by washing.
 -- Gold end, a fragment of broken gold or jewelry.
 -- Gold-end man. (a) A buyer of old gold or jewelry. (b) A
goldsmith's apprentice. (c) An itinerant jeweler. "I know him not: he
looks like a gold-end man." B. Jonson.
 -- Gold fever, a popular mania for gold hunting.
 -- Gold field, a region in which are deposits of gold.
 -- Gold finder. (a) One who finds gold. (b) One who empties privies.
[Obs. & Low] Swift.
 -- Gold flower, a composite plant with dry and persistent yellow
radiating involucral scales, the Helichrysum Stoechas of Southern
Europe. There are many South African species of the same genus.
 -- Gold foil, thin sheets of gold, as used by dentists and others.
See Gold leaf.
 -- Gold knobs or knoppes (Bot.), buttercups.
 -- Gold lace, a kind of lace, made of gold thread.
 -- Gold latten, a thin plate of gold or gilded metal.
 -- Gold leaf, gold beaten into a film of extreme thinness, and used
for gilding, etc. It is much thinner than gold foil.
 -- Gold lode (Mining), a gold vein.
 -- Gold mine, a place where gold is obtained by mining operations,
as distinguished from diggings, where it is extracted by washing. Cf.
Gold diggings (above).
 -- Gold nugget, a lump of gold as found in gold mining or digging; -
- called also a pepito.
 -- Gold paint. See Gold shell.
 -- Gold or Golden, pheasant. (Zoöl.) See under Pheasant.
 -- Gold plate, a general name for vessels, dishes, cups, spoons,
etc., made of gold.
 -- Gold of pleasure. Etym: [Name perhaps translated from Sp. oro-de-
alegria.] (Bot.) A plant of the genus Camelina, bearing yellow
flowers. C. sativa is sometimes cultivated for the oil of its seeds.
 -- Gold shell. (a) A composition of powdered gold or gold leaf,
ground up with gum water and spread on shells, for artists' use; --
called also gold paint. (b) (Zoöl.) A bivalve shell (Anomia glabra)
of the Atlantic coast; -- called also jingle shell and silver shell.
See Anomia.
 -- Gold size, a composition used in applying gold leaf.
 -- Gold solder, a kind of solder, often containing twelve parts of
gold, two of silver, and four of copper.
 -- Gold stick, the colonel of a regiment of English lifeguards, who
attends his sovereign on state occasions; -- so called from the gilt
rod presented to him by the sovereign when he receives his commission
as colonel of the regiment. [Eng.] -- Gold thread. (a) A thread
formed by twisting flatted gold over a thread of silk, with a wheel
and iron bobbins; spun gold. Ure. (b) (Bot.) A small evergreen plant
(Coptis trifolia), so called from its fibrous yellow roots. It is
common in marshy places in the United States.
 -- Gold tissue, a tissue fabric interwoven with gold thread.
 -- Gold tooling, the fixing of gold leaf by a hot tool upon book
covers, or the ornamental impression so made.
 -- Gold washings, places where gold found in gravel is separated
from lighter material by washing.
 -- Gold worm, a glowworm. [Obs.] -- Jeweler's gold, an alloy
containing three parts of gold to one of copper.
 -- Mosaic gold. See under Mosaic.

GOLD-BEATEN
Gold"-beat`en, a.

Defn: Gilded. [Obs.]

GOLD-BEATING
Gold"-beat`ing, n.

Defn: The art or process of reducing gold to extremely thin leaves,
by beating with a hammer. Ure.

GOLD-BOUND
Gold"-bound`, a.

Defn: Encompassed with gold.

GOLDCREST
Gold"crest`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European golden-crested kinglet (Regulus cristatus, or R.
regulus); -- called also golden-crested wren, and golden wren. The
name is also sometimes applied to the American golden-crested
kinglet. See Kinglet.

GOLDCUP
Gold"cup`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The cuckoobud.

GOLDEN
Gold"en, a. Etym: [OE. golden; cf. OE. gulden, AS. gylden, from gold.
See Gold, and cf. Guilder.]

1. Made of gold; consisting of gold.

2. Having the color of gold; as, the golden grain.

3. Very precious; highly valuable; excellent; eminently auspicious;
as, golden opinions. Golden age. (a) The fabulous age of primeval
simplicity and purity of manners in rural employments, followed by
the silver, bronze, and iron ages. Dryden. (b) (Roman Literature) The
best part (B. C. 81 -- A. D. 14) of the classical period of Latinity;
the time when Cicero, Cæsar, Virgil, etc., wrote. Hence: (c) That
period in the history of a literature, etc., when it flourishes in
its greatest purity or attains its greatest glory; as, the
Elizabethan age has been considered the golden age of English
literature.
 -- Golden balls, three gilt balls used as a sign of a pawnbroker's
office or shop; -- originally taken from the coat of arms of
Lombardy, the first money lenders in London having been Lombards.
 -- Golden bull. See under Bull, an edict.
 -- Golden chain (Bot.), the shrub Cytisus Laburnum, so named from
its long clusters of yellow blossoms.
 -- Golden club (Bot.), an aquatic plant (Orontium aquaticum),
bearing a thick spike of minute yellow flowers.
 -- Golden cup (Bot.), the buttercup.
 -- Golden eagle (Zoöl.), a large and powerful eagle (Aquila
Chrysaëtos) inhabiting Europe, Asia, and North America. It is so
called from the brownish yellow tips of the feathers on the head and
neck. A dark variety is called the royal eagle; the young in the
second year is the ring-tailed eagle.
 -- Golden fleece. (a) (Mythol.) The fleece of gold fabled to have
been taken from the ram that bore Phryxus through the air to Colchis,
and in quest of which Jason undertook the Argonautic expedition. (b)
(Her.) An order of knighthood instituted in 1429 by Philip the Good,
Duke of Burgundy; -- called also Toison d'Or.
 -- Golden grease, a bribe; a fee. [Slang] -- Golden hair (Bot.), a
South African shrubby composite plant with golden yellow flowers, the
Chrysocoma Coma-aurea.
 -- Golden Horde (Hist.), a tribe of Mongolian Tartars who overran
and settled in Southern Russia early in the 18th century.
 -- Golden Legend, a hagiology (the "Aurea Legenda") written by James
de Voragine, Archbishop of Genoa, in the 13th century, translated and
printed by Caxton in 1483, and partially paraphrased by Longfellow in
a poem thus entitled.
 -- Golden marcasite tin. [Obs.] -- Golden mean, the way of wisdom
and safety between extremes; sufficiency without excess; moderation.
Angels guard him in the golden mean. Pope.
-- Golden mole (Zoöl), one of several South African Insectivora of
the family Chrysochloridæ, resembling moles in form and habits. The
fur is tinted with green, purple, and gold.
 -- Golden number (Chronol.), a number showing the year of the lunar
or Metonic cycle. It is reckoned from 1 to 19, and is so called from
having formerly been written in the calendar in gold.
 -- Golden oriole. (Zoöl.) See Oriole.
 -- Golden pheasant. See under Pheasant.
 -- Golden pippin, a kind of apple, of a bright yellow color.
 -- Golden plover (Zoöl.), one of several species of plovers, of the
genus Charadrius, esp. the European (C. apricarius, or pluvialis; --
called also yellow, black-breasted hill, and whistling, plover. The
common American species (C. dominicus) is also called frostbird, and
bullhead.
 -- Golden robin. (Zoöl.) See Baltimore oriole, in Vocab.
 -- Golden rose (R. C. Ch.), a gold or gilded rose blessed by the
pope on the fourth Sunday in Lent, and sent to some church or person
in recognition of special services rendered to the Holy See.
 -- Golden rule. (a) The rule of doing as we would have others do to
us. Cf. Luke vi. 31. (b) The rule of proportion, or rule of three.
 -- Golden samphire (Bot.), a composite plant (Inula crithmoides),
found on the seashore of Europe.
 -- Golden saxifrage (Bot.), a low herb with yellow flowers
(Chrysosplenium oppositifolium), blossoming in wet places in early
spring.
 -- Golden seal (Bot.), a perennial ranunculaceous herb (Hydrastis
Canadensis), with a thick knotted rootstock and large rounded leaves.
 -- Golden sulphide, or sulphuret, of antimony (Chem.), the
pentasulphide of antimony, a golden or orange yellow powder.
 -- Golden warbler (Zoöl.), a common American wood warbler (Dendroica
æstiva); -- called also blue-eyed yellow warbler, garden warbler, and
summer yellow bird.
 -- Golden wasp (Zoöl.), a bright-colored hymenopterous insect, of
the family Chrysididæ. The colors are golden, blue, and green.
 -- Golden wedding. See under Wedding.

GOLDEN-EYE
Gold"en-eye`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A duck (Glaucionetta clangula), found in Northern Europe, Asia,
and America. The American variety (var. Americana) is larger. Called
whistler, garrot, gowdy, pied widgeon, whiteside, curre, and doucker.
Barrow's golden-eye of America (G. Islandica) is less common.

GOLDENLY
Gold"en*ly, adv.

Defn: In golden terms or a golden manner; splendidly; delightfully.
[Obs.] Shak.

GOLDEN-ROD
Gold"en-rod`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tall herb (Solidago Virga-aurea), bearing yellow flowers in a
graceful elongated cluster. The name is common to all the species of
the genus Solidago. Golden-rod tree (Bot.), a shrub (Bosea
Yervamora), a native of the Canary Isles.

GOLDEN STATE
Gold"en State.

Defn: California; -- a nickname alluding to its rich gold deposits.

GOLDFINCH
Gold"finch`, n. Etym: [AS. goldfinc. See Gold, and Finch.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A beautiful bright-colored European finch (Carduelis elegans).
The name refers to the large patch of yellow on the wings. The front
of the head and throat are bright red; the nape, with part of the
wings and tail, black; -- called also goldspink, goldie, fool's coat,
drawbird, draw-water, thistle finch, and sweet William.
(b) The yellow-hammer.
(c) A small American finch (Spinus tristis); the thistle bird.

Note: The name is also applied to other yellow finches, esp. to
several additional American species of Spinus.

GOLDFINNY
Gold"fin`ny, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of two or more species of European labroid fishes
(Crenilabrus melops, and Ctenolabrus rupestris); -- called also
goldsinny, and goldney.

GOLDFISH
Gold"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small domesticated cyprinoid fish (Carassius auratus); -- so
named from its color. It is native of China, and is said to have been
introduced into Europe in 1691. It is often kept as an ornament, in
small ponds or glass globes. Many varieties are known. Called also
golden fish, and golden carp. See Telescope fish, under Telescope.
(b) A California marine fish of an orange or red color; the
garibaldi.

GOLD-HAMMER
Gold"-ham`mer, n.

Defn: The yellow-hammer.

GOLDIE
Gold"ie, n. Etym: [From Gold.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The European goldfinch.
(b) The yellow-hammer.

GOLDILOCKS
Gold"i*locks`, n.

Defn: Same as Goldylocks.

GOLDIN; GOLDING
Gold"in, Gold"ing, n. (Bot.) Etym: [From the golden color of the
blossoms.]

Defn: A conspicuous yellow flower, commonly the corn marigold
(Chrysanthemum segetum). [This word is variously corrupted into
gouland, gools, gowan, etc.]

GOLDLESS
Gold"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of gold.

GOLDNEY
Gold"ney, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Gilthead.

GOLDSEED
Gold"seed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Dog's-tail grass.

GOLDSINNY
Gold"sin`ny, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Goldfinny.

GOLDSMITH
Gold"smith`, n. Etym: [AS. goldsmiGold., and Smith.]

1. An artisan who manufactures vessels and ornaments, etc., of gold.

2. A banker. [Obs.]

Note: The goldsmiths of London formerly received money on deposit
because they were prepared to keep it safely. Goldsmith beetle
(Zoöl.), a large, bright yellow, American beetle (Cotalpa lanigera),
of the family Scarabæidæ

GOLDTIT
Gold"tit`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Verdin.

GOLDYLOCKS
Gold"y*locks`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of several species of the genus Chrysocoma; -- so
called from the tufts of yellow flowers which terminate the stems;
also, the Ranunculus auricomus, a kind of buttercup.

GOLET
Go"let, n.

Defn: The gullet. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GOLET
Go"let, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A California trout. See Malma.

GOLF
Golf, n. Etym: [D. kolf club or bat, also a Dutch game played in an
inclosed area with clubs and balls; akin to G. kolben club, but end,
Icel. k tongue of a bell. bolt, Sw. kolf bolt, dart, but end, Dan.
kolv bolt, arrow. Cf. Club, Globe.]

Defn: A game played with a small ball and a bat or club crooked at
the lower end. He who drives the ball into each of a series of small
holes in the ground and brings it into the last hole with the fewest
strokes is the winner. [Scot.] Strutt.

GOLFER
Golf"er, n.

Defn: One who plays golf. [Scot.]

GOLGOTHA
Gol"go*tha, n.

Defn: Calvary. See the Note under Calvary.

GOLIARD
Gol"iard, n. Etym: [From OF. goliart glutton, buffoon, riotous
student, Goliard, LL. goliardus, prob. fr. L. gula throat. Cf.
Gules.]

Defn: A buffoon in the Middle Ages, who attended rich men's tables to
make sport for the guests by ribald stories and songs.

GOLIARDERY
Gol"iard*er*y, n.

Defn: The satirical or ribald poetry of the Goliards. Milman.

GOLIATH BEETLE
Go*li"ath bee"tle. Etym: [From Goliath, the Philistine giant.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Goliathus, a genus of very large and handsome
African beetles.

GOLL
Goll, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A hand, paw, or claw. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. B. Jonson.

GOLOE-SHOE
Go*loe"-shoe`, n.

Defn: A galoche.

GOLORE
Go*lore", n.

Defn: See Galore.

GOLOSHE
Go*loshe", n.

Defn: See Galoche.

GOLTSCHUT
Golt"schut, n.

1. A small ingot of gold.

2. A silver ingot, used in Japan as money.

GOLYARDEYS
Gol"yard*eys, n.

Defn: A buffoon. See Gollard. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GOMAN
Go"man, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. good man; but cf. also AS. gumman a man,
OHG. gomman man, husband.]

Defn: A husband; a master of a family. [Obs.]

GOMARIST; GOMARITE
Go"mar*ist, Go"mar*ite, n. (Eccl.-Hist.)

Defn: One of the followers of Francis Gomar or Gomarus, a Dutch
disciple of Calvin in the 17th century, who strongly opposed the
Arminians.

GOMBO
Gom"bo, n.

Defn: See Gumbo.

GOME
Gome, n. Etym: [AS. guma; akin to Goth. guma, L. homo. See
Bridegroom.]

Defn: A man. [Obs.] P. Plowman.

GOME
Gome, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. gormr ooze, mud.]

Defn: The black grease on the axle of a cart or wagon wheel; --
called also gorm. See Gorm. [Prov. Eng.]

GOMER
Go"mer, n.

Defn: A Hebrew measure. See Homer.

GOMER
Go"mer, n. (Gun.)

Defn: A conical chamber at the breech of the bore in heavy ordnance,
especially in mortars; -- named after the inventor.

GOMMELIN
Gom"me*lin, n. Etym: [F. gommeline, from gomme gum.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Dextrin.

GOMPHIASIS
Gom*phi"a*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A disease of the teeth, which causes them to loosen and fall
out of their sockets.

GOMPHOSIS
Gom*pho"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. gomphose.] (Anat.)

Defn: A form of union or immovable articulation where a hard part is
received into the cavity of a bone, as the teeth into the jaws.

GOMUTI
Go*mu"ti, n. Etym: [Malayan gumuti.]

Defn: A black, fibrous substance resembling horsehair, obtained from
the leafstalks of two kinds of palms, Metroxylon Sagu, and Arenga
saccharifera, of the Indian islands. It is used for making cordage.
Called also ejoo.

GON
Gon,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Go. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GONAD
Gon"ad, n.; pl. Gonads. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the masses of generative tissue primitively alike in
both sexes, but giving rise to either an ovary or a testis; a
generative gland; a germ gland. Wiedersheim.

GONAKIE
Go"na*kie, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An African timber tree (Acacia Adansonii).

GONANGIUM
Go`nan*gi"um, n.; pl. L. Gonangia, E. Gonangiums. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Gonotheca.

GONDOLA
Gon"do*la, n. Etym: [It., dim. of gonda a gondola; cf. LL. gandeia a
kind of boat, Gr. gondole gondola, cup.]

1. A long, narrow boat with a high prow and stern, used in the canals
of Venice. A gondola is usually propelled by one or two oarsmen who
stand facing the prow, or by poling. A gondola for passengers has a
small open cabin amidships, for their protection against the sun or
rain. A sumptuary law of Venice required that gondolas should be
painted black, and they are customarily so painted now.

2. A flat-bottomed boat for freight. [U. S.]

3. A long platform car, either having no sides or with very low
sides, used on railroads. [U. S.]

GONDOLET
Gon"do*let, n. Etym: [It. gondoletta, dim. of gondola.]

Defn: A small gondola. T. Moore.

GONDOLIER
Gon`do*lier", n. Etym: [It. gondoliere: cf. F. gondolier.]

Defn: A man who rows a gondola.

GONE
Gone,

Defn: p. p. of Go.

GONENESS
Gone"ness, n.

Defn: A state of exhaustion; faintness, especially as resulting from
hunger. [Colloq. U. S.]

GONFALON; GONFANON
Gon"fa*lon, Gon"fa*non, n. Etym: [OE. gonfanoun, OF. gonfanon, F.
gonfalon, the same word as F. confalon, name of a religious
brotherhood, fr. OHG. gundfano war flag; gund war (used in comp., and
akin to AS. gu\'eb) + fano cloth, flag; akin to E. vane; cf. AS.
gu\'ebfana. See Vane, and cf. Confalon.]

1. The ensign or standard in use by certain princes or states, such
as the mediæval republics of Italy, and in more recent times by the
pope.

2. A name popularly given to any flag which hangs from a crosspiece
or frame instead of from the staff or the mast itself.
Standards and gonfalons, 'twixt van and rear, Stream in the air.
Milton.

GONFALONIER
Gon`fa*lon*ier", n. Etym: [F. gonfalonier: cf. It. gonfaloniere.]

Defn: He who bears the gonfalon; a standard bearer; as:
(a) An officer at Rome who bears the standard of the Church.
(b) The chief magistrate of any one of several republics in mediæveal
Italy.
(c) A Turkish general, and standard keeper.

GONG
Gong, n. Etym: [AS. gong, gang, a going, passage, drain. See Gang.]

Defn: A privy or jakes. [Obs.] Chaucer. Gong farmer, Gong man, a
cleaner of privies. [Obs.]

GONG
Gong, n.

1. Etym: [Malayan (Jav.) gong.]

Defn: An instrument, first used in the East, made of an alloy of
copper and tin, shaped like a disk with upturned rim, and producing,
when struck, a harsh and resounding noise.
O'er distant deserts sounds the Tartar gong. Longfellow.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A flat saucerlike bell, rung by striking it with a small hammer
which is connected with it by various mechanical devices; a
stationary bell, used to sound calls or alarms; -- called also gong
bell. Gong metal, an alloy (78 parts of copper, 22 of tin), from
which Oriental gongs are made.

GONGORISM
Gon"go*rism, n.

Defn: An affected elegance or euphuism of style, for which the
Spanish poet Gongora y Argote (1561-1627), among others of his time,
was noted.

Gongorism, that curious disease of euphuism, that broke out
simultaneously in Italy, England, and Spain.
The Critic.

The Renaissance riots itself away in Marinism, Gongorism, Euphuism,
and the affectations of the Hôtel Rambouillet.
J. A. Symonds.

GONIATITE
Go"ni*a*tite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: One of an extinct genus of fossil cephalopods, allied to the
Ammonites. The earliest forms are found in the Devonian formation,
the latest, in the Triassic.

GONIDIAL
Go*nid"i*al, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia.

GONIDIAL
Go*nid"i*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the angles of the mouth; as, a gonidial
groove of an actinian.

GONIDIUM
Go*nid"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A special groove or furrow at one or both angles of the mouth
of many Anthozoa.

GONIDIUM
Go*nid"i*um, n.; pl. Gonidia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A component cell of the yellowish green layer in certain
lichens.

GONIMIA
Go*nim"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Bluish green granules which occur in certain lichens, as
Collema, Peltigera, etc., and which replace the more usual gonidia.

GONIMOUS
Gon"i*mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia or gonimia, as that part
of a lichen which contains the green or chlorophyll-bearing cells.

GONIOMETER
Go`ni*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. goniomètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring angles, especially the angles of
crystals, or the inclination of planes. Contact, or Hand, goniometer,
a goniometer having two movable arms (ab, cd), between which (at ab)
the faces of the crystals are placed. These arms turn about a fixed
point, which is the center of the graduated circle or semicircle upon
which the angle is read off.
 -- Reflecting goniometer, an instrument for measuring the angles of
crystals by determining through what angular space the crystal must
be turned so that two rays reflected from two surfaces successively
shall have the same direction; -- called also Wollaston's goniometer,
from the inventor.

GONIOMETRIC; GONIOMETRICAL
Go`ni*o*met"ric, Go`ni*o*met"ric*al (, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or determined by means of, a goniometer;
trigonometric.

GONIOMETRY
Go`ni*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. goniométrie.] (Math.)

Defn: The art of measuring angles; trigonometry.

GONOBLASTID
Gon`o*blas"tid, n. Etym: [See Gonoblastidium.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A reproductive bud of a hydroid; a simple gonophore.

GONOBLASTIDIUM
Gon`o*blas*tid"i*um, n.; pl. Gonoblastidia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A blastostyle.

GONOCALYX
Gon`o*ca"lyx, n. Etym: [Gr. calyx,] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bell of a sessile gonozooid.

GONOCHORISM
Gon`o*cho"rism, n. Etym: [Gr.
(a) Separation of the sexes in different individuals; -- opposed to
hermaphroditism.
(b) In ontogony, differentiation of male and female individuals from
embryos having the same rudimentary sexual organs.
(c) In phylogeny, the evolution of distinct sexes in species
previously hermaphrodite or sexless.

GONOCOCCUS
Gon`o*coc"cus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. coccus.] (Med.)

Defn: A vegetable microörganism of the genus Micrococcus, occurring
in the secretion in gonorrhea. It is believed by some to constitute
the cause of this disease.

GONOPH
Gon"oph, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. Heb. gannabh thief.]

Defn: A pickpocket or thief. [Eng. Slang] Dickens.

GONOPHORE
Gon"o*phore, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sexual zooid produced as a medusoid bud upon a hydroid,
sometimes becoming a free hydromedusa, sometimes remaining attached.
See Hydroidea, and Illusts. of Athecata, Campanularian, and Gonosome.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A lengthened receptacle, bearing the stamens and carpels in a
conspicuous manner.

GONORRHEA; GONORRHOEA
Gon`or*rhe"a, Gon`or*rhoe"a, n. Etym: [L. gonorrhoea, Gr. gonorrhée.]
(Med.)

Defn: A contagious inflammatory disease of the genitourinary tract,
affecting especially the urethra and vagina, and characterized by a
mucopurulent discharge, pain in urination, and chordee; clap.

GONORRHEAL; GONORRHOEAL
Gon`or*rhe"al, Gon`or*rhoe"al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to gonorrhea; as, gonorrheal rheumatism.

GONOSOME
Gon"o*some, n. Etym: [Gr. -some body.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The reproductive zooids of a hydroid colony, collectively.

GONOTHECA
Gon`o*the"ca, n.; pl. Gonothec. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A capsule developed on certain hydroids (Thecaphora), inclosing
the blastostyle upon which the medusoid buds or gonophores are
developed; -- called also gonangium, and teleophore. See Hydroidea,
and Illust. of Campanularian.

GONOZOOID
Gon`o*zo"oid, n. Etym: [Gr. zooid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sexual zooid, or medusoid bud of a hydroid; a gonophore. See
Hydroidea, and Illust. of Campanularian.

GONYDIAL
Go*nyd"i*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the gonys of a bird's beak.

GONYS
Go"nys, n. Etym: [Cf. Genys.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The keel or lower outline of a bird's bill, so far as the
mandibular rami are united.

GOOBER
Goo"ber, n.

Defn: A peanut. [Southern U. S.]

GOOD
Good, a. [Compar. Better; superl. Best. These words, though used as
the comparative and superlative of good, are from a different root.]
Etym: [AS. God, akin to D. goed, OS. god, OHG. guot, G. gut, Icel.
goedhr, Sw. & Dan. god, Goth. gods; prob. orig., fitting, belonging
together, and akin to E. gather. sq. root29 Cf. Gather.]

1. Possessing desirable qualities; adapted to answer the end
designed; promoting success, welfare, or happiness; serviceable;
useful; fit; excellent; admirable; commendable; not bad, corrupt,
evil, noxious, offensive, or troublesome, etc.
And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very
good. Gen. i. 31.
Good company, good wine, good welcome. Shak.

2. Possessing moral excellence or virtue; virtuous; pious; religious;
-- said of persons or actions.
In all things showing thyself a pattern of good works. Tit. ii. 7.

3. Kind; benevolent; humane; merciful; gracious; polite; propitious;
friendly; well-disposed; -- often followed by to or toward, also
formerly by unto.
The men were very good unto us. 1 Sam. xxv. 15.

4. Serviceable; suited; adapted; suitable; of use; to be relied upon;
-- followed especially by for.
All quality that is good for anything is founded originally in merit.
Collier.

5. Clever; skillful; dexterous; ready; handy; -- followed especially
by at.
He . . . is a good workman; a very good tailor. Shak.
Those are generally good at flattering who are good for nothing else.
South.

6. Adequate; sufficient; competent; sound; not fallacious; valid; in
a commercial sense, to be depended on for the discharge of
obligations incurred; having pecuniary ability; of unimpaired credit.
My reasons are both good and weighty. Shak.
My meaning in saying he is a good man is . . . that he is sufficient
. . . I think I may take his bond. Shak.

7. Real; actual; serious; as in the phrases in good earnest; in good
sooth.
Love no man in good earnest. Shak.

8. Not small, insignificant, or of no account; considerable; esp., in
the phrases a good deal, a good way, a good degree, a good share or
part, etc.

9. Not lacking or deficient; full; complete.
Good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over.
Luke vi. 38.

10. Not blemished or impeached; fair; honorable; unsullied; as in the
phrases a good name, a good report, good repute, etc.
A good name is better than precious ointment. Eccl. vii. 1.
As good as. See under As.
 -- For good, or For good and all, completely and finally; fully;
truly.
The good woman never died after this, till she came to die for good
and all. L'Estrange.
-- Good breeding, polite or polished manners, formed by education; a
polite education.
Distinguished by good humor and good breeding. Macaulay.
-- Good cheap, literally, good bargain; reasonably cheap.
 -- Good consideration (Law). (a) A consideration of blood or of
natural love and affection. Blackstone. (b) A valuable consideration,
or one which will sustain a contract.
 -- Good fellow, a person of companionable qualities. [Familiar] --
Good folk, or Good people, fairies; brownies; pixies, etc. [Colloq.
Eng. & Scot.] -- Good for nothing. (a) Of no value; useless;
worthless. (b) Used substantively, an idle, worthless person.
My father always said I was born to be a good for nothing. Ld.
Lytton.
-- Good Friday, the Friday of Holy Week, kept in some churches as a
fast, in memoory of our Savior's passion or suffering; the
anniversary of the crucifixion.
 -- Good humor, or Good-humor, a cheerful or pleasant temper or state
of mind.
 -- Good nature, or Good-nature, habitual kindness or mildness of
temper or disposition; amiability; state of being in good humor.
The good nature and generosity which belonged to his character.
Macaulay.
The young count's good nature and easy persuadability were among his
best characteristics. Hawthorne.
-- Good people. See Good folk (above).
 -- Good speed, good luck; good success; godspeed; -- an old form of
wishing success. See Speed.
 -- Good turn, an act of kidness; a favor.
 -- Good will. (a) Benevolence; well wishing; kindly feeling. (b)
(Law) The custom of any trade or business; the tendency or
inclination of persons, old customers and others, to resort to an
established place of business; the advantage accruing from tendency
or inclination.
The good will of a trade is nothing more than the probability that
the old customers will resort to the old place. Lord Eldon.
-- In good time. (a) Promptly; punctually; opportunely; not too soon
nor too late. (b) (Mus.) Correctly; in proper time.
 -- To hold good, to remain true or valid; to be operative; to remain
in force or effect; as, his promise holds good; the condition still
holds good.
 -- To make good, to fulfill; to establish; to maintain; to supply (a
defect or deficiency); to indemmify; to prove or verify (an
accusation); to prove to be blameless; to clear; to vindicate.
Each word made good and true. Shak.
Of no power to make his wishes good. Shak.
I . . . would by combat make her good. Shak.
Convenient numbers to make good the city. Shak.
-- To think good, to approve; to be pleased or satisfied with; to
consider expedient or proper.
If ye think good, give me my price; and if not, forbear. Zech. xi.
12.

Note: Good, in the sense of wishing well, is much used in greeting
and leave-taking; as, good day, good night, good evening, good
morning, etc.

GOOD
Good, n.

1. That which possesses desirable qualities, promotes success,
welfare, or happiness, is serviceable, fit, excellent, kind,
benevolent, etc.; -- opposed to evil.
There be many that say, Who will show us any good Ps. iv. 6.

2. Advancement of interest or happiness; welfare; prosperity;
advantage; benefit; -- opposed to harm, etc.
The good of the whole community can be promoted only by advancing the
good of each of the members composing it. Jay.

3. pl.

Defn: Wares; commodities; chattels; -- formerly used in the singular
in a collective sense. In law, a comprehensive name for almost all
personal property as distinguished from land or real property.
Wharton.
He hath made us spend much good. Chaucer.
Thy lands and goods Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate Unto the
state of Venice. Shak.
Dress goods, Dry goods, etc. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Goods engine, a freight locomotive. [Eng.] -- Goods train, a
freight train. [Eng.] -- Goods wagon, a freight car [Eng.] See the
Note under Car, n., 2.

GOOD
Good, adv.

Defn: Well, -- especially in the phrase as good, with a following as
expressed or implied; equally well with as much advantage or as
little harm as possible.
As good almost kill a man as kill a good book. Milton.
As good as, in effect; virtually; the same as.
They who counsel ye to such a suppressing, do as good as bid ye
suppress yourselves. Milton.

GOOD
Good, v. t.

1. To make good; to turn to good. [Obs.]

2. To manure; to improve. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

GOOD-BY; GOOD-BYE
Good`-by", Good`-bye", n. or interj. Etym: [A contraction of God be
with ye (God be wî ye, God bw' ye, God bwye).]

Defn: Farewell; a form of address used at parting. See the last Note
under By, prep. Shak.

GOOD-DEN
Good`-den", interj. Etym: [Corrupt. of good e'en, for good evening.]

Defn: A form of salutation. [Obs.] Shak.

GOOD-FELLOWSHIP
Good`-fel"low*ship, n.

Defn: Agreeable companionship; companionableness.

GOODGEON
Good"geon, n. (Naut.)

Defn: Same as Gudgeon, 5.

GOOD-HUMORED
Good`-hu"mored, a.

Defn: Having a cheerful spirit and demeanor; good-tempered. See Good-
natured.

GOOD-HUMOREDLY
Good`-hu"mored*ly, adv.

Defn: With a cheerful spirit; in a cheerful or good-tempered manner.

GOODISH
Good"ish, a.

Defn: Rather good than the contrary; not actually bad; tolerable.
Goodish pictures in rich frames. Walpole.

GOODLESS
Good"less, a.

Defn: Having no goods. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GOODLICH
Good"lich, a.

Defn: Goodly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GOODLINESS
Good"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Goodly.]

Defn: Beauty of form; grace; elegance; comeliness.
Her goodliness was full of harmony to his eyes. Sir P. Sidney.

GOOD-LOOKING
Good"-look`ing, a.

Defn: Handsome.

GOODLY
Good"ly, adv.

Defn: Excellently. [Obs.] Spenser.

GOODLY
Good"ly, a. [Compar. Goodlier; superl. Goodliest.] Etym: [OE.
godlich, AS. g. See Good, and Like.]

1. Pleasant; agreeable; desirable.
We have many goodly days to see. Shak.

2. Of pleasing appearance or character; comely; graceful; as, a
goodly person; goodly raiment, houses.
The goodliest man of men since born. Milton.

3. Large; considerable; portly; as, a goodly number.
Goodly and great he sails behind his link. Dryden.

GOODLYHEAD; GOODLYHOOD
Good"ly*head, Good"ly*hood n.

Defn: Goodness; grace; goodliness. [Obs.] Spenser.

GOODMAN
Good"man, n. Etym: [Good + man]

1. A familiar appellation of civility, equivalent to "My friend",
"Good sir", "Mister;" -- sometimes used ironically. [Obs.]
With you, goodman boy, an you please. Shak.

2. A husband; the master of a house or family; -- often used in
speaking familiarly. [Archaic] Chaucer.
Say ye to the goodman of the house, . . . Where is the guest-chamber
Mark xiv. 14.

Note: In the early colonial records of New England, the term goodman
is frequently used as a title of designation, sometimes in a
respectful manner, to denote a person whose first name was not known,
or when it was not desired to use that name; in this use it was
nearly equivalent to Mr. This use was doubtless brought with the
first settlers from England.

GOOD-NATURED
Good`-na"tured, a.

Defn: Naturally mild in temper; not easily provoked.

Syn.
 -- Good-natured, Good-tempered, Good-humored. Good-natured denotes a
disposition to please and be pleased. Good-tempered denotes a habit
of mind which is not easily ruffied by provocations or other
disturbing influences. Good-humored is applied to a spirit full of
ease and cheerfulness, as displayed in one's outward deportment and
in social intercourse. A good-natured man recommends himself to all
by the spirit which governs him. A good-humored man recommends
himself particularly as a companion. A good-tempered man is rarely
betrayed into anything which can disturb the serenity of the social
circle.

GOOD-NATUREDLY
Good`-na"tured*ly, adv.

Defn: With maldness of temper.

GOODNESS
Good"ness, n. Etym: [AS. g.]

Defn: The quality of being good in any of its various senses;
excellence; virtue; kindness; benevolence; as, the goodness of
timber, of a soil, of food; goodness of character, of disposition, of
conduct, etc.

GOOD NOW
Good" now".

Defn: An exclamation of wonder, surprise, or entreaty. [Obs.] Shak.

GOODS
Goods, n. pl.

Defn: See Good, n., 3.

GOODSHIP
Good"ship, n.

Defn: Favor; grace. [Obs.] Gower.

GOOD-TEMPERED
Good`-tem"pered, a.

Defn: Having a good temper; not easily vexed. See Good-natured.

GOODWIFE
Good"wife`, n.

Defn: The mistress of a house. [Archaic] Robynson (More's Utopia).

GOODY
Good"y, n.; pl. Goodies (.

1. A bonbon, cake, or the like; -- usually in the pl. [Colloq.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American fish; the lafayette or spot.

GOODY
Good"y, n.; pl. Goodies. Etym: [Prob. contr. from goodwife.]

Defn: Goodwife; -- a low term of civility or sport.

GOODY-GOODY
Good"y-good`y, a.

Defn: Mawkishly or weakly good; exhibiting goodness with silliness.
[Colloq.]

GOODYSHIP
Good"y*ship, n.

Defn: The state or quality of a goody or goodwife [Jocose] Hudibraus.

GOOROO; GURU
Goo*roo", Gu*ru" (, n. Etym: [Hind. gur a spiritual parent or
teacher, Skr. guru heavy, noble, venerable, teacher. Cf. Grief.]

Defn: A spiritual teacher, guide, or confessor amoung the Hindoos.
Malcom.

GOOSANDER
Goos"an`der, n. Etym: [OE. gossander, a tautological word formed fr.
goose + gander. Cf. Merganser.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of merganser (M. merganser) of Northern Europe and
America; -- called also merganser, dundiver, sawbill, sawneb,
shelduck, and sheldrake. See Merganser.

GOOSE
Goose, n.; pl. Geese. Etym: [OE. gos, AS. g, pl. g; akin to D. & G.
gans, Icel. gas, Dan. gaas, Sw. g, Russ. guse. OIr. geiss, L. anser,
for hanser, Gr. hamsa. sq. root233. Cf. Gander, Gannet, Ganza,
Gosling.] (Zoöl.)

1. Any large web-footen bird of the subfamily Anserinæ, and belonging
to Anser, Branta, Chen, and several allied genera. See Anseres.

Note: The common domestic goose is believed to have been derived from
the European graylag goose (Anser anser). The bean goose (A.
segetum), the American wild or Canada goose (Branta Canadensis), and
the bernicle goose (Branta leucopsis) are well known species. The
American white or snow geese and the blue goose belong to the genus
Chen. See Bernicle, Emperor goose, under Emperor, Snow goose, Wild
goose, Brant.

2. Any large bird of other related families, resembling the common
goose.

Note: The Egyptian or fox goose (Alopochen Ægyptiaca) and the African
spur-winged geese (Plectropterus) belong to the family
Plectropteridæ. The Australian semipalmated goose (Anseranas
semipalmata) and Cape Barren goose (Cereopsis Novæ-Hollandiæ) are
very different from northern geese, and each is made the type of a
distinct family. Both are domesticated in Australia.

3. A tailor's smoothing iron, so called from its handle, which
resembles the neck of a goose.

4. A silly creature; a simpleton.

5. A game played with counters on a board divided into compartments,
in some of which a goose was depicted.
The pictures placed for ornament and use, The twelve good rules, the
royal game of goose. Goldsmith.
A wild goose chase, an attempt to accomplish something impossible or
unlikely of attainment.
 -- Fen goose. See under Fen.
 -- Goose barnacle (Zoöl.), any pedunculated barnacle of the genus
Anatifa or Lepas; -- called also duck barnacle. See Barnacle, and
Cirripedia.
 -- Goose cap, a silly person. [Obs.] Beau. & .
 -- Goose corn (Bot.), a coarse kind of rush (Juncus squarrosus).
 -- Goose feast, Michaelmas. [Colloq. Eng.] -- Goose flesh, a
peculiar roughness of the skin produced by cold or fear; -- called
also goose skin.goose pimples and goose bumps -- Goose grass. (Bot.)
(a) A plant of the genus Galium (G. Aparine), a favorite food of
geese; -- called also catchweed and cleavers. (b) A species of
knotgrass (Polygonum aviculare). (c) The annual spear grass (Poa
annua).
 -- Goose neck, anything, as a rod of iron or a pipe, curved like the
neck of a goose; specially (Naut.), an iron hook connecting a spar
with a mast.
 -- Goose quill, a large feather or quill of a goose; also, a pen
made from it.
 -- Goose skin. See Goose flesh, above.
 -- Goose tongue (Bot.), a composite plant (Achillea ptarmica),
growing wild in the British islands.
 -- Sea goose. (Zoöl.) See Phalarope.
 -- Solan goose. (Zoöl.) See Gannet.

GOOSEBERRY
Goose"ber*ry, n.; pl. Gooseberries, Etym: [Corrupted for groseberry
or groiseberry, fr. OF. groisele, F. groseille, -- of German origin;
cf. G. krausbeere, kräuselbeere (fr. kraus crisp), D. kruisbes,
kruisbezie (as if crossberry, fr. kruis cross; for kroesbes,
kroesbezie, fr. kroes crisp), Sw. krusbär (fr. krus, krusing, crisp).
The first part of the word is perh. akin to E. curl. Cf. Grossular,
a.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Any thorny shrub of the genus Ribes; also, the edible berries
of such shrub. There are several species, of which Ribes Grossularia
is the one commonly cultivated.

2. A silly person; a goose cap. Goldsmith. Barbadoes gooseberry, a
climbing prickly shrub (Pereskia aculeata) of the West Indies, which
bears edible berries resembling gooseberries.
 -- Coromandel gooseberry. See Carambola.
 -- Gooseberry fool. See lst Fool.
 -- Gooseberry worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a small moth (Dakruma
convolutella). It destroys the gooseberry by eating the interior.

GOOSE EGG
Goose egg.

Defn: In games, a zero; a score or record of naught; -- so named in
allusion to the egglike outline of the zero sign 0. Called also duck
egg. [Slang]

GOOSEFISH
Goose"fish`, n. (Zöll.)

Defn: See Angler.

GOOSEFOOT
Goose"foot`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbs (Chenopodium) mostly annual weeds; pigweed.

GOOSE-RUMPED
Goose"-rumped`, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the tail set low and buttocks that fall away sharply
from the croup; -- said of certain horses.

GOOSERY
Goos"er*y, n.; pl. Gooseries (.

1. A place for keeping geese.

2. The characteristics or actions of a goose; silliness.
The finical goosery of your neat sermon actor. Milton.

GOOSEWING
Goose"wing`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: One of the clews or lower corners of a course or a topsail when
the middle part or the rest of the sail is furled.