

GRAPE FRUIT
Grape" fruit`.

Defn: The shaddock.

GRAPELESS
Grape"less, a.

Defn: Wanting grapes or the flavor of grapes.

GRAPERY
Grap"er*y, n.

Defn: A building or inclosure used for the cultivation of grapes.

GRAPESHOT
Grape"shot`, n. (Mil.)

Defn: A cluster, usually nine in number, of small iron balls, put
together by means of cast-iron circular plates at top and bottom,
with two rings, and a central connecting rod, in order to be used as
a charge for a cannon. Formerly grapeshot were inclosed in canvas
bags.

GRAPESTONE
Grape"stone`, n.

Defn: A seed of the grape.

GRAPEVINE
Grape"vine`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A vine or climbing shrub, of the genus Vitis, having small
green flowers and lobed leaves, and bearing the fruit called grapes.

Note: The common grapevine of the Old World is Vitis vinifera, and is
a native of Central Asia. Another variety is that yielding small
seedless grapes commonly called Zante currants. The northern Fox
grape of the United States is the V. Labrusca, from which, by
cultivation, has come the Isabella variety. The southern Fox grape,
or Muscadine, is the V. vulpina. The Frost grape is V. cordifolia,
which has very fragrant flowers, and ripens after the early frosts.

-GRAPH
-graph ( Etym: [From Gr. gra`fein to write. See Graphic.]

Defn: A suffix signifying something written, a writing; also, a
writer; as autograph, crystograph, telegraph, photograph.

GRAPHIC; GRAPHICAL
Graph"ic, Graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. graphicus, Gr. graphique. See
Graft.]

1. Of or pertaining to the arts of painting and drawing.

2. Of or pertaining to the art of writing.

3. Written or engraved; formed of letters or lines.
The finger of God hath left an inscription upon all his works, not
graphical, or composed of letters. Sir T. Browne.

4. Well delineated; clearly and vividly described.

5. Having the faculty of, or characterized by, clear and impressive
description; vivid; as, a gruphic writer. Graphic algebra, a branch
of algebra in which, the properties of equations are treated by the
use of curves and straight lines.
 -- Graphic arts, a name given to those fine arts which pertain to
the representation on a fiat surface of natural objects; as
distinguished from music, etc., and also from sculpture.
 -- Graphic formula. (Chem.) See under Formula.
 -- Graphic granite. See under Granite.
 -- Graphic method, the method of scientific analysis or
investigation, in which the relations or laws involved in tabular
numbers are represented to the eye by means of curves or other
figures; as the daily changes of weather by means of curves, the
abscissas of which represent the hours of the day, and the ordinates
the corresponding degrees of temperature.
 -- Graphical statics (Math.), a branch of statics, in which the
magnitude, direction, and position of forces are represented by
straight lines -- Graphic tellurium. See Sylvanite.

GRAPHICALLY
Graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a graphic manner; vividly.

GRAPHICNESS; GRAPHICALNESS
Graph"ic*ness, Graph"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being graphic.

GRAPHICS
Graph"ics, n.

Defn: The art or the science of drawing; esp. of drawing according to
mathematical rules, as in perspective, projection, and the like.

GRAPHISCOPE
Graph"i*scope, n.

Defn: See Graphoscope.

GRAPHITE
Graph"ite, n. Etym: [Gr. graphite. See Graphic.] (Min.)

Defn: Native carbon in hexagonal crystals, also foliated or granular
massive, of black color and metallic luster, and so soft as to leave
a trace on paper. It is used for pencils (improperly called lead
pencils), for crucibles, and as a lubricator, etc. Often called
plumbago or black lead. Graphite battery (Elec.), a voltaic battery
consisting of zinc and carbon in sulphuric acid, or other exciting
liquid.

GRAPHITIC
Gra*phit"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, containing, derived from, or resembling,
graphite. Graphitic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, so called because
obtained by the oxidation of graphite; -- usually called mellitic
acid.
 -- Graphitic carbon, in iron or steel, that portion of the carbon
which is present as graphite. Raymond.

GRAPHITOID; GRAPHITOIDAL
Graph"i*toid, Graph"i*toid"al, a.

Defn: Resembling graphite or plumbago.

GRAPHOLITE
Graph"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. grapholithe.]

Defn: Any species of slate suitable to be written on.

GRAPHOLOGY
Gra*phol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. graphologie.]

Defn: The art of judging of a person's character, disposition, and
aptitude from his handwriting.

GRAPHOPHONE
Graph"o*phone, n. [Gr.  to write + -phone, as in telephone.]

Defn: A kind of photograph.

GRAPHOSCOPE
Graph"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An optical instrument for magnifying engravings, photographs,
etc., usually having one large lens and two smaller ones.

GRAPHOTYPE
Graph"o*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.] (Engraving)

Defn: A process for producing a design upon a surface in relief so
that it can be printed from. Prepared chalk or oxide of zinc is
pressed upon a smooth plate by a hydraulic press, and the design is
drawn upon this in a peculiar ink which hardens the surface wherever
it is applied. The surface is then carefully rubbed or brushed,
leaving the lines in relief.

-GRAPHY
-gra*phy. Etym: [Gr. Graphic.]

Defn: A suffix denoting the art of writing or describing; also, the
writing or description itself; a treatise; as, calligraphy,
biography, geography.

GRAPNEL
Grap"nel, n. Etym: [OE. grapenel, dim. fr. F. grappin the grapple of
a ship; of German origin. See Grape.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small anchor, with four or five flukes or claws, used to hold
boats or small vessels; hence, any instrument designed to grapple or
hold; a grappling iron; a grab; -- written also grapline, and
crapnel.

GRAPPLE
Grap"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grappled; p. pr. & vb. n. Grappling.]
Etym: [F. grappiller, OF. graypil the grapple of a ship, fr. graper
to pluck, prop., to seize, clutch; of German origin. See Grape.]

1. To seize; to lay fast hold of; to attack at close quarters: as, to
grapple an antagonist.

2. To fasten, as with a grapple; to fix; to join indissolubly.
The gallies were grappled to the Centurion. Hakluyt.
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel. Shak.

GRAPPLE
Grap"ple, v. i.

Defn: To use a grapple; to contend in close fight; to attach one's
self as if by a grapple, as in wrestling; to close; to seize one
another. To grapple with, to enter into contest with, resolutely and
courageously.
And in my standard bear the arms of York, To grapple with the house
of Lancaster. Shak.

GRAPPLE
Grap"ple, n. Etym: [See Grapple, v. t., and cf. Crapple.]

1. A seizing or seizure; close hug in contest; the wrestler's hold.
Milton.

2.
(a) An instrument, usually with hinged claws, for seizing and holding
fast to an object; a grab. (b) (Naut.)

Defn: A grappling iron.
The iron hooks and grapples keen. Spenser.
Grapple plant (Bot.), a South African herb (Herpagophytum
leptocarpum) having the woody fruits armed with long hooked or barbed
thorns by which they adhere to cattle, causing intense annoyance.
 -- Grapple shot (Life-saving Service), a projectile, to which are
attached hinged claws to catch in a ship's rigging or to hold in the
ground; -- called also anchor shot.

GRAPPLEMENT
Grapple*ment, n.

Defn: A grappling; close fight or embrace. [Obs.] Spenser.

GRAPPLING
Grap"pling, n.

1. A laying fast ho1d of; also, that by which anything is seized and
held, a grapnel.

2. A grapple; a struggle. A match for yards in fight, in grappling
for the bear. Dryden. Grappling iron, a hooked iron used for
grappling and holding fast a vessel or other object.
 -- Grappling tongs, broad-mouthed tongs for gathering oysters.

GRAPSOID
Grap"soid, a. Etym: [NL. Grapsus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the genus Grapsus or the family Grapsidæ.
 -- n.

Defn: A grapsoid crab.

GRAPTOLITE
Grap"to*lite, n. Etym: [NL, Graptolithus, from Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: One of numerous species of slender and delicate fossils, of the
genus Graptolites and allied genera, found in the Silurian rocks.
They belong to an extinct group (Graptolithina) supposed to be
hydroids.

GRAPTOLITIC
Grap"to*lit`ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to graptolites; containing graptolites; as, a
graptolitic slate.

GRAPY
Grap"y, a.

Defn: Composed of, or resembling, grapes.
The grapy clusters. Addison.

GRASP
Grasp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grasper; p. pr. & vb. n. Qraspine.] Etym:
[OE. graspen; prob. akin to LG. grupsen, or to E. grope. Cf. Grab,
Grope.]

1. To seize and hold by clasping or embracing with the fingers or
arms; to catch to take possession of.
Thy hand is made to grasp a palmer's staff. Shak.

2. To lay hold of with the mind; to become thoroughly acquainted or
conversant with; to comprehend.

GRASP
Grasp, v. i.

Defn: To effect a grasp; to make the motion of grasping; to clutch;
to struggle; to strive.
As one that grasped And tugged for life and was by strength subdued.
Shak.
To grasp at, to catch at; to try to seize; as, Alexander grasped at
universal empire,

GRASP
Grasp, n.

1. A gripe or seizure of the hand; a seizure by embrace, or infolding
in the arms. "The grasps of love." Shak.

2. Reach of the arms; hence, the power of seizing and holding; as, it
was beyond his grasp.

3. Forcible possession; hold.
The whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp. Shak.

4. Wide-reaching power of intellect to comprehend subjects and hold
them under survey.
The foremost minds of the next . . . era were not, in power of grasp,
equal to their predecessors. Z. Taylor.

5. The handle of a sword or of an oar.

GRASPABLE
Grasp"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being grasped.

GRASPER
Grasp"er, n.

Defn: One who grasps or seizes; one who catches or holds.

GRASPING
Grasp"ing, a.

1. Seizing; embracing; catching.

2. Avaricious; greedy of gain; covetous; close; miserly; as, he is a
grasping man.
 -- Grasp"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Grasp"ing*ness, n.

GRASPLESS
Grasp"less, a.

Defn: Without a grasp; relaxed.
From my graspless hand Drop friendship's precious pearls. Coleridge.

GRASS
Grass, n. Etym: [OE. gras, gres, gers, AS, qr, g; akin to OFries.
gres, gers, OS., D., G., Icel., & Goth. gras, Dan. gr, Sw. gr, and
prob. to Z. grcen, grow. Cf. Graze.]

1. Popularly: Herbage; the plants which constitute the food of cattle
and other beasts; pasture.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An endogenous plant having simple leaves, a stem generally
jointed and tubular, the husks or glumes in pairs, and the seed
single.

Note: This definition includes wheat, rye, oats, barley, etc., and
excludes clover and some other plants which are commonly called by
the name of grass. The grasses form a numerous family of plants.

3. The season of fresh grass; spring. [Colloq.]
Two years old next grass. Lathsm.

4. Metaphorically used for what is transitory.
Surely the people is grass. Is. xl. 7.

Note: The following list includes most of the grasses of the United
States of special interest, except cereals. Many of these terms will
be found with definitions in the Vocabulary. See Illustrations in
Appendix. Barnyard grass, for hay. South. Panicum Grus-galli. Bent,
pasture and hay. Agrostis, several species. Bermuda grass, pasture.
South. Cynodon Dactylon. Black bent. Same as Switch grass (below).
Blue bent, hay. North and West. Andropogon provincialis. Blue grass,
pasture. Poa compressa. Blue joint, hay. Northwest. Aqropyrum
glaucum. Buffalo grass, grazing. Rocky Mts., etc. (a) Buchloë
dectyloides. (b) Same as Grama grass (below). Bunch grass, grazing.
Far West. Eriocoma, Festuca, Stips, etc. Chess, or Cheat, a weed.
Bromus secalinus, etc. Couch grass. Same as Quick grass (below). Crab
grass, (a) Hay, in South. A weed, in North. Panicum sanguinale. (b)
Pasture and hay. South. Eleusine Indica. Darnel (a) Bearded, a
noxious weed. Lolium temulentum. (b) Common. Same as Rye grass
(below). Drop seed, fair for forage and hay. Muhlenbergia, several
species. English grass. Same as Redtop (below). Fowl meadow grass.
(a) Pasture and hay. Poa serotina. (b) Hay, on moist land. Gryceria
nervata. Gama grass, cut fodder. South. Tripsacum dactyloides. Grama
grass, grazing. West and Pacific slope. Bouteloua oligostachya, etc.
Great bunch grass, pasture and hay. Far West. Festuca scabrella.
Guinea grass, hay. South. Panicum jumentorum. Herd's grass, in New
England Timothy, in Pennsylvania and South Redtop. Indian grass. Same
as Wood grass (below). Italian rye grass, forage and hay. Lolium
Italicum. Johnson grass, grazing aud hay. South and Southwest.
Sorghum Halepense. Kentucky blue grass, pasture. Poa pratensis. Lyme
grass, coarse hay. South. Elymus, several species. Manna grass,
pasture and hay. Glyceria, several species. Meadow fescue, pasture
and hay. Festuca elatior. Meadow foxtail, pasture, hay, lawn. North.
Alopecurus pratensis. Meadow grass, pasture, hay, lawn. Poa, several
species. Mesquite, or Muskit grass. Same as Grama grass (above).
Nimble Will, a kind of drop seed. Muhlenbergia diffsa. Orchard grass,
pasture and hay. Dactylis glomerata. Porcupine grass, troublesome to
sheep. Northwest. Stipa spartea. Quaking grass, ornamental. Briza
media and maxima. Quitch, or Quick, grass, etc., a weed. Agropyrum
repens. Ray grass. Same as Rye grass (below). Redtop, pasture and
hay. Agrostis vulgaris. Red-topped buffalo grass, forage. Northwest.
Poa tenuifolia. Reed canary grass, of slight value. Phalaris
arundinacea. Reed meadow grass, hay. North. Glyceria aquatica. Ribbon
grass, a striped leaved form of Reed canary grass. Rye grass,
pasture, hay. Lolium perenne, var. Seneca grass, fragrant basket
work, etc. North. Hierochloa borealis. Sesame grass. Same as Gama
grass (above). Sheep's fescue, sheep pasture, native in Northern
Europe and Asia. Festuca ovina. Small reed grass, meadow pasture and
hay. North. Deyeuxia Canadensis. Spear grass, Same as Meadow grass
(above). Squirrel-tail grass, troublesome to animals. Seacoast and
Northwest. Hordeum jubatum. Switch grass, hay, cut young. Panicum
virgatum. Timothy, cut young, the best of hay. North. Phleum
pratense. Velvet grass, hay on poor soil. South. Holcus lanatus.
Vernal grass, pasture, hay, lawn. Anthoxanthum odoratum. Wire grass,
valuable in pastures. Poa compressa. Wood grass, Indian grass, hay.
Chrysopogon nutans.

Note: Many plants are popularly called grasses which are not true
grasses botanically considered, such as black grass, goose grass,
star grass, etc. Black grass, a kind of small rush (Juncus Gerardi),
growing in salt marshes, used for making salt hay.
 -- Grass of the Andes, an oat grass, the Arrhenatherum avenaceum of
Europe.-- Grass of Parnassus, a plant of the genus Parnassia growing
in wet ground. The European species is P. palustris; in the United
States there are several species.
 -- Grass bass (Zoöl.), the calico bass.
 -- Grass bird, the dunlin.
 -- Grass cloth, a cloth woven from the tough fibers of the grass-
cloth plant.
 -- Grass-cloth plant, a perennial herb of the Nettle family
(Boehmeria nivea or Urtica nivea), which grows in Sumatra, China, and
Assam, whose inner bark has fine and strong fibers suited for textile
purposes.
 -- Grass finch. (Zoöl.) (a) A common American sparrow (Poöcætes
gramineus); -- called also vesper sparrow and bay-winged bunting. (b)
Any Australian finch, of the genus Poëphila, of which several species
are known.
 -- Grass lamb, a lamb suckled by a dam running on pasture land and
giving rich milk.-- Grass land, land kept in grass and not tilled.
 -- Grass moth (Zoöl.), one of many small moths of the genus Crambus,
found in grass.
 -- Grass oil, a fragrant essential volatile oil, obtained in India
from grasses of the genus Andropogon, etc.; -- used in perfumery
under the name of citronella, ginger grass oil, lemon grass oil,
essence of verbena etc.
 -- Grass owl (Zoöl.), a South African owl (Strix Capensis).
 -- Grass parrakeet (Zoöl.), any of several species of Australian
parrots, of the genus Euphemia; -- also applied to the zebra
parrakeet.
 -- Grass plover (Zoöl.), the upland or field plover.
 -- Grass poly (Bot.), a species of willowwort (Lythrum
Hyssopifolia). Johnson.
 -- Crass quit (Zoöl.), one of several tropical American finches of
the genus Euetheia. The males have most of the head and chest black
and often marked with yellow.-- Grass snake. (Zoöl.) (a) The common
English, or ringed, snake (Tropidonotus natrix). (b) The common green
snake of the Northern United States. See Green snake, under Green.
 -- Grass snipe (Zoöl.), the pectoral sandpiper (Tringa maculata) --
called also jacksnipe in America.
 -- Grass spider (Zoöl.), a common spider (Agelena nævia), which
spins flat webs on grass, conspicuous when covered with dew.
 -- Grass sponge (Zoöl.), an inferior kind of commercial sponge from
Florida and the Bahamas.
 -- Grass table. (Arch.) See Earth table, under Earth.
 -- Grass vetch (Bot.), a vetch (Lathyrus Nissolia), with narrow
grasslike leaves.
 -- Grass widow. Etym: [Cf. Prov. R. an unmarried mother, G.
strohwittwe a mock widow, Sw. gräsenka a grass widow.] (a) An
unmarried woman who is a mother. [Obs.] (b) A woman separated from
her husband by abandonment or prolonged absence; a woman living apart
from her husband. [Slang.] -- Grass wrack (Bot.) eelgrass.
 -- To bring to grass (Mining.), to raise, as ore, to the surface of
the ground.
 -- To put to grass, To put out to grass, to put out to graze a
season, as cattle.

GRASS
Grass, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grassed; p. pr. & vb. n. Grassing.]

1. To cover with grass or with turf.

2. To expose, as flax, on the grass for bleaching, etc.

3. To bring to the grass or ground; to land; as, to grass a fish.
[Colloq.]

GRASS
Grass, v. i.

Defn: To produce grass. [R.] Tusser.

GRASSATION
Gras*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. grassatio, from grassari to go about.]

Defn: A wandering about with evil intentions; a rioting. [Obs. & R.]
Feltham.

GRASS-GREEN
Grass"-green`, a.

1. Green with grass.

2. Of the color of grass; clear and vivid green.

GRASS-GROWN
Grass"-grown`, a.

Defn: Overgrown with grass; as, a grass-grown road.

GRASSHOPPER
Grass"hop`per, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any jumping, orthopterous insect, of the families Acrididæ and
Locustidæ. The species and genera are very numerous. The former
family includes the Western grasshopper or locust (Caloptenus
spretus), noted for the great extent of its ravages in the region
beyond the Mississippi. In the Eastern United States the red-legged
(Caloptenus femurrubrum and C. atlanis) are closely related species,
but their ravages are less important. They are closely related to the
migratory locusts of the Old World. See Locust.

Note: The meadow or green grasshoppers belong to the Locustidæ. They
have long antennæ, large ovipositors, and stridulating organs at the
base of the wings in the male. The European great green grasshopper
(Locusta viridissima) belongs to this family. The common American
green species mostly belong to Xiphidium, Orchelimum, and
Conocephalus.

2. In ordinary square or upright pianos of London make, the
escapement lever or jack, so made that it can be taken out and
replaced with the key; -- called also the hopper. Grove. Grasshopper
engine, a steam engine having a working beam with its fulcrum at one
end, the steam cylinder at the other end, and the connecting rod at
an intermediate point.
 -- Grasshopper lobster (Zoöl.) a young lobster. [Local, U. S.] --
Grasshopper warbler (Zoöl.), cricket bird.

GRASSINESS
Grass"i*ness, n. Etym: [From Grassy.]

Defn: The state of abounding with grass; a grassy state.

GRASSLESS
Grass"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of grass.

GRASSPLOT
Grass"plot`, n.

Defn: A plot or space covered with grass; a lawn. "Here on this
grassplot." Shak.

GRASS TREE
Grass" tree". (Bot.)
(a) An Australian plant of the genus Xanthorrhoea, having a thick
trunk crowned with a dense tuft of pendulous, grasslike leaves, from
the center of which arises a long stem, bearing at its summit a dense
flower spike looking somewhat like a large cat-tail. These plants are
often called "blackboys" from the large trunks denuded and blackened
by fire. They yield two kinds of fragrant resin, called Botany-bay
gum, and Gum Acaroides.
(b) A similar Australian plant (Kingia australis).

GRASSY
Grass"y a.

1. Covered with grass; abounding with grass; as, a grassy lawn.
Spenser.

2. Resembling grass; green.

GRATE
Grate, a. Etym: [L. gratus agreeable, grateful: cf. It. & Sp. grato.
See Grace, and cf. Agree.]

Defn: Serving to gratify; agreeable. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

GRATE
Grate, n. Etym: [LL.. grata, fr. L. crates hurdle; or It. grata, of
the same origin. Sae Crate, Hurdle.]

1. A structure or frame containing parallel or crosed bars, with
interstices; a kind of latticework, such as is used ia the windows of
prisons and cloisters. "A secret grate of iron bars." Shak.

2. A frame or bed, or kind of basket, of iron bars, for holding fuel
while burning. Grate surface (Steam, Boiler) the area of the surface
of the grate upon which the fuel lies in the furnace.

GRATE
Grate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grated; p. pr. &. vb. n. Grating.]

Defn: To furnish with grates; to protect with a grating or crossbars;
as, to grate a window.

GRATE
Grate, v. t. Etym: [OF grater to scrape, scratch, F. gratter, LL.
gratare, cratare; of German origin; cf. OHG. chrazzon G. kratzen, D.
krassen, Sw. Kratta, and perh. E. scratch.]

1. To rub roughly or harshly, as one body against another, causing a
harsh sound; as, to grate the teeth; to produce (a harsh sound) by
rubbing.
On their hinges grate Harsh thunder. Milton.

2. To reduce to small particles by rubbing with anything rough or
indented; as, to grate a nutmeg.

3. To fret; to irritate; to offend.
News, my good lord Rome . . . grates me. Shak.

GRATE
Grate, v. i.

1. To make a harsh sound by friction.
I had rather hear a brazen canstick turned, Or a dry wheel grate on
the exletree. Shak.

2. To produce the effect of rubbing with a hard rough material; to
cause wearing, tearing, or bruising. Hence; To produce exasperation,
soreness, or grief; to offend by oppression or importunity.
This grated harder upon the hearts of men. South.

GRATED
Grat"ed, a. Etym: [From 2d Grate.]

Defn: Furnished with a grate or grating; as, grated windows.

GRATEFUL
Grate"ful, a. Etym: [Grate, a. + full; cf. F. gré thanks, good will,
fr. L. gratum, neut. of gratus agreeable, grateful. See Grate, a.]

1. Having a due sense of benefits received; kindly disposed toward
one from whom a favor has been received; willing to acknowledge and
repay, or give thanks for, benefits; as, a grateful heart.
A grateful mind By owing, owes not, but still pays. Milton.

2. Affording pleasure; pleasing to the senses; gratifying; delicious;
as, a grateful present; food grateful to the palate; grateful sleep.
Now golden fruits on loaded branches shine, And grateful clusters
swell. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Thankful; pleasing; acceptable; gratifying; agreeable; welcome;
delightful; delicious.
 -- Grate"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Grate"ful*ness, n.

GRATER
Grat"er, a. Etym: [From Qrate, v.]

Defn: One who, or that which, grates; especially, an instrument or
utensil with a rough, indented surface, for rubbing off small
particles of any substance; as a grater for nutmegs.

GRATICULATION
Gra*tic"u*la"tion, n. Etym: [F. graticulation, craticulation, fr.
graticuler, craticuler, to square, fr. graticule, craticule,
graticule, L. craticula, dim. of crates wickerwork. See 2d Grate.]

Defn: The division of a design or draught into squares, in order the
more easily to reproduce it in larger or smaller dimensions.

GRATICULE
Grat"i*cule, n. Etym: [F. See Graticulation.]

Defn: A design or draught which has been divided into squares, in
order to reproduce it in other dimensions.

GRATIFICATION
Grat"i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. gratificatio: cf. F. gratification.]

1. The act of gratifying, or pleasing, either the mind, the taste, or
the appetite; as, the gratification of the palate, of the appetites,
of the senses, of the desires, of the heart.

2. That which affords pleasure; satisfaction; enjoyment; fruition:
delight.

3. A reward; a recompense; a gratuity. Bp. Morton.

GRATIFIED
Grat"i*fied, a.

Defn: Pleased; indulged according to desire.

Syn.
 -- Glad; pleased. See Glad.

GRATIFIER
Grat"i*fi"er, n.

Defn: One who gratifies or pleases.

GRATIFY
Grat"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gratified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gratifying.] Etym: [F. gratifier, L. gratificari; gratus pleasing + -
ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy.]

1. To please; to give pleasure to; to satisfy; to soothe; to indulge;
as, to gratify the taste, the appetite, the senses, the desires, the
mind, etc.
For who would die to gratify a foe Dryden.

2. To requite; to recompense. [Obs.]
It remains . . . To gratify his noble service. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To indulge; humor please; delight; requite; recompense.
 -- To Gratify, Indulge, Humor. Gratify, is the generic term, and has
reference simply to the pleasure communicated. To indulge a person
implies that we concede something to his wishes or his weaknesses
which he could not claim, and which had better, perhaps, be spared.
To humor is to adapt ourselves to the varying moods, and, perhaps,
caprices, of others. We gratify a child by showing him the sights of
a large city; we indulge him in some extra expense on such an
occasion; we humor him when he is tired and exacting.

GRATIN
Gra`tin", n. [F.] (Cookery)

Defn: The brown crust formed upon a gratinated dish; also, dish
itself, as crusts bread, game, or poultry.

GRATINATE
Grat"i*nate, v. t. [F. gratiner, v.i., to form a crust.] (Cookery)

Defn: To cook, as macaroni, in a savory juice or sauce until juice is
absorbed and a crisp surface forms.

GRATING
Grat"ing, n. Etym: [See 2d Grate.]

1. A partition, covering, or frame of parallel or cross bars; a
latticework resembling a window grate; as, the grating of a prison or
convent.

2. (Optics) A system of close equidistant and parallel lines lines or
bars, especially lines ruled on a polished surface, used for
producing spectra by diffraction; -- called also diffraction grating.

3. pl. (Naut.) The strong wooden lattice used to cover a hatch,
admitting light and air; also, a movable Lattice used for the
flooring of boats.

GRATING
Grat"ing, a. Etym: [See Grate to rub harshy.]

Defn: That grates; making a harsh sound; harsh.
 -- Grat"ing*ly, adv.

GRATING
Grat"ing, n.

Defn: A harsh sound caused by attrition.

GRATIOLIN
Gra*ti"o*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of the essential principles of the hedge hyssop (Gratiola
officinalis).

GRATIS
Gra"tis, adv. Etym: [L., contr. fr. gratiis out of favor or kindness,
without recompense, for nothing, fr. gratia favor. See Grace.]

Defn: For nothing; without fee or recompense; freely; gratuitously.

GRATITUDE
Grat"i*tude, n. Etym: [F. gratitude, LL. gratitudo, from gratus
agreeable, grateful. See Grate, a.]

Defn: The state of being grateful; warm and friendly feeling toward a
benefactor; kindness awakened by a favor received; thankfulness.
The debt immense of endless gratitude. Milton.

GRATUITOUS
Gra*tu"i*tous a. Etym: [L. gratuitus, from gratus pleasing. See
Grate, a., Gratis.]

1. Given without an equivalent or recompense; conferred without
valuable consideration; granted without pay, or without claim or
merit; not required by justice.
We mistake the gratuitous blessings of Heaven for the fruits of our
own industry. L'Estrange.

2. Not called for by the circumstances; without reason, cause, or
proof; adopted or asserted without any good ground; as, a gratuitous
assumption.
Acts of gratuitous self-humiliation. De Quincye.
-- Gra*tu"i*tous*ly, adv.
 -- Gra*tu"i*tous*ness, n.

GRATUITY
Gra*tu"i*ty, n.; pl. Gtratuities. Etym: [F. gratuité, or LL.
gratuitas.]

1. Something given freely or without recompense; a free gift; a
present. Swift.

2. Something voluntarily given in return for a favor or service, as a
recompense or acknowledgment.

GRATULATE
Grat"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grqatulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gratulating.] Etym: [L. gratulatus, p. p. of gratulari to
congratulate, fr. gratus pleasing, agreeable. See Grate, a.]

Defn: To salute with declaration of joy; to congratulate. [R.] Shak.

GRATULATE
Grat"u*late, a.

Defn: Worthy of gratulation. [Obs.]
There's more behind that is more gratulate. Shak.

GRATULATION
Grat"u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. gratulatio.]

Defn: The act of gratulating or felicitating; congratulation.
I shall turn my wishes into gratulations. South.

GRATULATORY
Grat"u*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. gratulatorius.]

Defn: Expressing gratulation or joy; congratulatory.
The usual groundwork of such gratulatory odes. Bp. Horsley.

GRAUNT
Graunt, v. & n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Grant. Chaucer.

GRAUWACKE
Grau"wack*e, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: Graywacke.

GRAVAMEN
Gra*va"men, n.; pl. L. Gravamina , E. Gravamens. Etym: [L., fr.
gravare to load, burden, fr. gravis heavy, weighty. See Grave, a.]
(Law)

Defn: The grievance complained of; the substantial cause of the
action; also, in general, the ground or essence of a complaint.
Bouvier.

-GRAVE
-grave.

Defn: A final syllable signifying a ruler, as in landgrave, margrave.
See Margrave.

GRAVE
Grave, v. t.

Defn: (Naut.) To clean, as a vessel's bottom, of barnacles, grass,
etc., and pay it over with pitch; -- so called because graves or
greaves was formerly used for this purpose.

GRAVE
Grave, a. [Compar. Graver (grav"er); superl. Gravest.] Etym: [F., fr.
L. gravis heavy; cf. It. & Sp. grave heavy, grave. See Grief.]

1. Of great weight; heavy; ponderous. [Obs.]
His shield grave and great. Chapman.

2. Of importance; momentous; weighty; influential; sedate; serious; -
- said of character, relations, etc.; as, grave deportment,
character, influence, etc.
Most potent, grave, and reverend seigniors. Shak.
A grave and prudent law, full of moral equity. Milton.

3. Not light or gay; solemn; sober; plain; as, a grave color; a grave
face.

4. (Mus.) (a) Not acute or sharp; low; deep; -- said of sound; as, a
grave note or key.
The thicker the cord or string, the more grave is the note or tone.
Moore (Encyc. of Music).

(b) Slow and solemn in movement. Grave accent. (Pron.) See the Note
under Accent, n., 2.

Syn.
 -- Solemn; sober; serious; sage; staid; demure; thoughtful; sedate;
weighty; momentous; important.
 -- Grave, Sober, Serious, Solemn. Sober supposes the absence of all
exhilaration of spirits, and is opposed to gay or flighty; as, sober
thought. Serious implies considerateness or reflection, and is
opposed to jocose or sportive; as, serious and important concerns.
Grave denotes a state of mind, appearance, etc., which results from
the pressure of weighty interests, and is opposed to hilarity of
feeling or vivacity of manner; as, a qrave remark; qrave attire.
Solemn is applied to a case in which gravity is carried to its
highest point; as, a solemn admonition; a solemn promise.

GRAVE
Grave, v. t. [imp. Graved (gravd); p. p. Graven (grav"'n) or Graved;
p. pr. & vb. n. Graving.] Etym: [AS. grafan to dig, grave, engrave;
akin to OFries. greva, D. graven, G. graben, OHG. & Goth. graban,
Dan. grabe, Sw. gräfva, Icel. grafa, but prob. not to Gr. gra`fein to
write, E. graphic. Cf. Grave, n., Grove, n.]

1. To dig. [Obs.] Chaucer.
He hath graven and digged up a pit. Ps. vii. 16 (Book of Common
Prayer).

2. To carve or cut, as letters or figures, on some hard substance; to
engrave.
Thou shalt take two onyx stones, and grave on them the names of the
children of Israel. Ex. xxviii. 9.

3. To carve out or give shape to, by cutting with a chisel; to
sculpture; as, to grave an image.
With gold men may the hearte grave. Chaucer.

4. To impress deeply (on the mind); to fix indelibly.
O! may they graven in thy heart remain. Prior.

5. To entomb; to bury. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Lie full low, graved in the hollow ground. Shak.

GRAVE
Grave, v. i.

Defn: To write or delineate on hard substances, by means of incised
lines; to practice engraving.

GRAVE
Grave, n. Etym: [AS. grf, fr. grafan to dig; akin to D. & OS. graf,
G. grab, Icel. gröf, Russ. grob' grave, coffin. See Grave to carve.]

Defn: An excavation in the earth as a place of burial; also, any
place of interment; a tomb; a sepulcher. Hence: Death; destruction.
He bad lain in the grave four days. John xi. 17.
Grave wax, adipocere.

GRAVECLOTHES
Grave"clothes` (, n. pl.

Defn: The clothes or dress in which the dead are interred.

GRAVEDIGGER
Grave"dig`ger, n.

1. A digger of graves.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Burying beetle, under Bury, v. t.

GRAVEL
Grav"el, n. Etym: [OF. gravele, akin to F. grve a sandy shore,
strand; of Celtic origin; cf. Armor. grouan gravel, W. gro coarse
gravel, pebbles, and Skr. gravan stone.]

1. Small stones, or fragments of stone; very small pebbles, often
intermixed with particles of sand.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A deposit of small calculous concretions in the kidneys and the
urinary or gall bladder; also, the disease of which they are a
symptom. Gravel powder, a coarse gunpowder; pebble powder.

GRAVEL
Grav"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Graveled or Gravelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Graveling or Gravelling.]

1. To cover with gravel; as, to gravel a walk.

2. To run (as a ship) upon the gravel or beach; to run aground; to
cause to stick fast in gravel or sand.
When we were fallen into a place between two seas, they graveled the
ship. Acts xxvii. 41 (Rhemish version).
Willam the Conqueror . . . chanced as his arrival to be graveled; and
one of his feet stuck so fast in the sand that he fell to the ground.
Camden.

3. To check or stop; to embarrass; to perplex. [Colloq.]
When you were graveled for lack of matter. Shak.
The physician was so graveled and amazed withal, that he had not a
word more to say. Sir T. North.

4. To hurt or lame (a horse) by gravel lodged between the shoe and
foot.

GRAVELESS
Grave"less, a.

Defn: Without a grave; unburied.

GRAVELING; GRAVELLING
Grav"el*ing, or Grav"el*ling, n.

1. The act of covering with gravel.

2. A layer or coating of gravel (on a path, etc.).

GRAVELING; GRAVELLING
Grav"el*ing, or Grav"el*ling, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A salmon one or two years old, before it has gone to sea.

GRAVELLINESS
Grav"el*li*ness, n.

Defn: State of being gravelly.

GRAVELLY
Grav"el*ly, a.

Defn: Abounding with gravel; consisting of gravel; as, a gravelly
soil.

GRAVEL-STONE
Grav"el-stone", n.

Defn: A pebble, or small fragment of stone; a calculus.

GRAVELY
Grave"ly, adv.

Defn: In a grave manner.

GRAVEN
Grav"en, p. p. of Grave, v. t.

Defn: Carved. Graven image, an idol; an object of worship carved from
wood, stone, etc. "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image."
Ex. xx. 4.

GRAVENESS
Grave"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being grave.
His sables and his weeds, Importing health and graveness. Shak.

GRAVENSTEIN
Gra"ven*stein", n. Etym: [So called because it came from Gravenstein,
a place in Schleswig. Downing.]

Defn: A kind of fall apple, marked with streaks of deep red and
orange, and of excellent flavor and quality.

GRAVEOLENCE
Gra*ve"o*lence, n. Etym: [L. graveolentia: cf. F. gravéolence. See
Graveolent.]

Defn: A strong and offensive smell; rancidity. [R.] Bailey.

GRAVEOLENT
Gra*ve"o*lent, a. Etym: [L. graveolens; gravis heavy + olere to
smell.]

Defn: Having a rank smell. [R.] Boyle.

GRAVER
Graver, n.

1. One who graves; an engraver or a sculptor; one whose occupation is
te cut letters or figures in stone or other hard material.

2. An ergraving or cutting tool; a burin.

GRAVERY
Grav"er*y, n.

Defn: The act, process, or art, of graving or carving; engraving.
Either of picture or gravery and embossing. Holland.

GRAVES
Graves, n. pl.

Defn: The sediment of melted tallow. Same as Greaves.

GRAVES' DISEASE
Graves"' dis*ease". Etym: [So called after Dr. Graves, of Dublin.]

Defn: Same as Basedow's disease.

GRAVESTONE
Grave"stone, n.

Defn: A stone laid over, or erected near, a grave, usually with an
inscription, to preserve the memory of the dead; a tombstone.

GRAVEYARD
Grave"yard", n.

Defn: A yard or inclosure for the interment of the dead; a cemetery.

GRAVIC
Grav"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or causing, gravitation; as, gravic forces;
gravic attraction. [R.]

GRAVID
Grav"id, a. Etym: [L. gravidus, fr. gravis heavy, loaded. See Grave,
a.]

Defn: Being with child; heavy with young; pregnant; fruitful; as, a
gravid uterus; gravid piety. " His gravid associate." Sir T. Herbert.

GRAVIDATED
Grav"i*da"ted, a. Etym: [L. gravidatus, p. p. of gravidare to load,
impregnate. See Gravid.]

Defn: Made pregnant; big. [Obs.] Barrow.

GRAVIDATION
Grav"i*da"tion, n.

Defn: Gravidity. [Obs.]

GRAVIDITY
Gra*vid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. graviditas.]

Defn: The state of being gravidated; pregnancy. [R.]

GRAVIGRADE
Grav"i*grade, a. Etym: [L. gravis heavy + gradus step.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Slow-paced.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the pachyderms.

GRAVIMETER
Gra*vim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. gravis heavy + -meter: cf. F.
gravimètre.]

Defn: (Physics) An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity
of bodies.

GRAVIMETRIC
Grav"i*met"ric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to measurement by weight; measured by weight.
 -- Grav"i*met"ric*al*ly, adv. Gravimetric analysis (Chem.), analysis
in which the amounts of the coastituents are determined by weight; --
in distinction from volumetric analysis.

GRAVING
Grav"ing, n. Etym: [From Grave to clean.]

Defn: The act of cleaning a ship's bottom. Graving dock. (Naut.) See
under Dock.

GRAVING
Grav"ing, n. Etym: [From Grave to dig.]

l.

Defn: The act or art of carving figures in hard substances, esp. by
incision or in intaglio.

2. That which is graved or carved. [R.]
Skillful to . . . grave any manner of graving. 2 Chron. ii. 14.

3. Impression, as upon the mind or heart.
New gravings upon their souls. Eikon Basilike

GRAVITATE
Grav"i*tate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Gravitated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Gravitating.] Etym: [Cf. F. graviter. See Gravity.]

Defn: To obey the law of gravitation; to exert a force Or pressure,
or tend to move, under the influence of gravitation; to tend in any
direction or toward any object.
Why does this apple fall to the ground Because all bodies gravitate
toward each other. Sir W. Hamilton.
Politicians who naturally gravitate towards the stronger party.
Macaulay.

GRAVITATION
Grav"i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. gravitation. See Gravity.]

1. The act of gravitating.

2. (Pysics) That species of attraction or force by which all bodies
or particles of matter in the universe tend toward each other; called
also attraction of gravitation, universal gravitation, and universal
gravity. See Attraction, and Weight. Law of gravitatian, that law in
accordance with which gravitation acts, namely, that every two bodies
or portions of matter in the universe attract each other with a force
proportional directly to the quantity of matter they contain, and
inversely to the squares of their distances.

GRAVITATIONAL
Grav`i*tation*al, a. (Physics)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the force of gravity; as, gravitational
units.

GRAVITATIVE
Gravi*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Causing to gravitate; tending to a center. Coleridge.

GRAVITY
Grav"i*ty, n.; pl. Gravities. Etym: [L. gravitas, fr. gravis heavy;
cf. F. gravité. See Grave, a., Grief.]

1. The state of having weight; beaviness; as, the gravity of lead.

2. Sobriety of character or demeanor. "Men of gravity and
learning."Shak.

3. Importance, significance, dignity, etc; hence, seriousness;
enormity; as, the gravity of an offense.
They derive an importance from . . . the gravity of the place where
they were uttered. Burke.

4. (Physics)

Defn: The tendency of a mass of matter toward a center of attraction;
esp., the tendency of a body toward the center of the earth;
terrestrial gravitation.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: Lowness of tone; -- opposed to acuteness. Center of gravity See
under Center.
 -- Gravity battery, See Battery, n., 4.
 -- Specific gravity, the ratio of the weight of a body to the weight
of an equal volume of some other body taken as the standard or unit.
This standard is usually water for solids and liquids, and air for
gases. Thus, 19, the specific gravity of gold, expresses the fact
that, bulk for bulk, gold is nineteen times as heavy as water.

GRAVY
Gra"vy, n; pl. Gravies. Etym: [OE. greavie; prob. fr. greaves,
graves, the sediment of melted tallow. See Greaves.]

1. The juice or other liquid matter that drips from flesh in cooking,
made into a dressing for the food when served up.

2. Liquid dressing for meat, fish, vegetables, etc.

GRAY
Gray, a. [Compar. Grayer (; superl. Grayest.] Etym: [OE. gray, grey,
AS. grg, grg; akin to D. graauw OHG. gro, G. grau, Dan. graa, Dw. gr,
Icel. grdr.] [Written also grey.]

1. White mixed with black, as the color of pepper and salt, or of
ashes, or of hair whitened by age; sometimes, a dark mixed color; as,
the soft gray eye of a dove.
These gray and dun colors may be also produced by mixing whites and
blacks. Sir I. Newton.

2. Gray-haired; gray-headed; of a gray color; hoary.

3. Old; mature; as, gray experience. Ames. Gray antimony (Min.),
stibnite.
 -- Gray buck (Zoöl.), the chickara.
 -- Gray cobalt (Min.), smaltite.
 -- Gray copper (Min.), tetrahedrite.
 -- Gray duck (Zoöl.), the gadwall; also applied to the female
mallard.
 -- Gray falcon (Zoöl.) the peregrine falcon.
 -- Gray Friar. See Franciscan, and Friar.
 -- Gray hen (Zoöl.), the female of the blackcock or black grouse.
See Heath grouse.
 -- Gray mill or millet (Bot.), a name of several plants of the genus
Lithospermum; gromwell.
 -- Gray mullet (Zoöl.) any one of the numerous species of the genus
Mugil, or family Mugilidæ, found both in the Old World and America;
as the European species (M. capito, and M. auratus), the American
striped mullet (M. albula), and the white or silver mullet (M.
Braziliensis). See Mullet.
 -- Gray owl (Zoöl.), the European tawny or brown owl (Syrnium
aluco). The great gray owl (Ulula cinerea) inhabits arctic America.
 -- Gray parrot (Zoöl.), a parrot (Psittacus erithacus), very
commonly domesticated, and noted for its aptness in learning to talk.
 -- Gray pike. (Zoöl.) See Sauger.
 -- Gray snapper (Zoöl.), a Florida fish; the sea lawyer. See
Snapper.
 -- Gray snipe (Zoöl.), the dowitcher in winter plumage.
 -- Gray whale (Zoöl.), a rather large and swift California whale
(Rhachianectes glaucus), formerly taken in large numbers in the bays;
-- called also grayback, devilfish, and hardhead.

GRAY
Gray, n.

1. A gray color; any mixture of white and black; also, a neutral or
whitish tint.

2. An animal or thing of gray color, as a horse, a badger, or a kind
of salmon.
Woe worth the chase, woe worth the day. That coats thy life, my
gallant gray. Sir W. Scott.

GRAYBACK
Gray"back`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The California gray whale.
(b) The redbreasted sandpiper or knot.
(c) The dowitcher.
(d) The body louse.

GRAYBEARD
Gray"beard`, n.

Defn: An old man. Shak.

GRAYFLY
Gray"fly`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The trumpet fly. Milton.

GRAYHOUND
Gray"hound` (-hound`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Greyhound.

GRAYISH
Gray"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat gray.

GRAYLAG
Gray"lag`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common wild gray goose (Anser anser) of Europe, believed to
be the wild form of the domestic goose. See Illust. of Goose.

GRAYLING
Gray"ling, n. Etym: [From Gray, a.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European fish (Thymallus vulgaris), allied to the trout, but
having a very broad dorsal fin; -- called also umber. It inhabits
cold mountain streams, and is valued as a game fish.
And here and there a lusty trout, And here and there a grayling.
Tennyson.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American fish of the genus Thymallus, having similar habits
to the above; one species (T. Ontariensis), inhabits several streams
in Michigan; another (T. montanus), is found in the Yellowstone
region.

GRAYNESS
Gray"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being gray.

GRAYSTONE
Gray"stone`, n. (Geol.)

Defn: A grayish or greenish compact rock, composed of feldspar and
augite, and allied to basalt.

GRAYWACKE
Gray"wacke`, n. Etym: [G. grauwacke; grau gray + wacke wacke. See
Gray, and Wacke, and cf. Grauwacke.] (Geol.)

Defn: A conglomerate or grit rock, consisting of rounded pebbles sand
firmly united together.

Note: This term, derved from the grauwacke of German miners, was
formerly applied in geology to different grits and slates of the
Silurian series; but it is now seldom used.

GRAZE
Graze, v. t. Etym: [imp. & p. p. Grazed (p. pr. & vb. n. Grazing.]
Etym: [OE. grasen, AS. grasian, fr. grs grass. See Grass.]

1. To feed or supply (cattle, sheep, etc.) with grass; to furnish
pasture for.
A field or two to graze his cows. Swift.

2. To feed on; to eat (growing herbage); to eat grass from (a
pasture); to browse.
The lambs with wolves shall graze the verdant mead. Pope.

3. To tend (cattle, etc.) while grazing.
When Jacob grazed his uncle Laban's sheep. Shak.

4. To rub or touch lightly the surface of (a thing) in passing; as,
the bullet grazed the wall.

GRAZE
Graze, v. i.

1. To eat grass; to feed on growing herbage; as, cattle graze on the
meadows.

2. To yield grass for grazing. The ground cortinueth the wet, whereby
it will never graze to purpose. Bacon.

3. To touch something lightly in passing.

GRAZE
Graze, n.

1. The act of grazing; the cropping of grass. [Colloq.]
Turning him out for a grace on the common. T. Hughes.

2. A light touch; a slight scratch.

GRAZER
Graz"er, n.

Defn: One that grazes; a creature which feeds on growing grass or
herbage.
The cackling goose, Close grazer, finds wherewith to ease her want.
J. Philips.

GRAZIER
Gra"zier, n.

Defn: One who pastures cattle, and rears them for market.
The inhabitants be rather . . . graziers than plowmen. Stow.

GRAZING
Graz"ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, grazes.

2. A pasture; growing grass.

GRAZIOSO
Gra"zi*o"so, adv. Etym: [It., adj. See Gracious.] (Mus.)

Defn: Gracefully; smoothly; elegantly.

GRE
Gre, n.

Defn: See Gree, a step. [Obs.]

GRE
Gre, n.

Defn: See Gree, good will. [Obs.]

GREASE
Grease (gres), n. Etym: [OE. grese, grece, F. graisse; akin to gras
fat, greasy, fr. LL. grassus thick, fat, gross, L. crassus. Cf.
Crass.]

1. Animal fat, as tallow or lard, especially when in a soft state;
oily or unctuous matter of any kind.

2. (Far.)

Defn: An inflammation of a horse's heels, suspending the ordinary
greasy secretion of the part, and producing dryness and scurfiness,
followed by cracks, ulceration, and fungous excrescences. Grease
bush. (Bot.) Same as Grease wood (below).
 -- Grease moth (Zoöl.), a pyralid moth (Aglossa pinguinalis) whose
larva eats greasy cloth, etc.
 -- Grease wood (Bot.), a scraggy, stunted, and somewhat prickly
shrub (Sarcobatus vermiculatus) of the Spinach family, very abundant
in alkaline valleys from the upper Missouri to California. The name
is also applied to other plants of the same family, as several
species of Atriplex and Obione.

GREASE
Grease, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Greased (grezd or gresd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Greasing.]

1. To smear, anoint, or daub, with grease or fat; to lubricate; as,
to grease the wheels of a wagon.

2. To bribe; to corrupt with presents.
The greased advocate that grinds the poor. Dryden.

3. To cheat or cozen; to overreach. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

4. (Ear.) To affect (a horse) with grease, the disease. To grease in
the hand, to corrupt by bribes. Usher.

GREASE COCK; GREASE CUP
Grease cock or cup . (Mach.)

Defn: A cock or cup containing grease, to serve as a lubricator.

GREASER
Greas"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, greases; specifically, a person employed
to lubricate the working parts of machinery, engines, carriages, etc.

2. A nickname sometimes applied in contempt to a Mexican of the
lowest type. [Low, U. S.]

GREASILY
Greas"i*ly

Defn: , adv.

1. In a greasy manner.

2. In a gross or indelicate manner. [Obs.]
You talk greasily; your lips grow foul. Shak.

GREASINESS
Greas"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being greasy, oiliness; unctuousness;
grossness.

GREASY
Greas"y, a. Etym: [Compar. Greasier (

1. Composed of, or characterized by, grease; oily; unctuous; as, a
greasy dish.

2. Smeared or defiled with grease.
With greasy aprons, rules, and hammers. Shak.

3. Like grease or oil; smooth; seemingly unctuous to the touch, as is
mineral soapstone.

4. Fat of body; bulky. [R.] Shak.

5. Gross; indelicate; indecent. [Obs.] Marston.

6. (Far.)

Defn: Affected with the disease called grease; as, the heels of a
horse. See Grease, n., 2.

GREAT
Great, a. [Compar. Greater (; superl. Greatest.] Etym: [OE. gret,
great, AS. gret; akin to OS. & LG. grt, D. groot, OHG. grz, G. gross.
Cf. Groat the coin.]

1. Large in space; of much size; big; immense; enormous; expanded; --
opposed to small and little; as, a great house, ship, farm, plain,
distance, length.

2. Large in number; numerous; as, a great company, multitude, series,
etc.

3. Long continued; lengthened in duration; prolonged in time; as, a
great while; a great interval.

4. Superior; admirable; commanding; -- applied to thoughts, actions,
and feelings.

5. Endowed with extraordinary powers; uncommonly gifted; able to
accomplish vast results; strong; powerful; mighty; noble; as, a great
hero, scholar, genius, philosopher, etc.

6. Holding a chief position; elevated: lofty: eminent; distingushed;
formost; principal; as, great men; the great seal; the great marshal,
etc.
He doth object I am too great of birth. Shak.

7. Entitled to earnest consideration; weighty; important; as, a great
argument, truth, or principle.

8. Pregnant; big (with young).
The ewes great with young. Ps. lxxviii. 71.

9. More than ordinary in degree; very considerable in degree; as, to
use great caution; to be in great pain.
We have all Great cause to give great thanks. Shak.

10. (Genealogy) Older, younger, or more remote, by single generation;
-- often used before grand to indicate one degree more remote in the
direct line of de scent; as, great-grandfather (a grandfather's or a
grand- mother's father), great-grandson, etc. Great bear (Astron.),
the constellation Ursa Major.
 -- Great cattle (Law), all manner of cattle except sheep and
yearlings. Wharton.
 -- Great charter (Eng. Hist.), Magna Charta.
 -- Great circle of a sphere, a circle the plane of which passes
through the center of the sphere.
 -- Great circle sailing, the process or art of conducting a ship on
a great circle of the globe or on the shortest arc between two
places.
 -- Great go, the final examination for a degree at the University of
Oxford, England; -- called also greats. T. Hughes.
 -- Great guns. (Naut.) See under Gun.
 -- The Great Lakes the large fresh-water lakes (Lakes Superior,
Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario) which lie on the northern borders
of the United States.
 -- Great master. Same as Grand master, under Grand.
 -- Great organ (Mus.), the largest and loudest of the three parts of
a grand organ (the others being the choir organ and the swell, and
sometimes the pedal organ or foot keys), It is played upon by a
separate keyboard, which has the middle position.
 -- The great powers (of Europe), in modern diplomacy, Great Britain,
France, Germany, Austria, Russia, and Italy.
 -- Great primer. See under Type.
 -- Great scale (Mus.), the complete scale; -- employed to designate
the entire series of musical sounds from lowest to highest.
 -- Great sea, the Mediterranean sea. In Chaucer both the Black and
the Mediterranean seas are so called.
 -- Great seal. (a) The principal seal of a kingdom or state. (b) In
Great Britain, the lord chancellor (who is custodian of this seal);
also, his office.
 -- Great tithes. See under Tithes.
 -- The great, the eminent, distinguished, or powerful.
 -- The Great Spirit, among the North American Indians, their chief
or principal deity.
 -- To be great (with one), to be intimate or familiar (with him).
Bacon.

GREAT
Great, n.

Defn: The whole.; the gross; as, a contract to build a ship by the
great.

GREAT-BELLIED
Great"-bel`lied, a.

Defn: Having a great belly, bigbellied; pregnant; teeming. Shak.

GREATCOAT
Great"coat", n.

Defn: An overcoat.

GREATEN
Great"en, v. t.

Defn: To make great; to aggrandize; to cause to increase in size; to
expand. [R.]
A minister's [business] is to greaten and exalt [his king]. Ken.

GREATEN
Great"en, v. i.

Defn: To become large; to dilate. [R.]
My blue eyes greatening in the looking-glass. Mrs. Browning.

GREAT-GRANDCHILD
Great"-grand"child`, n.

Defn: The child of one's grandson or granddaughter.

GREAT-GRANDDAUGHTER
Great"-grand"daugh`ter, n. Etym: [See Great, 10.]

Defn: A daughter of one's grandson or granddaughter.

GREAT-GRANDFATHER
Great"-grand"fa`ther, n. Etym: [See Great, 10.]

Defn: The father of one's grandfather or grandmother.

GREAT-GRANDMOTHER
Great"-grand"moth`er, n.

Defn: The mother of one's grandfather or grandmother.

GREAT-GRANDSON
Great"-grand"son`, n. Etym: [See Great, 10.]

Defn: A son of one's grandson or granddaughter.

GREAT-HEARTED
Great"-heart`ed, a.

1. High-spirited; fearless. [Obs.] Clarendon.

2. Generous; magnanimous; noble.

GREAT-HEARTEDNESS
Great"-heart`ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being greathearted; high-mindedness;
magnanimity.

GREATLY
Great"ly, adv.

1. In a great degree; much.
I will greatly multiply thy sorrow. Gen. iii. 16.

2. Nobly; illustriously; magnanimously.
By a high fate thou greatly didst expire. Dryden.

GREATNESS
Great"ness, n. Etym: [AS. greátnes.]

1. The state, condition, or quality of being great; as, greatness of
size, greatness of mind, power, etc.

2. Pride; haughtiness. [Obs.]It is not of pride or greatness that he
cometh not aboard your ships. Bacon.

GREAT WHITE WAY
Great White Way.

Defn: Broadway, in New York City, in the neighborhood chiefly
occupied by theaters, as from about 30th Street about 50th Street; --
so called from its brilliant illumination at night.

GREAVE
Greave, n.

Defn: A grove. [Obs.] Spenser.

GREAVE
Greave, n. Etym: [OF. greees; cf. Sp. grevas.]

Defn: Armor for the leg below the knee; -- usually in the plural.

GREAVE
Greave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Greaved (grevd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Greaving.] Etym: [From Greaves.] (Naut.)

Defn: To clean (a ship's bottom); to grave.

GREAVES
Greaves (grevz), n. pl. Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. grevar greaves, LG.
greven, G. griebe, also AS. greofa pot. Cf. Gravy.]

Defn: The sediment of melted tallow. It is made into cakes for dogs'
food. In Scotland it is called cracklings. [Written also graves.]

GREBE
Grebe (greb), n. Etym: [F. grbe, fr. Armor. krib comb; akin to kriben
crest, W. crib comb, crest. So called in allusion to the crest of one
species.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several swimming birds or divers, of the genus Colymbus
(formerly Podiceps), aud allied genera, found in the northern parts
of America, Europe, and Asia. They have strong, sharp bills, and
lobate toes.

GRECIAN
Gre"cian", a. Etym: [Cf. Greek.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Greece; Greek. Grecian bend, among women,
an affected carriage of the body, the upper part being inclined
forward. [Collog.] -- Grecian fire. See Greek fire, under Greek.

GRECIAN
Gre"cian, n.

1. A native or naturalized inhabitant of Greece; a Greek.

2. A jew who spoke Greek; a Hellenist. Acts vi. 1.

Note: The Greek word rendered Grecian in the Authorized Version of
the New Testament is translated Grecian Jew in the Revised Version.

6. One well versed in the Greek language, literature, or history. De
Quincey.

GRECISM
Gre"cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. grécisme.]

Defn: An idiom of the Greek language; a Hellenism. Addison.

GRECIZE
Gre"cize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grecized; p. pr. & vb. n. Grecizing.]
Etym: [Cf. F. gréciser.]

1. To render Grecian; also, to cause (a word or phrase in another
language) to take a Greek form; as, the name is Grecized. T. Warton.

2. To translate into Greek.

GRECIZE; GRECIANIZE
Gre"cize, Gre"cian*ize (, v. i.

Defn: To conform to the Greek custom, especially in speech.

GRECO-ROMAN
Gre"co-Ro"man, a.

Defn: Having characteristics that are partly Greek and partly Roman;
as, Greco-Roman architecture.

GRECQUE
Grecque (grêk), n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An ornament supposed to be of Greek origin, esp. a fret or
meander,

GREE
Gree, n. Etym: [F. gré. See Grateful, and cf. Agree.]

1. Good will; favor; pleasure; satisfaction; -- used esp. in such
phrases as: to take in gree; to accept in gree; that is, to take
favorably. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Accept in gree, my lord, the words I spoke. Fairfax.

2. Rank; degree; position. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer.
He is a shepherd great in gree. Spnser.

3. The prize; the honor of the day; as, to bear the gree, i. e., to
carry off the prize. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer.

GREE
Gree, v. i. Etym: [From Agree.]

Defn: To agree. [Obs.] Fuller.

GREE
Gree, n.; pl. Grees (grez); obs. plurals Greece (gres) Grice (grs or
grs), Grise, Grize (grz or grz), etc. Etym: [OF. gré, F. grade. See
Grade.]

Defn: A step.

GREECE
Greece, n. pl.

Defn: See Gree a step. [Obs.]

GREED
Greed, n. Etym: [Akin to Goth. grdus hunger, Icel. graedhr. sq.
root34. See Greedy.]

Defn: An eager desire or longing; greediness; as, a greed of gain.

GREEDILY
Greed"i*ly

Defn: , adv. In a greedy manner.

GREEDINESS
Greed"i*ness, n. Etym: [AS grdignes.]

Defn: The quality of being greedy; vehement and selfish desire.
Fox in stealth, wolf in greediness. Shak.

Syn.-- Ravenousness; voracity; eagerness; avidity.

GREEDY
Greed"y, a. [Compar. Greedier (-î-er); superl. Greediest.] Etym: [OE.
gredi, AS. grdig, grdig; akin to D. gretig, OS. grdag, OHG. grtag,
Dan. graadig, OSw. gradig, grdig, Icel. graugr, Goth. grdags greedy,
grdn to be hungry; cf. Skr. grdh to be greedy. Cf. Greed.]

1. Having a keen appetite for food or drink; ravenous; voracious;
very hungry; -- followed by of; as, a lion that is greedy of his
prey.

2. Having a keen desire for anything; vehemently desirous; eager to
obtain; avaricious; as, greedy of gain.

GREEDY-GUT
Greed"y-gut", n.

Defn: A glutton. [Low] Todd.

GREEGREE; GRIGRI
Gree"gree", Gri"gri", n.

Defn: An African talisman or Gri'gri' charm. A greegree man, an
African magician or fetich priest.

GREEK
Greek, a. Etym: [AS. grec, L. Graecus, Gr. : cf. F. grec. Cf.
Grecian.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Greece or the Greeks; Grecian. Greek
calends. See under Calends.
 -- Greek Church (Eccl. Hist.), the Eastern Church; that part of
Christendom which separated from the Roman or Western Church in the
ninth century. It comprises the great bulk of the Christian
population of Russia (of which this is the established church),
Greece, Moldavia, and Wallachia. The Greek Church is governed by
patriarchs and is called also the Byzantine Church.
 -- Greek cross. See Illust. (10) Of Cross.
 -- Greek Empire. See Byzantine Empire.
 -- Greek fire, a combustible composition which burns under water,
the constituents of which are supposed to be asphalt, with niter and
sulphur. Ure.
 -- Greek rose, the flower campion.

GREEK
Greek, n.

1. A native, or one of the people, of Greece; a Grecian; also, the
language of Greece.

2. A swindler; a knave; a cheat. [Slang]
Without a confederate the . . . game of baccarat does not . . . offer
many chances for the Greek. Sat. Rev.

3. Something unintelligible; as, it was all Greek to me. [Colloq.]

GREEK CALENDAR
Greek calendar.

1. Any of various calendars used by the ancient Greek states. The
Attic calendar divided the year into twelve months of 29 and 30 days,
as follows:

1. Hecatombæon (July-Aug.). 2. Metageitnion (Aug.-Sept.). 3.
Boëdromion (Sept.-Oct.). 4. Pyanepsion (Oct.-Nov.). 5. Mæmacterion
(Nov.-Dec.). 6. Poseideon (Dec.-Jan.). 7. Gamelion (Jan.-Feb.). 8.
Anthesterion (Feb.-Mar.). 9. Elaphebolion (Mar.-Apr.). 10. Munychion
(Apr.-May). 11. Thargelion (May-June). 12. Scirophorion (June-July).

A fixed relation to the seasons was maintained by introducing an
intercalary month, "the second Poseideon," at first in an inexact
way, afterward in years 3, 5, 8, 11, 13, 16, 19 of the Metonic cycle.
Dates were reckoned in Olympiads.

2.  The Julian calendar, used in the Greek Church.

GREEK CALENDS; GREEK KALENDS
Greek calends or kalends.

Defn: A time that will never come, as the Greeks had no calends.

GREEKESS
Greek"ess, n.

Defn: A female Greek. [R.]

GREEKISH
Greek"ish, a. Etym: [Cf. AS. Grecisc.]

Defn: Peculiar to Greece.

GREEKLING
Greek"ling, n.

Defn: A little Greek, or one of small esteem or pretensions. B.
Jonson.

GREEN
Green, a. [Compar. Greener (; superl. Greenest.] Etym: [OE. grene,
AS. grne; akin to D. groen, OS. grni, OHG. gruoni, G. grn, Dan. & Sw.
grn, Icel. grnn; fr. the root of E. grow. See Grow.]

1. Having the color of grass when fresh and growing; resembling that
color of the solar spectrum which is between the yellow and the blue;
verdant; emerald.

2. Having a sickly color; wan.
To look so green and pale. Shak.

3. Full of life aud vigor; fresh and vigorous; new; recent; as, a
green manhood; a green wound.
As valid against such an old and beneficent government as against . .
. the greenest usurpation. Burke.

4. Not ripe; immature; not fully grown or ripened; as, green fruit,
corn, vegetables, etc.

5. Not roasted; half raw. [R.]
We say the meat is green when half roasted. L. Watts.

6. Immature in age or experience; young; raw; not trained; awkward;
as, green in years or judgment.
I might be angry with the officious zeal which supposes that its
green conceptions can instruct my gray hairs. Sir W. Scott.

7. Not seasoned; not dry; containing its natural juices; as, green
wood, timber, etc. Shak. Green brier (Bot.), a thorny climbing shrub
(Emilaz rotundifolia) having a yellowish green stem and thick leaves,
with small clusters of flowers, common in the United States; --
called also cat brier.
 -- Green con (Zoöl.), the pollock.
 -- Green crab (Zoöl.), an edible, shore crab (Carcinus menas) of
Europe and America; -- in New England locally named joe-rocker.
 -- Green crop, a crop used for food while in a growing or unripe
state, as distingushed from a grain crop, root crop, etc.
 -- Green diallage. (Min.) (a) Diallage, a variety of pyroxene. (b)
Smaragdite.
 -- Green dragon (Bot.), a North American herbaceous plant (Arisæma
Dracontium), resembling the Indian turnip; -- called also dragon
root.
 -- Green earth (Min.), a variety of glauconite, found in cavities in
amygdaloid and other eruptive rock, and used as a pigment by artists;
-- called also mountain green.
 -- Green ebony. (a) A south American tree (Jacaranda ovalifolia),
having a greenish wood, used for rulers, turned and inlaid work, and
in dyeing. (b) The West Indian green ebony. See Ebony.
 -- Green fire (Pyrotech.), a composition which burns with a green
flame. It consists of sulphur and potassium chlorate, with some salt
of barium (usually the nitrate), to which the color of the flame is
due.
 -- Green fly (Zoöl.), any green species of plant lice or aphids,
esp. those that infest greenhouse plants.
 -- Green gage, (Bot.) See Greengage, in the Vocabulary.
 -- Green gland (Zoöl.), one of a pair of large green glands in
Crustacea, supposed to serve as kidneys. They have their outlets at
the bases of the larger antennæ.
 -- Green hand, a novice. [Colloq.] -- Green heart (Bot.), the wood
of a lauraceous tree found in the West Indies and in South America,
used for shipbuilding or turnery. The green heart of Jamaica and
Guiana is the Nectandra Rodioei, that of Martinique is the Colubrina
ferruginosa.
 -- Green iron ore (Min.) dufrenite.
 -- Green laver (Bot.), an edible seaweed (Ulva latissima); -- called
also green sloke.
 -- Green lead ore (Min.), pyromorphite.
 -- Green linnet (Zoöl.), the greenfinch.
 -- Green looper (Zoöl.), the cankerworm.
 -- Green marble (Min.), serpentine.
 -- Green mineral, a carbonate of copper, used as a pigment. See
Greengill.
 -- Green monkey (Zoöl.) a West African long-tailed monkey
(Cercopithecus callitrichus), very commonly tamed, and trained to
perform tricks. It was introduced into the West Indies early in the
last century, and has become very abundant there.
 -- Green salt of Magnus (Old Chem.), a dark green crystalline salt,
consisting of ammonia united with certain chlorides of platinum.
 -- Green sand (Founding) molding sand used for a mold while slightly
damp, and not dried before the cast is made.
 -- Green sea (Naut.), a wave that breaks in a solid mass on a
vessel's deck.
 -- Green sickness (Med.), chlorosis.
 -- Green snake (Zoöl.), one of two harmless American snakes
(Cyclophis vernalis, and C. æstivus). They are bright green in color.
 -- Green turtle (Zoöl.), an edible marine turtle. See Turtle.
 -- Green vitriol. (a) (Chem.) Sulphate of iron; a light green
crystalline substance, very extensively used in the preparation of
inks, dyes, mordants, etc. (b) (Min.) Same as copperas, melanterite
and sulphate of iron.
 -- Green ware, articles of pottery molded and shaped, but not yet
baked.
 -- Green woodpecker (Zoöl.), a common European woodpecker (Picus
viridis); -- called also yaffle.

GREEN
Green (gren), n.

1. The color of growing plants; the color of the solar spectrum
intermediate between the yellow and the blue.

2. A grassy plain or plat; a piece of ground covered with verdant
herbage; as, the village green.
O'er the smooth enameled green. Milton.

3. Fresh leaves or branches of trees or other plants; wreaths; --
usually in the plural.
In that soft season when descending showers Call forth the greens,
and wake the rising flowers. Pope.

4. pl. Leaves and stems of young plants, as spinach, beets, etc.,
which in their green state are boiled for food.

5. Any substance or pigment of a green color. Alkali green (Chem.),
an alkali salt of a sulphonic acid derivative of a complex aniline
dye, resembling emerald green; -- called also Helvetia green.--
Berlin green. (Chem.) See under Berlin.
 -- Brilliant green (Chem.), a complex aniline dye, resembling
emerald green in composition.
 -- Brunswick green an oxychloride of copper.
 -- Chrome green. See under Chrome.
 -- Emerald green. (Chem.) (a) A complex basic derivative of aniline
produced as a metallic, green crystalline substance, and used for
dyeing silk, wool, and mordanted vegetable fiber a brilliant green; -
- called also aldehyde green, acid green, malachite green, Victoria
green, solid green, etc. It is usually found as a double chloride,
with zinc chloride, or as an oxalate. (b) See Paris green (below).
 -- Gaignet's green (Chem.) a green pigment employed by the French
artist, Adrian Gusgnet, and consisting essentially of a basic hydrate
of chromium.
 -- Methyl green (Chem.), an artificial rosaniline dyestuff, obtained
as a green substance having a brilliant yellow luster; -- called also
light-green.
 -- Mineral green. See under Mineral.
 -- Mountain green. See Green earth, under Green, a.
 -- Paris green (Chem.), a poisonous green powder, consisting of a
mixture of several double salts of the acetate and arsenite of
copper. It has found very extensive use as a pigment for wall paper,
artificial flowers, etc., but particularly as an exterminator of
insects, as the potato bug; -- called also Schweinfurth green,
imperial green, Vienna green, emerald qreen, and mitis green.
 -- Scheele's green (Chem.), a green pigment, consisting essentially
of a hydrous arsenite of copper; -- called also Swedish green. It may
enter into various pigments called parrot green, pickel green,
Brunswick green, nereid green, or emerald green.

GREEN
Green, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Greened (great): p. pr. & vb. n.
Greening.]

Defn: To make green.
Great spring before Greened all the year. Thomson.

GREEN
Green, v. i.

Defn: To become or grow green. Tennyson.
By greening slope and singing flood. Whittier.

GREENBACK
Green"back", n.

Defn: One of the legal tender notes of the United States; -- first
issued in 1862, and having the devices on the back printed with green
ink, to prevent alterations and counterfeits.

GREENBACKER
Green"back"er, n.

Defn: One of those who supported greenback or paper money, and
opposed the resumption of specie payments. [Colloq. U. S.]

GREENBONE
Green"bone, n. Etym: [So named because the bones are green when
boiled.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Any garfish (Belone or Tylosurus).
(b) The European eelpout.

GREEN-BROOM
Green"-broom`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Genista (G. tinctoria); dyer's weed; --
called also greenweed.

GREENCLOTH
Green"cloth` (-klôth`; 115), n.

Defn: A board or court of justice formerly held in the counting house
of the British sovereign's household, composed of the lord steward
and his officers, and having cognizance of matters of justice in the
household, with power to correct offenders and keep the peace within
the verge of the palace, which extends two hundred yards beyond the
gatees.

GREENERY
Green"er*y, n.

Defn: Green plants; verdure.
A pretty little one-storied abode, so rural, so smothered in
greenery. J. Ingelow.

GREEN-EYED
Green"-eyed, a.

1. Having green eyes.

2. Seeing everything through a medium which discolors or distorts.
"Green-eyed jealousy." Shak.

GREENFINCH
Green"finch`, n. (Zoöl.)

1. A European finch (Ligurinus chloris); -- called also green bird,
green linnet, green grosbeak, green olf, greeny, and peasweep.

2. The Texas sparrow (Embernagra rufivirgata), in which the general
color is olive green, with four rufous stripes on the head.

GREENFISH
Green"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Bluefish, and Pollock.

GREENGAGE
Green"gage`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of plum of medium size, roundish shape, greenish flesh,
and delicious flavor. It is called in France Reine Claude, after the
queen of Francis I. See Gage.

GREENGILL
Green"gill`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An oyster which has the gills tinged with a green pigment, said
to be due to an abnormal condition of the blood.

GREENGROCER
Green"gro`cer, n.

Defn: A retailer of vegetables or fruits in their fresh or green
state.

GREENHEAD
Green"head`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The mallard.
(b) The striped bass. See Bass.

GREENHEAD; GREENHOOD
Green"head, Green"hood, n.

Defn: A state of greenness; verdancy. Chaucer.

GREENHORN
Green"horn`, n.

Defn: A raw, inexperienced person; one easily imposed upon. W.
Irving.

GREENHOUSE
Green"house`, n.

Defn: A house in which tender plants are cultivated and sheltered
from the weather.

GREENING
Green"ing, n.

Defn: A greenish apple, of several varieties, among which the Rhode
Island greening is the best known for its fine-grained acid flesh and
its excellent keeping quality.

GREENISH
Green"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat green; having a tinge of green; as, a greenish yellow.
 -- Green"ish*ness, n.

GREENLANDER
Green"land*er, n.

Defn: A native of Greenland.

GREEN-LEEK
Green"-leek`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Australian parrakeet (Polytelis Barrabandi); -- called also
the scarlet-breasted parrot.

GREENLET
Green"let, n.

Defn: l. (Zoöl.) One of numerous species of small American singing
birds, of the genus Vireo, as the solitary, or blue-headed (Vireo
solitarius); the brotherly-love (V. Philadelphicus); the warbling
greenlet (V. gilvus); the yellow-throated greenlet (V. flavifrons)
and others. See Vireo.

2. (Zoöl,) Any species of Cyclorhis, a genus of tropical American
birds allied to the tits.

GREENLY
Green"ly, adv.

Defn: With a green color; newly; freshly, immaturely.
 -- a.

Defn: Of a green color. [Obs.]

GREENNESS
Green"ness, n. Etym: [AS. grnnes. See Green.]

1. The quality of being green; viridity; verdancy; as, the greenness
of grass, or of a meadow.

2. Freshness; vigor; newness.

3. Immaturity; unripeness; as, the greenness of fruit; inexperience;
as, the greenness of youth.

GREENOCKITE
Green"ock*ite, n. Etym: [Named after Lord Greenock.] (Min.)

Defn: Native cadmium sulphide, a mineral occurring in yellow
hexagonal crystals, also as an earthy incrustation.

GREENROOM
Green"room` (gren"room`), n.

Defn: The retiring room of actors and actresses in a theater.

GREENSAND
Green"sand` (-s, n. (Geol.)

Defn: A variety of sandstone, usually imperfectly consolidated,
consisting largely of glauconite, a silicate of iron and potash of a
green color, mixed with sand and a trace of phosphate of lime.

Note: Greensand is often called marl, because it is a useful
fertilizer. The greensand beds of the American Cretaceous belong
mostly to the Upper Cretaceous.

GREENSHANK
Green"shank`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European sandpiper or snipe (Totanus canescens); -- called
also greater plover.

GREEN-STALL
Green"-stall`, n.

Defn: A stall at which greens and fresh vegetables are exposed for
sale.

GREENSTONE
Green"stone` (gren"ston`), n. Etym: [So called from a tinge of green
in the color.] (Geol.)

Defn: A name formerly applied rather loosely to certain dark-colored
igneous rocks, including diorite, diabase, etc.

GREENSWARD
Green"sward` (-sward') n.

Defn: Turf green with grass.

GREENTH
Greenth (grenth), n. Etym: [Cf. Growth.]

Defn: The state or quality of being green; verdure. [R.]
The greenth of summer. G. Eliot.

GREENWEED
Green"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Greenbroom.

GREENWOOD
Green"wood`, n.

Defn: A forest as it appears is spring and summer.

GREENWOOD
Green"wood`, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a greenwood; as, a greenwood shade. Dryden.

GREET
Greet, a.

Defn: Great. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GREET
Greet, v. i. Etym: [OE. greten, AS. grtan, grlan; akin to Icel.
grata, Sw. gita, Dan. grde, Goth. grctan; cf. Skr. hrd to sound,
roar. sq. root50.]

Defn: To weep; to cry; to lament. [Obs. or Scot.] [Written also
greit.] Spenser.

GREET
Greet, n.

Defn: Mourning. [Obs.] Spenser.

GREET
Greet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Greeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Greeting.] Etym:
[OE. greten, AS. grtan to address, approach; akin to OS. gr, LG
gröten, D. groeten, OHG. gruozzen, G. grüssen.]

1. To address with salutations or expressions of kind wishes; to
salute; to hail; to welcome; to accost with friendship; to pay
respects or compliments to, either personally or through the
intervention of another, or by writing or token.
My lord, the mayor of London comes to greet you. Shak.

2. To come upon, or meet, as with something that makes the heart
glad.
In vain the spring my senses greets. Addison.

3. To accost; to address. Pope.

GREET
Greet, v. i.

Defn: To meet and give salutations.
There greet in silence, as the dead are wont, And sleep in peace.
Shak.

GREET
Greet, n.

Defn: Greeting. [Obs.] F. Beaumont.

GREETER
Greet"er, n.

Defn: One who greets or salutes another.

GREETER
Greet"er, n.

Defn: One who weeps or mourns. [Obs.]

GREETING
Greet"ing, n.

Defn: Expression of kindness or joy; salutation at meeting; a
compliment from one absent.
Write to him . . . gentle adieus and greetings. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Salutation; salute; compliment.

GREEVE
Greeve, n.

Defn: See Grieve, an overseer.

GREEZE
Greeze, n.

Defn: A step. See Gree, a step. [Obs.]
The top of the ladder, or first greeze, is this. Latimer.

GREFFIER
Gref"fi*er, n. Etym: [F., from LL. grafarius, graphiarius, fr. L.
graphium, a writing style; cf. F. greffe a record office. See Graft,
and cf. Graffer.]

Defn: A registrar or recorder; a notary. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

GREGAL
Gre"gal, a. Etym: [L. gregalis, fr. grex, gregis, herd.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, a flock.
For this gregal conformity there is an excuse. W. S. Mayo.

GREGARIAN
Gre*ga"ri*an, a.

Defn: Gregarious; belonging to the herd or common sort; common.
[Obs.] "The gregarian soldiers." Howell.

GREGARINE; GREGARINAE
Greg`a*ri"nae, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gregarina the typical genus,
fr. L. gregarius. See Gregarious.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Protozoa, allied to the Rhizopoda, and parasitic in
other animals, as in the earthworm, lobster, etc. When adult, they
have a small, wormlike body inclosing a nucleus, but without external
organs; in one of the young stages, they are amoebiform; -- called
also Gregarinida, and Gregarinaria.

GREGARINE
Greg"a*rine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Gregarinæ.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Gregarinæ.

GREGARINIDA
Greg`a*rin"i*da

Defn: Gregarinæ.

GREGARIOUS
Gre*ga"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. gregarius, fr. grex, gregis, herd; cf.
Gr. jar to approach. Cf. Congregate, Egregious.]

Defn: Habitually living or moving in flocks or herds; tending to
flock or herd together; not habitually solitary or living alone.
Burke.
No birds of prey are gregarious. Ray.
-- Gre*ga"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Gre-ga'ri-ous-ness, n.

GREGE; GREGGE
Grege, Greg"ge (, v. t. Etym: [OE. gregier to burden.]

Defn: To make heavy; to increase. [Obs.] Wyclif.

GREGGOE; GREGO
Greg"goe, Gre"go, n. Etym: [Prob. fr, It. Greco Greek, or Sp. Griego,
or Pg. Grego.]

Defn: A short jacket or cloak, made of very thick, coarse cloth, with
a hood attached, worn by the Greeks and others in the Levant.
[Written also griego.]

GREGORIAN
Gre*go"ri*an, a. Etym: [NL. Gregorianus, fr. Gregorius Gregory, Gr.
grégorien.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or originated by, some person named Gregory,
especially one of the popes of that name. Gregorian calendar, the
calendar as reformed by Pope Gregory XIII. in 1582, including the
method of adjusting the leap years so as to harmonize the civil year
with the solar, and also the regulation of the time of Easter and the
movable feasts by means of epochs. See Gregorian year (below).
 -- Gregorian chant (Mus.), plain song, or canto fermo, a kind of
unisonous music, according to the eight celebrated church modes, as
arranged and prescribed by Pope Gregory I. (called "the Great") in
the 6th century.
 -- Gregorian modes, the musical scales ordained by Pope Gregory the
Great, and named after the ancient Greek scales, as Dorian, Lydian,
etc.
 -- Gregorian telescope (Opt.), a form of reflecting telescope, named
from Prof. James Gregory, of Edinburgh, who perfected it in 1663. A
small concave mirror in the axis of this telescope, having its focus
coincident with that of the large reflector, transmits the light
received from the latter back through a hole in its center to the
eyepiece placed behind it.
 -- Gregorian year, the year as now reckoned according to the
Gregorian calendar. Thus, every year, of the current reckoning, which
is divisible by 4, except those divisible by 100 aud not by 400, has
366 days; all other years have 365 days. See Bissextile, and Note
under Style, n., 7.

GREILLADE
Greil"lade, n. (Metal.)

Defn: Iron ore in coarse powder, prepared for reduction by the
Catalan process.

GREISEN
Grei"sen, n. (Min.)

Defn: A crystalline rock consisting of quarts and mica, common in the
tin regions of Cornwall and Saxony.

GREIT
Greit, v. i.

Defn: See Greet, to weep.

GREITH
Greith, v. t. Etym: [Icel. grcta: cf. AS. gerdan to arrange; pref.
ge- + r ready. Cf. Ready.]

Defn: To make ready; -- often used reflexively. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GREITH
Greith, n. Etym: [Icel. grcii. See Greith, v.]

Defn: Goods; furniture. [Obs.]

Note: See Graith.

GREMIAL
Gre"mi*al, a. Etym: [L. gremium lap, bosom.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lap or bosom. [R.]

GREMIAL
Gre"mi*al, n.

1. A bosom friend. [Obs.] Fuller.

2. (Ecol.)

Defn: A cloth, often adorned with gold or silver lace, placed on the
bishop's lap while he sits in celebrating mass, or in ordaining
priests.

GRENADE
Gre*nade", n. Etym: [F. grenade a pomegranate, a grenade, or Sp.
granada; orig., filled with seeds. So called from the resemblanse of
its shape to a pomegranate. See Carnet, Grain a kernel, and cf.
Pomegranate.] (Min.)

Defn: A hollow ball or shell of iron filled with powder of other
explosive, ignited by means of a fuse, and thrown from the hand among
enemies. Hand grenade. (a) A small grenade of iron or glass, usually
about two and a half inches in diameter, to be thrown from the hand
into the head of a sap, trenches, covered way, or upon besiegers
mounting a breach. (b) A portable fire extinguisher consisting of a
glass bottle containing water and gas. It is thrown into the flames.
Called also fire grenade. Rampart grenades, grenades of various
sizes, which, when used, are rolled over the pararapet in a trough.

GRENADIER
Gren`a*dier", n. Etym: [F. grenadier. See Grenade.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: Originaly, a soldier who carried and threw grenades; afterward,
one of a company attached to each regiment or battalion, taking post
on the right of the line, and wearing a peculiar uniform. In modern
times, a member of a special regiment or corps; as, a grenadier of
the guard of Napoleon I. one of the regiment of Grenadier Guards of
the British army, etc.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any marine fish of the genus Macrurus, in which the body and
tail taper to a point; they mostly inhabit the deep sea; -- called
also onion fish, and rat-tail fish.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bright-colored South African grosbeak (Pyromelana orix),
having the back red and the lower parts black.

GRENADILLO
Gren`a*dil"lo, n. Etym: [Sp. granadillo.]

Defn: A handsome tropical American wood, much used for making flutes
and other wind instruments; -- called also Grenada cocos, or cocus,
and red ebony.

GRENADINE
Gren`a*dine", n. Etym: [F.]

1. A thin gauzelike fabric of silk or wool, for women's wear.

2. A trade name for a dyestuff, consisting essentially of impure
fuchsine.

GRENADO
Gre*na"do, n.

Defn: Same as Grenade.

GRENE
Grene, a.

Defn: Green. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GRES
Gres, n.

Defn: Grass. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GRESSORIAL; GRESSORIOUS
Gres*so"ri*al, Gres*so"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. gressus, p. p. of gradi
to step, go.] (Zool.)

Defn: Adapted for walking; anisodactylous; as the feet of certain
birds and insects. See Illust. under Aves.

GRET; GRETE
Gret, Grete (, a.

Defn: Great. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GRETTO
Gret"to, obs.

Defn: imp. of Greet, to salute.

GREVE
Greve, n.

Defn: A grove. [Obs.] Chaucer.

GREW
Grew,

Defn: imp. of Grow.

GREWSOME; GRUESOME
Grew"some

Defn: , Grue"some, a. Etym: [From a word akin to Dan. gru horror,
terror + -some; cf. D. gruwzaam, G. grausam. Cf. Grisly.]

Defn: Ugly; frightful.
Grewsome sights of war. C. Kingsley.

GREY
Grey, a.

Defn: See Gray (the correct orthography).

GREYHOUND
Grey"hound`, n. Etym: [OE. graihund, greihound, greahund, grihond,
Icel. greyhundr; grey greyhound + hundr dog; cf. AS. grghund. The
origin of the first syllable is unknown.]

Defn: A slender, graceful breed of dogs, remarkable for keen sight
and swiftness. It is one of the oldest varieties known, and is
figured on the Egyptian monuments. [Written also grayhound.]

GREYLAG
Grey"lag`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Graylag.

GRIBBLE
Grib"ble, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. grib to bite.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small marine isopod crustacean (Limnoria lignorum or L.
terebrans), which burrows into and rapidly destroys submerged timber,
such as the piles of wharves, both in Europe and America.

GRICE
Grice, n. Etym: [OE. gris, grise; of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. grss,
Sw. gris, Dan. grus, also Gr. , Skr. ghrshvi, boar. Cf. Grise,
Griskin.]

Defn: A little pig. [Written also grise.] [Scot.]

GRICE
Grice, n.

Defn: See Gree, a step. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

GRID
Grid, n.

Defn: A grating of thin parallel bars, similar to a gridiron.

GRIDDLE
Grid"dle, n. Etym: [OE. gredil, gredl, gridel, of Celtic origin; cf.
W. greidell, Ir. greideal, greideil, griddle, gridiron, greadaim I
burn, scorch. Cf. Gridiron.]

1. An iron plate or pan used for cooking cakes.

2. A sieve with a wire bottom, used by miners.

GRIDDLECAKE
Grid"dle*cake`, n.

Defn: A cake baked or fried on a griddle, esp. a thin batter cake, as
of buckwheat or common flour.

GRIDE
Gride, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Grided; p. pr. & vb. n. Griding.] Etym:
[For gird, properly, to strike with a rod. See Yard a measure, and
cf. Grid to strike, sneer.]

Defn: To cut with a grating sound; to cut; to penetrate or pierce
harshly; as, the griding sword. Milton.
That through his thigh the mortal steel did gride. Spenser.

GRIDE
Gride, n.

Defn: A harsh scraping or cutting; a grating.
The gride of hatchets fiercely thrown. On wigwam log, and tree, and
stone. Whittier.

GRIDELIN
Grid"e*lin, n. Etym: [F. gris de lin gray of flax, flax gray.]

Defn: A color mixed of white, and red, or a gray violet. [Written
also gredaline, grizelin.] Dryden.

GRIDIRON
Grid"i`ron, n. Etym: [OE. gredire, gredirne, from tthe same source as
E. griddle, but the ending wass confused with E. iron. See Griddle.]

1. A grated iron utensil for broiling flesh and fish over coals.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: An openwork frame on which vessels are placed for examination,
cleaning, and repairs. 3. (Sport)

Defn: A football field. Gridiron pendulum. See under Pendulum.
 -- Gridiron valve (Steam Engine), a slide valve with several
parallel perforations corresponding to openings in the seat on which
the valve moves.

GRIEF
Grief, n. Etym: [OE. grief, gref, OF. grief, gref, F. grief, L.
gravis heavy; akin to Gr. , Skr. guru, Goth. karus. Cf. Barometer,
Grave, a., Grieve, Gooroo.]

1. Pain of mind on account of something in the past; mental suffering
arising from any cause, as misfortune, loss of friends, misconduct of
one's self or others, etc.; sorrow; sadness.
The mother was so afflicted at the loss of a fine boy, . . . that she
died for grief of it. Addison.

2. Cause of sorrow or pain; that which afficts or distresses; trial;
grievance.
Be factious for redress of all these griefs. Shak.

3. Physical pain, or a cause of it; malady. [R.]
This grief (cancerous ulcers) hastened the end of that famous
mathematician, Mr. Harriot. Wood.
To come to grief, to meet with calamity, accident, defeat, ruin,
etc., causing grief; to turn out badly. [Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- Affiction; sorrow; distress; sadness; trial; grievance. Grief,
Sorrow, Sadness. Sorrow is the generic term; grief is sorrow for some
definite cause -- one which commenced, at least, in the past; sadness
is applied to a permanent mood of the mind. Sorrow is transient in
many cases; but the grief of a mother for the loss of a favorite
child too often turns into habitual sadness. "Grief is sometimes
considered as synonymous with sorrow; and in this case we speak of
the transports of grief. At other times it expresses more silent,
deep, and painful affections, such as are inspired by domestic
calamities, particularly by the loss of friends and relatives, or by
the distress, either of body or mind, experienced by those whom we
love and value." Cogan.See Affliction.

GRIEFFUL
Grief"ful, a.

Defn: Full of grief or sorrow. Sackvingle.

GRIEFLESS
Grief"less, a.

Defn: Without grief. Huloet.

GRIEGO
Grie"go, n.

Defn: See Greggoe.

GRIEVABLE
Griev"a*ble, a.

Defn: Lamentable. [Obs.]

GRIEVANCE
Griev"ance, n. Etym: [OF. grcvance. See Grieve, v. t.]

1. A cause of uneasiness and complaint; a wrong done and suffered;
that which gives ground for remonstrance or resistance, as arising
from injustice, tyranny, etc.; injury.

2. Grieving; grief; affliction.
The . . . grievance of a mind unreasonably yoked. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Burden; oppression; hardship; trouble.

GRIEVANCER
Griev"an*cer, n.

Defn: One who occasions a grievance; one who gives ground for
complaint. [Obs.]
Petition . . . against the bishops as grand grievancers. Fuller.

GRIEVE; GREEVE
Grieve, Greeve, n. Etym: [AS. ger. Cf. Reeve an officer.]

Defn: A manager of a farm, or overseer of any work; a reeve; a
manorial bailiff. [Scot.]
Their children were horsewhipped by the grieve. Sir W. Scott.

GRIEVE
Grieve, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grieved; p. pr. & vb. n. Grieving.] Etym:
[OE. greven, OF. grever, fr. L. gravare to burden, oppress, fr.
gravis heavy. See Grief.]

1. To occasion grief to; to wound the sensibilities of; to make
sorrowful; to cause to suffer; to affect; to hurt; to try.
Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God. Eph. iv. 30.
The maidens grieved themselves at my concern. Cowper,

2. To sorrow over; as, to grieve one's fate. [R.]

GRIEVE
Grieve, v. i.

Defn: To feel grief; to be in pain of mind on account of an evil; to
sorrow; to mourn; -- often followed by at, for, or over.
Do not you grieve at this. Shak.

GRIEVER
Griev"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, grieves.

GRIEVING
Griev"ing, a.

Defn: Sad; sorrowful; causing grief.
 -- n.

Defn: The act of causing grief; the state of being grieved.
 -- Griev'ing-ly, adv. Shak.

GRIEVOUS
Griev"ous, a. Etym: [OF. grevous, grevos, LL. gravosus. See Grief.]

1. Causing grief or sorrow; painful; afflictive; hard to bear;
offensive; harmful.
The famine was grievous in the land. Gen. xii. 10.
The thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight. Gen. xxi 11.

2. Characterized by great atrocity; heinous; aggravated; flagitious;
as, a grievous sin. Gen. xviii. 20.

3. Full of, or expressing, grief; showing great sorrow or affliction;
as, a grievous cry.
 -- Griev"ous*ly, adv.
 -- Griev"ous*ness, n.

GRIFF
Griff, n. Etym: [Cf. Gripe.]

1. Grasp; reach. [Obs.]
A vein of gold ore within one spade's griff. Holland.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. griffe, G. griff, prop., a grasping.] (Weaving)

Defn: An arrangement of parallel bars for lifting the hooked wires
which raise the warp threads in a loom for weaving figured goods.
Knight.

GRIFFE
Griffe, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The offspring of a mulatto woman and a negro; also, a mulatto.
[Local, U. S.]

GRIFFIN
Grif"fin, n.

Defn: An Anglo-Indian name for a person just arrived from Europe. H.
Kingsley.

GRIFFIN; GRIFFON
Grif"fin, Grif"fon, n. Etym: [OE. griffin, griffon, griffoun, F.
griffon, fr. L. gryphus, equiv to gryps, Gr.

1. (Myth.)

Defn: A fabulous monster, half lion and half eagle. It is often
represented in Grecian and Roman works of art.

2. (Her.)

Defn: A representation of this creature as an heraldic charge.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of large vulture (Gyps fulvus) found in the
mountainous parts of Southern Europe, North Africa, and Asia Minor; -
- called also gripe, and grype. It is supposed to be the "eagle" of
the Bible. The bearded griffin is the lammergeir. [Written also
gryphon.]

4. An English early apple.

GRIG
Grig, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. kräk little creature, reptile; or D. kriek
cricket, E. cricket.]

1. (Zoöl.)
(a) A cricket or grasshopper. [Prov. Eng.]
(b) Any small eel.
(c) The broad-nosed eel See Glut. [Prov. Eng.]

2. Heath. [Prov. Eng.] Audrey. As merry as a grig Etym: [etymology
uncertain], a saying supposed by some to be a corruption of "As merry
as a Greek; " by others, to be an allusion to the cricket.

GRIL
Gril, a. Etym: [OE. gril harsh; akin to G. grell offending the ear or
eye, shrill, dazzling, MHG. grel angry; cf. AS. gallan to provoke.]

Defn: Harah; hard; severe; stern; rough. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

GRILL
Grill, n. Etym: [F. gril. See Grill, v. t.]

1. A gridiron.
[They] make grills of [wood] to broil their meat. Cotton.

2. That which is broiled on a gridiron, as meat, fish, etc.

GRILL
Grill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grilled; p. pr. & vb. n. Grilling.] Etym:
[F. griller, fr. gril gridiron, OF. graïl, L. craticulum for
craticula fine hurdlework, a small gridiron, dim. of crates hurdle.
See Grate, n.]

1. To broil on a grill or gridiron. Boiling of men in caldrons,
grilling them on gridirons. Marvell.

2. To torment, as if by broiling. Dickens.

GRILLADE
Gril*lade" (, n. Etym: [F. See Grill, v. t.]

Defn: The act of grilling; also, that which is grilled.

GRILLAGE
Gril"lage, n. Etym: [F.] (Hydraulic Eagin.)

Defn: A framework of sleepers and crossbeams forming a foundation in
marshy or treacherous soil.

GRILLE
Grille, a. Etym: [F. See Grill, v. t.]

Defn: A lattice or grating.
The grille which formed part of the gate. L. Oliphant.

GRILLROOM
Grill"room`, n.

Defn: A room specially fitted for broiling food, esp. one in a
restaurant, hotel, or clubhouse, arranged for prompt service.

GRILLY
Gril"ly, v. t. Etym: [See Grill, v. t.]

Defn: To broil; to grill; hence, To harass. [Obs.] Hudibras.

GRILSE
Grilse, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young salmon after its first return from the sea.

GRIM
Grim, a. [Compar. Grimmer (-mer); superl. Grimmest (.] Etym: [AS.
grim; akin to G. grimm, equiv. to G. & D. grimmig, Dan. grim, grum,
Sw. grym, Icel. grimmr, G. gram grief, as adj., hostile; cf. Gr.

Defn: Of forbidding or fear-inspiring aspect; fierce; stern; surly;
cruel; frightful; horrible.
Whose grim aspect sets every joint a-shaking. Shak
.
The ridges of grim war. Milton.

Syn.-- Fierce; ferocious; furious; horrid; horrible; frightful;
ghastly; grisly; hideous; stern; sullen; sour.

GRIMACE
Gri*mace", n. Etym: [F., prob. of Teutonic origin; cf. AS. gr mask,
specter, Ical. gr mask, hood, perh. akin to E. grin.]

Defn: A distortion of the countenance, whether habitual, from
affectation, or momentary aad occasional, to express some feeling, as
contempt, disapprobation, complacency, etc.; a smirk; a made-up face.
Moving his face into such a hideons grimace, that every feature of it
appeared under a different distortion. Addison.

Note: "Half the French words used affectedly by Melantha in Dryden's
"Marriage a-la-Mode," as innovations in our language, are now in
common usa: chagrin, double--entendre, éclaircissement, embarras,
équivoque, foible, grimace, naïvete, ridicule. All these words, which
she learns by heart to use occasionally, are now in common use." I.
Disraeli.

GRIMACE
Gri*mace", v. i.

Defn: To make grimaces; to distort one's face; to make faces. H.
Martineau.

GRIMACED
Gri*maced", a.

Defn: Distorted; crabbed.

GRIMALKIN
Gri*mal"kin, n. Etym: [For graymalkin; gray + malkin.]

Defn: An old cat, esp. a she-cat. J. Philips.

GRIME
Grime, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. grim, griim, lampblack, soot, grime, Icel.
gr mask, sort of hood, OD. grijmsel, grimsel, soot, smut, and E.
grimace.]

Defn: Foul matter; dirt, rubbed in; sullying blackness, deeply
ingrained.

GRIME
Grime, v. t.

Defn: To sully or soil deeply; to dirt. Shak.

GRIMILY
Grim"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a grimy manner.

GRIMINESS
Grim"i*ness n.

Defn: The state of being grimy.

GRIMLY
Grim"ly, a.

Defn: Grim; hideous; stern. [R.]
In glided Margaret's grimly ghost, And stood at William's feet. D.
Mallet.

GRIMLY
Grim"ly, adv.

Defn: In a grim manner; fiercely. Shak.

GRIMME
Grimme, n. Etym: [Cf. F. grimme.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West African antelope (Cephalophus rufilotus) of a deep bay
color, with a broad dorsal stripe of black; -- called also
conquetoon.

GRIMNESS
Grim"ness, n. Etym: [AS. grimnes.]

Defn: Fierceness of look; sternness; crabbedness; forbiddingness.

GRIMSIR
Grim"sir, n.

Defn: A stern man. [Obs.] Burton.

GRIMY
Grim"y, a. [Compar. Grimier; superl. Grimiest.]

Defn: Full of grime; begrimed; dirty; foul.

GRIN
Grin, n. Etym: [AS. grin.]

Defn: A snare; a gin. [Obs.]
Like a bird that hasteth to his grin. Remedy of Love.

GRIN
Grin, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Grinned; p. pr. & vb. n. Grinning.] Etym:
[OE. grinnen, grennen, AS. grennian, Sw. grina; akin to D. grijnen,
G. greinen, OHG. grinan, Dan. grine. Groan.]

1. To show the teeth, as a dog; to shsrl.

2. To set the teeth together and open the lips, or to open the mouth
and withdraw the lips from the teeth, so as to show them, as in
laughter, acorn, or pain.
The pangs of death do make him grin. Shak.

GRIN
Grin, v. t.

Defn: To express by grinning.
Grinned horrible a ghastly smile.Milton.

GRIN
Grin, n.

Defn: The act of closing the teeth and showing them, or of
withdrawing the lips and showing the teeth; a hard, forced, or
smeering smile. I.Watts.
He showed twenty teeth at a grin. Addison.

GRIND
Grind, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ground; p. pr. & vb. n. Grinding.] Etym:
[AS. grindan; perh. akin to L. frendere to gnash, grind. Cf. Grist.]

1. To reduce to powder by friction, as in a mill, or with the teeth;
to crush into small fragments; to produce as by the action of
millstones.
Take the millstones, and grind meal. Is. xivii. 2.

2. To wear down, polish, or sharpen, by friction; to make smooth,
sharp, or pointed; to whet, as a knife or drill; to rub against one
another, as teeth, etc.

3. To oppress by severe exactions; to harass.
To grind the subject or defraud the prince. Dryden.

4. To study hard for examination. [College Slang]

GRIND
Grind, v. i.

1. To perform the operation of grinding something; to turn the
millstones.
Send thee Into the common prison, there to grind. Milton.

2. To become ground or pulverized by friction; as, this corn grinds
well.

3. To become polished or sharpened by friction; as, glass grinds
smooth; steel grinds to a sharp edge.

4. To move with much difficulty or friction; to grate.

5. To perform hard aud distasteful service; to drudge; to study hard,
as for an examination. Farrar.

GRIND
Grind, n.

1. The act of reducing to powder, or of sharpening, by friction.

2. Any severe continuous work or occupation; esp., hard and
uninteresting study. [Colloq.] T. Hughes.

3. A hard student; a dig. [College Slang]

GRINDED
Grind"ed, obs. p. p. of Grind.

Defn: Ground. Sir W. Scott.

GRINDELIA
Grin*de"li*a, n. Etym: [NL. Named after D. H. Grindel, a Russian.]
(Med.)

Defn: The dried stems and leaves of tarweed (Grindelia), used as a
remedy in asthma and bronchitis.

GRINDER
Grind"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, grinds.

2. One of the double teeth, used to grind or masticate the food; a
molar.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The restless flycatcher (Seisura inquieta) of Australia; --
called also restless thrush and volatile thrush. It makes a noise
like a scissors grinder, to which the name alludes. Grinder's asthma,
phthisis, or rot (Med.), a lung disease produced by the mechanical
irritation of the particles of steel and stone given off in the
operation of grinding.