

HYDROCHLORATE
Hy`dro*chlo"rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Hydrochloride.

HYDROCHLORIC
Hy`dro*chlo"ric, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + hloric: cf. F.
hydrochlorique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or compounded of, chlorine and hydrogen gas; as,
hydrochloric acid; chlorhydric. Hydrochloric acid (Chem.), hydrogen
chloride; a colorless, corrosive gas, HCl, of pungent, suffocating
odor. It is made in great quantities in the soda process, by the
action of sulphuric acid on common salt. It has a great affinity for
water, and the commercial article is a strong solution of the gas in
water. It is a typical acid, and is an indispensable agent in
commercial and general chemical work. Called also muriatic, and
chlorhydric, acid.

HYDROCHLORIDE
Hy`dro*chlo"ride, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of hydrochloric acid with a base; -- distinguished
from a chloride, where only chlorine unites with the base.

HYDROCORALLIA
Hy`dro*co*ral"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Hydra, and Coral.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Hydroidea, including those genera that secrete a
stony coral, as Millepora and Stylaster. Two forms of zooids in life
project from small pores in the coral and resemble those of other
hydroids. See Millepora.

HYDROCYANATE
Hy`dro*cy"a*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Hydrocyanide.

HYDROCYANIC
Hy`dro*cy*an"ic, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + anic: cf. F. hydrocyanique.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from the combination of, hydrogen and
cyanogen. Hydrocyanic acid (Chem.), a colorless, mobile, volatile
liquid, HCN, having a characteristic peach-blossom odor. It is one of
the most deadly poisons. It is made by the action of sulphuric acid
on yellow prussiate of potassium (potassium ferrocyanide), and
chemically resembles hydrochloric and hydrobromic acids. Called also
prussic acid, hydrogen cyanide, etc.

HYDROCYANIDE
Hy`dro*cy"a*nide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of hydrocyanic acid with a base; -- distinguished
from a cyanide, in which only the cyanogen so combines.

HYDRODYNAMIC; HYDRODYNAMICAL
Hy`dro*dy*nam"ic, Hy`dro*dy*nam"ic*al, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + dynamic,
-ical: cf. F. hydrodynamique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the dynamical action of water
of a liquid; of or pertaining to water power. Hydrodynamic friction,
friction produced by the viscosity of a liquid in motion.

HYDRODYNAMICS
Hy`dro*dy*nam"ics, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + dynamics: cf. F.
hydrodynamique.]

Defn: That branch of the science of mechanics which relates to
fluids, or, as usually limited, which treats of the laws of motion
and action of nonelastic fluids, whether as investigated
mathematically, or by observation and experiment; the principles of
dynamics, as applied to water and other fluids.

Note: The word is sometimes used as a general term, including both
hydrostatics and hydraulics, together with pneumatics and acoustics.
See Hydraulics.

HYDRODYNAMOMETER
Hy`dro*dy`na*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + dynamometer.]

Defn: An instrument to measure the velocity of a liquid current by
the force of its impact.

HYDRO-ELECTRIC
Hy`dro-e*lec"tric, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + electric.]

Defn: Pertaining to, employed in, or produced by, the evolution of
electricity by means of a battery in which water or steam is used.
Hydro-electric machine (Physics), an apparatus invented by Sir
William Armstrong of England for generating electricity by the escape
of high-pressure steam from a series of jets connected with a strong
boiler, in which the steam is produced.

HYDRO-EXTRACTOR
Hy`dro-ex*tract"or, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + extractor.]

Defn: An apparatus for drying anything, as yarn, cloth, sugar, etc.,
by centrifugal force; a centrifugal.

HYDROFERRICYANIC
Hy`dro*fer`ri*cy*an"ic, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + ferricyanic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, or obtained from, hydrogen,
ferric iron, and cyanogen; as, hydroferricyanic acid. See
Ferricyanic.

HYDROFERROCYANIC
Hy`dro*fer`ro*cy*an"ic, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + ferrocyanic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, or obtained from, hydrogen,
ferrous iron, and cyanogen; as, hydroferrocyanic acid. See
Ferrocyanic.

HYDROFLUATE
Hy`dro*flu"ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed compound of hydrofluoris acid and a base; a
fluoride. [Archaic]

HYDROFLUORIC
Hy`dro*flu*or"ic, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + fluoric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, hydrogen and fluorine;
fluohydric; as, hydrofluoric acid. Hydrofluoric acid (Chem.), a
colorless, mobile, volatile liquid, HF, very corrosive in its action,
and having a strong, pungent, suffocating odor. It is produced by the
action of sulphuric acid on fluorite, and is usually collected as a
solution in water. It attacks all silicates, as glass or porcelain,
is the agent employed in etching glass, and is preserved only in
vessels of platinum, lead, caoutchouc, or gutta-percha.

HYDROFLUOSILICATE
Hy`dro*flu`o*sil"i*cate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of hydrofluosilic acid; a silicofluoride. See
Silicofluoride.

HYDROFLUOSILICIC
Hy`dro*flu`o*si*lic"ic, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + fluorine + silicic.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or denoting, a compound consisting of a double
fluoride of hydrogen and silicon; silicofluoric. See Silicofluoric.

HYDROGALVANIC
Hy`dro*gal*van"ic, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + galvanic.]

Defn: Pertaining to, produced by, or consisting of, electricity
evolved by the action or use of fluids; as, hydrogalvanic currents.
[R.]

HYDROGEN
Hy"dro*gen, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + -gen: cf. F. hydrogène. So called
because water is generated by its combustion. See Hydra.] (Chem.)

Defn: A gaseous element, colorless, tasteless, and odorless, the
lightest known substance, being fourteen and a half times lighter
than air (hence its use in filling balloons), and over eleven
thousand times lighter than water. It is very abundant, being an
ingredient of water and of many other substances, especially those of
animal or vegetable origin. It may by produced in many ways, but is
chiefly obtained by the action of acids (as sulphuric) on metals, as
zinc, iron, etc. It is very inflammable, and is an ingredient of coal
gas and water gas. It is standard of chemical equivalents or
combining weights, and also of valence, being the typical monad.
Symbol H. Atomic weight 1.

Note: Although a gas, hydrogen is chemically similar to the metals in
its nature, having the properties of a weak base. It is, in all
acids, the base which is replaced by metals and basic radicals to
form salts. Like all other gases, it is condensed by great cold and
pressure to a liquid which freezes and solidifies by its own
evaporation. It is absorbed in large quantities by certain metals
(esp. palladium), forming alloy-like compounds; hence, in view of
quasi-metallic nature, it is sometimes called hydrogenium. It is the
typical reducing agent, as opposed to oxidizers, as oxygen, chlorine,
etc. Bicarbureted hydrogen, an old name for ethylene.
 -- Carbureted hydrogen gas. See under Carbureted.
 -- Hydrogen dioxide, a thick, colorless liquid, H2O2, resembling
water, but having a bitter, sour taste, produced by the action of
acids on barium peroxide. It decomposes into water and oxygen, and is
manufactured in large quantities for an oxidizing and bleaching
agent. Called also oxygenated water.
 -- Hydrogen oxide, a chemical name for water, H -- Hydrogen
sulphide, a colorless inflammable gas, H2S, having the characteristic
odor of bad eggs, and found in many mineral springs. It is produced
by the action of acids on metallic sulphides, and is an important
chemical reagent. Called also sulphureted hydrogen.

HYDROGENATE
Hy"dro*gen*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Hydrogenated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Hydrogenating.] (Chem.)

Defn: To hydrogenize.

HYDROGENATION
Hy`dro*gen*a"tion, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The act of combining with hydrogen, or the state of being so
combined.

HYDROGENIDE
Hy"dro*gen*ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound containing hydrogen; a hydride. [R.] See
Hydride.

HYDROGENIUM
Hy`dro*ge"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Hydrogen.] (Chem.)

Defn: Hydrogen; -- called also in view of its supposed metallic
nature. Graham.

HYDROGENIZE
Hy"dro*gen*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Hydrogenized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Hydrogenizing.] (Chem.)

Defn: To combine with hydrogen; to treat with, or subject to the
action of, hydrogen; to reduce; -- contrasted with oxidize.

HYDROGENOUS
Hy*drog"e*nous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to hydrogen; containing hydrogen.

HYDROGNOSY
Hy*drog"no*sy, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + Gr.

Defn: A treatise upon, or a history and description of, the water of
the earth.

HYDROGODE
Hy"drog*ode, n. Etym: [Hydrogen + Gr. (Elec.)

Defn: The negative pole or cathode. [R.]

HYDROGRAPHER
Hy*drog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One skilled in the hydrography; one who surveys, or draws maps
or charts of, the sea, lakes, or other waters, with the adjacent
shores; one who describes the sea or other waters. Boyle.

HYDROGRAPHIC; HYDROGRAPHICAL
Hy`dro*graph"ic, Hy`dro*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to hydrography.

HYDROGRAPHY
Hy*drog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + -graphy: cf. F. hydrographie.]

1. The art of measuring and describing the sea, lakes, rivers, and
other waters, with their phenomena.

2. That branch of surveying which embraces the determination of the
contour of the bottom of a harbor or other sheet of water, the depth
of soundings, the position of channels and shoals, with the
construction of charts exhibiting these particulars.

HYDROGURET
Hy*drog"u*ret, n. Etym: [From Hydrogen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydride. [Obs.]

HYDROID
Hy"droid, a. Etym: [Hydra + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Related to, or resembling, the hydra; of or pertaining to the
Hydroidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Hydroideas.

HYDROIDEA
Hy*droi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Hydra, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive order of Hydrozoa or Acalephæ. [Written also
Hydroida.]

Note: This order includes the hydras and the free-swimming
hydromedusæ, together with a great variety of marine attached
hydroids, many of which grow up into large, elegantly branched forms,
consisting of a vast number of zooids (hydranths, gonophores, etc.),
united by hollow stems. All the zooids of a colony are produced from
one primary zooid, by successive buddings. The Siphonophora have also
been included in this order by some writers. See Gymnoblastea,
Hydromedusa, Gonosome, Gonotheca.

HYDROKINETIC
Hy`dro*ki*net"ic, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + kinetic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the motions of fluids, or the forces which
produce or affect such motions; -- opposed to hydrostatic. Sir W.
Thomson.

HYDROLOGICAL
Hy`dro*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to hydrology.

HYDROLOGIST
Hy*drol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in hydrology.

HYDROLOGY
Hy*drol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + -logy: cf. F. hydrologie.]

Defn: The science of water, its properties, phenomena, and
distribution over the earth's surface.

HYDROLYSIS
Hy*drol"y*sis, n.  [Hydro-, 1 + -lysis.] (Chem.)

Defn: A chemical process involving the addition of the elements of
water.

HYDROLYTIC
Hy`dro*lyt"ic, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Tending to remove or separate water; eliminating water.
Hydrolytic agents, such as sulphuric acid or caustic alkali. Encyc.
Brit.
Hydrolitic ferment (Physiol. Chem.), a ferment, enzyme, or chemical
ferment, which acts only in the presence of water, and which causes
the substance acted upon to take up a molecule of water. Thus,
diastase of malt, ptyalin of saliva, and boiling dilute sulphuric
acid all convert starch by hydration into dextrin and sugar. Nearly
all of the digestive ferments are hydrolytic in their action.

HYDROMAGNESITE
Hy`dro*mag"ne*site, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + magnesite.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous carbonate of magnesia occurring in white, early,
amorphous masses.

HYDROMANCY
Hy"dro*man`cy, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + -mancy: cf. F. hydromancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of water, -- practiced by the ancients.

HYDROMANTIC
Hy`dro*man"tic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hydromantique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to divination by water.

HYDROMECHANICS
Hy`dro*me*chan"ics, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + mechanics.]

Defn: That branch of physics which treats of the mechanics of
liquids, or of their laws of equilibrium and of motion.

HYDROMEDUSA
Hy`dro*me*du"sa, n.; pl. Hydromedusæ. Etym: [NL. See Hydra, and
Medusa.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any medusa or jellyfish which is produced by budding from a
hydroid. They are called also Craspedota, and naked-eyed medusæ.

Note: Such medusæ are the reproductive zooids or gonophores, either
male or female, of the hydroid from which they arise, whether they
become free or remain attached to the hydroid colony. They in turn
produce the eggs from which the hydroids are developed. The name is
also applied to other similar medusæ which are not known to bud from
a hydroid colony, and even to some which are known to develop
directly from the eggs, but which in structure agree essentially with
those produced from hydroids. See Hydroidea, and Gymnoblastea.

HYDROMEL
Hy"dro*mel, n. Etym: [L. hydromel, hydromeli, Gr. hydromel.]

Defn: A liquor consisting of honey diluted in water, and after
fermentation called mead.

HYDROMELLONIC
Hy`dro*mel*lon"ic, a.

Defn: See Cyamellone.

HYDROMETALLURGICAL
Hy`dro*met`al*lur"gic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to hydrometallurgy; involving the use of
liquid reagents in the treatment or reduction of ores.
 -- Hy`dro*met`al*lur"gic*al*ly, adv.

HYDROMETALLURGY
Hy`dro*met"al*lur`gy, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + metallurgy.]

Defn: The art or process of assaying or reducing ores by means of
liquid reagents.

HYDROMETEOR
Hy`dro*me"te*or, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + meteor.]

Defn: A meteor or atmospheric phenomenon dependent upon the vapor of
water; -- in the pl., a general term for the whole aqueous phenomena
of the atmosphere, as rain, snow, hail, etc. Nichol.

HYDROMETEOROLOGICAL
Hy`dro*me`te*or`o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to hydrometeorology, or to rain, clouds,
storms, etc.

HYDROMETEOROLOGY
Hy`dro*me`te*or*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + meteorology.]

Defn: That branch of meteorology which relates to, or treats of,
water in the atmosphere, or its phenomena, as rain, clouds, snow,
hail, storms, etc.

HYDROMETER
Hy*drom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + -meter: cf. F. hydromètre.]

1. (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for determining the specific gravities of
liquids, and thence the strength spirituous liquors, saline
solutions, etc.

Note: It is usually made of glass with a graduated stem, and
indicates the specific gravity of a liquid by the depth to which it
sinks in it, the zero of the scale marking the depth to which it
sinks in pure water. Extra weights are sometimes used to adapt the
scale to liquids of different densities.

2. An instrument, variously constructed, used for measuring the
velocity or discharge of water, as in rivers, from reservoirs, etc.,
and called by various specific names according to its construction or
use, as tachometer, rheometer, hydrometer, pendulum, etc.; a current
gauge.

HYDROMETRIC; HYDROMETRICAL
Hy`dro*met"ric, Hy`dro*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hydromètrique.]

1. Of or pertaining to an hydrometer, or to the determination of the
specific gravity of fluids.

2. Of or pertaining to measurement of the velocity, discharge, etc.,
of running water.

3. Made by means of an hydrometer; as, hydrometric observations.
Hydrometric pendulum, a species of hydrometer consisting of a hollow
ball of ivory or metal suspended by a treated from the center of a
graduated quadrant, and held in a stream to measure the velocity of
the water by the inclination given to the thread; a kind of current
gauge.

HYDROMETROGRAPH
Hy`dro*met"ro*graph, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + Gr. graph.]

Defn: An instrument for determining and recording the quantity of
water discharged from a pipe, orifice, etc., in a given time.

HYDROMETRY
Hy*drom"e*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. hydromètrique.]

1. The art of determining the specific gravity of liquids, and thence
the strength of spirituous liquors, saline solutions, etc.

2. The art or operation of measuring the velocity or discharge of
running water, as in rivers, etc.

HYDROMICA
Hy`dro*mi"ca, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + mica.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of potash mica containing water. It is less elastic
than ordinary muscovite. Hydromica schist (Min.), a mica schist
characterized by the presence of hydromica. It often has a silky
luster and almost soapy feel.

HYDRONEPHROSIS
Hy`dro*ne*phro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., Gr. "y`dwr water + (Med.)

Defn: An accumulation of urine in the pelvis of the kidney,
occasioned by obstruction in the urinary passages.

HYDROPATH
Hy"dro*path, n. Etym: [Cf. F. hydropathe.]

Defn: A hydropathist.

HYDROPATHIC; HYDROPATHICAL
Hy`dro*path"ic, Hy`dro*path"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to hydropathy.

HYDROPATHIST
Hy*drop"a*thist, n.

Defn: One who practices hydropathy; a water-cure doctor.

HYDROPATHY
Hy*drop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + Gr.

Defn: The water cure; a mode of treating diseases by the copious and
frequent use of pure water, both internally and externally.

HYDROPERITONEUM
Hy`dro*per`i*to*ne"um, n. Etym: [NL. See Hydro-, and Peritoneum.]
(Med.)

Defn: Same as Ascites.

HYDROPHANE
Hy"dro*phane, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + Gr. hydrophane.] (Min.)

Defn: A semitranslucent variety of opal that becomes translucent or
transparent on immersion in water.

HYDROPHANOUS
Hy*droph"a*nous, a. (Min.)

Defn: Made transparent by immersion in water.

HYDROPHID
Hy"dro*phid, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any sea snake of the genus Hydrophys and allied genera. These
snakes are venomous, live upon fishes, and have a flattened tail for
swimming.

HYDROPHLORONE
Hy`dro*phlo"rone, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + phlorone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline benzene derivative, C8H10O2, obtained by
the reduction of phlorone.

HYDROPHOBIA
Hy`dro*pho"bi*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. "y`dwr water + hydrophobie.]
(Med.)
(a) An abnormal dread of water, said to be a symptom of canine
madness; hence:
(b) The disease caused by a bite form, or inoculation with the saliva
of, a rabid creature, of which the chief symptoms are, a sense of
dryness and construction in the throat, causing difficulty in
deglutition, and a marked heightening of reflex excitability,
producing convulsions whenever the patient attempts to swallow, or is
disturbed in any way, as by the sight or sound of water; rabies;
canine madness. [Written also hydrophoby.]

HYDROPHOBIC
Hy`dro*phob"ic, a. Etym: [L. hydrophobicus, Gr. hydrophobique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to hydrophobia; producing or caused by rabies;
as, hydrophobic symptoms; the hydrophobic poison.

HYDROPHOBY
Hy"dro*pho`by, n.

Defn: See Hydrophobia.

HYDROPHORA
Hy*droph"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. E. hydra + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Hydroidea.

HYDROPHORE
Hy"dro*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. "y`dwr water +

Defn: An instrument used for the purpose of obtaining specimens of
water from any desired depth, as in a river, a lake, or the ocean.

HYDROPHYLLIUM
Hy`dro*phyl"li*um, n.; pl. L. Hydrophyllia, E. Hydrophylliums. Etym:
[NL., fr. Gr. "y`dwr water + (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the flat, leaflike, protective zooids, covering other
zooids of certain Siphonophora.

HYDROPHYTE
Hy"dro*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. hydrophyte.]

Defn: An aquatic plant; an alga.

HYDROPHYTOLOGY
Hy*droph`y*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Hydro- + phyte + -logy.]

Defn: The branch of botany which treats of water plants.

HYDROPIC; HYDROPICAL
Hy*drop"ic, Hy*drop"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. hydropicus, Gr. hydropique.
See Dropsy.]

Defn: Dropsical, or resembling dropsy.
Every lust is a kind of hydropic distemper, and the more we drink the
more we shall thirst. Tillotson.

HYDROPICALLY
Hy*drop"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a hydropical manner.

HYDROPIPER
Hy"dro*pi`per, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. "y`dwr water + L. piper a
pepper.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species (Polygonum Hydropiper) of knotweed with acrid
foliage; water pepper; smartweed.

HYDROPLANE
Hy"dro*plane, n. [Pref. hydro-, 1 + plane.]

1. A plane, or any of a number of planes, projecting from the hull of
a submarine boat, which by being elevated or depressed cause the
boat, when going ahead, to sink or rise, after the manner of an
aëroplane.

2.  A projecting plane or fin on a gliding boat to lift the moving
boat on top of the water; also, a gliding boat.

HYDROPLANE
Hy"dro*plane, v. i.

Defn: Of a boat, to plane (see Plane, below).

HYDROPNEUMATIC
Hy`dro*pneu*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + pneumatic: cf. F.
hydropneumatique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or depending upon, both liquid and gaseous
substances; as, hydropneumatic apparatus for collecting gases over
water or other liquids.

HYDROPNEUMATIC GUN CARRIAGE
Hy`dro*pneu*mat"ic gun carriage. (Ordnance)

Defn: A disappearing gun carriage in which the recoil is checked by
cylinders containing liquid and air, the air when compressed
furnishing the power for restoring the gun to the firing position. It
is used with some English and European heavy guns.

HYDROPSY
Hy"drop`sy, n.

Defn: Same as Dropsy.

HYDROPULT
Hy"dro*pult, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + Gr.

Defn: A machine for throwing water by hand power, as a garden engine,
a fire extinguisher, etc.

HYDROQUINONE
Hy`dro*qui"none, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + quinone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance, C6H4(OH)2, obtained by the
reduction of quinone. It is a diacid phenol, resembling, and
metameric with, pyrocatechin and resorcin. Called also dihydroxy
benzene.

HYDRORHIZA
Hy`dro*rhi"za, n.; pl. L. Hydrorhizæ, E. Hydrorhizas. Etym: [NL., fr.
E. hydra + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The rootstock or decumbent stem by which a hydroid is attached
to other objects. See Illust. under Hydroidea.

HYDROSALT
Hy"dro*salt`, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + salt.] (Chem.)
(a) A salt supposed to be formed by a hydracid and a base.
(b) An acid salt. [R.]
(c) A hydrous salt; a salt combined with water of hydration or
crystallization.

HYDROSCOPE
Hy"dro*scope, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + -scope.]

1. An instrument designed to mark the presence of water, especially
in air. Weale.

2. A kind of water clock, used anciently for measuring time, the
water tricking from an orifice at the end of a graduated tube.

HYDROSOME; HYDROSOMA
Hy"dro*some, Hy`dro*so"ma, n. Etym: [NL. hydrosoma. See Hydra, and -
some body.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: All the zooids of a hydroid colony collectively, including the
nutritive and reproductive zooids, and often other kinds.

HYDROSORBIC
Hy`dro*sor"bic, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + sorbic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from sorbic
acid when this takes up hydrogen; as, hydrosorbic acid.

HYDROSPHERE
Hy"dro*sphere, n. [Pref. hydro-, 1 + sphere.]

1. (Meteor.)

Defn: The aqueous vapor of the entire atmosphere.

2.  (Phys. Geog.) The aqueous envelope of the earth, including the
ocean, all lakes, streams, and underground waters, and the aqueous
vapor in the atmosphere.

HYDROSTAT
Hy"dro*stat, n.

Defn: A contrivance or apparatus to prevent the explosion of steam
boilers.

HYDROSTATIC; HYDROSTATICAL
Hy`dro*stat"ic, Hy`dro*stat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + Gr.
hydrostatique. See Static.]

Defn: Of or relating to hydrostatics; pertaining to, or in accordance
with, the principles of the equilibrium of fluids.
The first discovery made in hydrostatics since the time of Archimedes
is due to Stevinus. Hallam.
Hydrostatic balance, a balance for weighing substances in water, for
the purpose of ascertaining their specific gravities.
 -- Hydrostatic bed, a water bed.
 -- Hydrostatic bellows, an apparatus consisting of a water-tight
bellowslike case with a long, upright tube, into which water may be
poured to illustrate the hydrostatic paradox.
 -- Hydrostatic paradox, the proposition in hydrostatics that any
quantity of water, however small, may be made to counterbalance any
weight, however great; or the law of the equality of pressure of
fluids in all directions.
 -- Hydrostatic press, a machine in which great force, with slow
motion, is communicated to a large plunger by means of water forced
into the cylinder in which it moves, by a forcing pump of small
diameter, to which the power is applied, the principle involved being
the same as in the hydrostatic bellows. Also called hydraulic press,
and Bramah press. In the illustration, a is a pump with a small
plunger b, which forces the water into the cylinder c, thus driving
upward the large plunder d, which performs the reduced work, such as
compressing cotton bales, etc.

HYDROSTATICALLY
Hy`dro*stat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: According to hydrostatics, or to hydrostatic principles.
Bentley.

HYDROSTATICIAN
Hy`dro*sta*ti"cian, n.

Defn: One who is versed or skilled in hydrostatics. [R.]

HYDROSTATICS
Hy`dro*stat"ics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. hydrostatique.] (Physics)

Defn: The branch of science which relates to the pressure and
equilibrium of nonelastic fluids, as water, mercury, etc.; the
principles of statics applied to water and other liquids.

HYDROSULPHATE
Hy`dro*sul"phate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Hydrosulphurent.

HYDROSULPHIDE
Hy`dro*sul"phide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of compounds, derived from hydrogen sulphide by
the replacement of half its hydrogen by a base or basic radical; as,
potassium hydrosulphide, KSH. The hydrosulphides are analogous to the
hydrates and include the mercaptans.

HYDROSULPHITE
Hy`dro*sul"phite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A saline compound of hydrosulphurous acid and a base. [R.]

HYDROSULPHURET
Hy`dro*sul"phu*ret, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrosulphide. [Archaic]

HYDROSULPHURETED
Hy`dro*sul"phu*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with hydrogen sulphide.

HYDROSULPHURIC
Hy`dro*sul*phu"ric, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + sulphuric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, hydrogen and sulphur; as,
hydrosulphuricacid, a designation applied to the solution of hydrogen
sulphide in water.

HYDROSULPHUROUS
Hy`dro*sul"phur*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the
reduction of sulphurous acid. See Hyposulphurous acid, under
Hyposulphurous.

HYDROTELLURATE
Hy`dro*tel"lu*rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the union of hydrotelluric acid and the base.

HYDROTELLURIC
Hy`dro*tel*lu"ric, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + telluric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Formed by hydrogen and tellurium; as, hydrotelluric acid, or
hydrogen telluride.

HYDROTHECA
Hy`dro*the"ca, n.; pl. L. Hydrothecæ, E. Hydrothecas. Etym: [NL., fr.
E. hydra + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the calicles which, in some Hydroidea (Thecaphora),
protect the hydrants. See Illust. of Hydroidea, and Campanularian.

HYDROTHERAPEUTICS
Hy`dro*ther`a*peu"tics, n. [Hydro-, 1 + therapeutics.] (Med.)

Defn: A system of treating disease by baths and mineral waters.

HYDROTHERAPY
Hy`dro*ther"a*py, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + therapy.] (Med.)

Defn: See Hydropathy.

HYDROTHERMAL
Hy`dro*ther"mal, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + thermal.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to hot water; -- used esp. with reference to
the action of heated waters in dissolving, redepositing, and
otherwise producing mineral changes within the crust of the globe.

HYDROTHORAX
Hy`dro*tho"rax, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + thorax.] (Med.)

Defn: An accumulation of serous fluid in the cavity of the chest.

HYDROTIC
Hy*drot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. "y`dwr water: cf. Gr. hydrotique.]

Defn: Causing a discharge of water or phlegm.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A hydrotic medicine.

HYDROTICAL
Hy*drot"ic*al, a.

Defn: Hydrotic.

HYDROTROPE
Hy"dro*trope, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + Gr.

Defn: A device for raising water by the direct action of steam; a
pulsometer.

HYDROTROPIC
Hy`dro*trop"ic, a. Etym: [See Hydrotrope.] (Bot.)

Defn: Turning or bending towards moisture, as roots.

HYDROTROPISM
Hy*drot"ro*pism, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tendency towards moisture.

HYDROUS
Hy"drous, a. Etym: [Gr. "y`dwr water.]

1. Containing water; watery.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Containing water of hydration or crystallization.

HYDROXANTHANE
Hy`dro*xan"thane, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A persulphocyanate. [Obs.]

HYDROXANTHIC
Hy`dro*xan"thic, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + xanthic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Persulphocyanic.

HYDROXIDE
Hy*drox"ide, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + oxide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrate; a substance containing hydrogen and oxygen, made by
combining water with an oxide, and yielding water by elimination. The
hydroxides are regarded as compounds of hydroxyl, united usually with
basic element or radical; as, calcium hydroxide ethyl hydroxide.

HYDROXY-
Hy*drox"y-. (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form, also used adjectively, indicating hydroxyl as
an ingredient. Hydroxy acid (Chem.), an organic acid, having (besides
the hydroxyl group of the carboxyl radical) an alcoholic hydroxyl
group, and thus having the qualities of an alcohol in addition to its
acid properties; as, lactic and tartaric acids are hydroxy acids.

HYDROXYL
Hy*drox"yl, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 2 + oxygen + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical, or unsaturated group, HO, consisting of one
atom of hydrogen and one of oxygen. It is a characteristic part of
the hydrates, the alcohols, the oxygen acids, etc.

HYDROXYLAMINE
Hy*drox`yl*am"ine, n. Etym: [Hydroxyl + amine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous, organic base, NH2.OH, resembling ammonia, and
produced by a modified reduction of nitric acid. It is usually
obtained as a volatile, unstable solution in water. It acts as a
strong reducing agent.

HYDROZOA
Hy`dro*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. E. hydra + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Acalephæ; one of the classes of coelenterates, including
the Hydroidea, Discophora, and Siphonophora.

HYDROZOAL
Hy`dro*zo"al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Hydrozoa.

HYDROZOON; HYDROZOOEN
Hy`dro*zo"ön, n.; pl. L. Hydrozoa, E. Hydrozoöns. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Hydrozoa.

HYDRURET
Hy"dru*ret, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 2] (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of hydrogen; a hydride. [Obs.]

HYDRUS
Hy"drus, n. Etym: [L., a water serpent; also, a certain
constellation, Gr. "y`dros.] (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation of the southern hemisphere, near the south
pole.

HYE
Hye, n. & v.

Defn: See Hie. [Obs.] Chaucer.

HYEMAL
Hy*e"mal, a. Etym: [L. hyemalis, or better hiemalis, fr. hyems,
hiems, winter: cf. F. hyémal.]

Defn: Belonging to winter; done in winter. Sir T. Browne.

HYEMATE
Hy"e*mate, v. i. Etym: [L. hiemare, hiematum. See Hyemal.]

Defn: To pass the winter. [Obs. & R.]

HYEMATION
Hy`e*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. hiematio.]

1. The passing of a winter in a particular place; a wintering.

2. The act of affording shelter in winter. [Obs.]

HYEN
Hy"en, n. Etym: [F. hyène.]

Defn: A hyena. [Obs.] Shak.

HYENA
Hy*e"na, n.; pl. Hyenas. Etym: [L. hyaena, Gr. hyène. See Sow female
hog.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any carnivorous mammal of the family Hyænidæ, of which three
living species are known. They are large and strong, but cowardly.
They feed chiefly on carrion, and are nocturnal in their habits.
[Written also hyæna.]

Note: The striped hyena (Hyæna striata) inhabits Southern Asia and a
large part of Africa. The brown hyena (H. brunnea), and the spotted
hyena (Crocuta maculata), are found in Southern Africa. The extinct
cave hyena (H. spelæa) inhabited England and France. Cave hyena. See
under Cave.
 -- Hyena dog (Zoöl.), a South African canine animal (Lycaon
venaticus), which hunts in packs, chiefly at night. It is smaller
than the common wolf, with very large, erect ears, and a bushy tail.
Its color is reddish or yellowish brown, blotched with black and
white. Called also hunting dog.

HYETAL
Hy"e*tal, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to rain; descriptive of the distribution of
rain, or of rainy regions.

HYETOGRAPH
Hy"e*to*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: A chart or graphic representation of the average distribution
of rain over the surface of the earth.

HYETOGRAPHIC
Hy`e*to*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to to hyetography.

HYETOGRAPHY
Hy`e*tog"ra*phy, n.

Defn: The branch of physical science which treats of the geographical
distribution of rain.

HYETOLOGY
Hy`e*tol"o*gy, n. [Gr.  + rain -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of the precipitation of rain, snow,
etc. -- Hy`e*to*log"ic*al, a.

HYGEIA
Hy*ge"ia, n. Etym: [L. Hygea, Hygia, fr. Gr. (Classic Myth.)

Defn: The goddess of health, daughter of Esculapius.

HYGEIAN
Hy*ge"ian, a.

Defn: Relating to Hygeia, the goddess of health; of or pertaining to
health, or its preservation.

HYGEIST
Hy"ge*ist, n.

Defn: One skilled in hygiena; a hygienist.

HYGIEIST
Hy"gie*ist, n.

Defn: A hygienist.

HYGIENE
Hy"gi*ene, n. Etym: [F. hygiène. See Hygeia.]

Defn: That department of sanitary science which treats of the
preservation of health, esp. of households and communities; a system
of principles or rules designated for the promotion of health.

HYGIENIC
Hy`gi*en"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hygiénique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to health or hygiene; sanitary.

HYGIENICS
Hy`gi*en"ics, n.

Defn: The science of health; hygiene.

HYGIENISM
Hy"gi*en*ism, n.

Defn: Hygiene.

HYGIENIST
Hy"gi*en*ist, n.

Defn: One versed in hygiene.

HYGIOLOGY
Hy`gi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: A treatise on, or the science of, the preservation of health.
[R.]

HYGRINE
Hy"grine, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid associated with cocaine in coca leaves
(Erythroxylon coca), and extracted as a thick, yellow oil, having a
pungent taste and odor.

HYGRODEIK
Hy"gro*deik, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: A form of hygrometer having wet and dry bulb thermometers, with
an adjustable index showing directly the percentage of moisture in
the air, etc.

HYGROGRAPH
Hy"gro*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for recording automatically the variations of the
humidity of the atmosphere.

HYGROLOGY
Hy*grol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. hygrologie.] (Med.)

Defn: The science which treats of the fluids of the body.

HYGROMETER
Hy*grom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. hygromètre.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the degree of moisture of the
atmosphere. Daniell's hygrometer, a form of hygrometer consisting of
a bent glass tube terminating in two bulbs, the one covered with
muslin, the other of black glass, and containing ether and a
thermometer. Ether being poured on the muslin, the black ball, cooled
by the evaporation of the ether within, is soon covered with dew; at
this moment, the inclosed thermometer gives the dew-point, and this,
compared with the reading of one in the air, determines the humidity.

HYGROMETRIC; HYGROMETRICAL
Hy`gro*met"ric, Hy`gro*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hygrométrique.]

1. Of or pertaining to hygrometry; made with, or according to, the
hygrometer; as, hygrometric observations.

2. Readily absorbing and retaining moisture; as, hygrometric
substances, like potash.

HYGROMETRY
Hy*grom"e*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. hygrométrie.] (Physics)

Defn: That branch of physics which relates to the determination of
the humidity of bodies, particularly of the atmosphere, with the
theory and use of the instruments constructed for this purpose.

HYGROPHANOUS
Hy*groph"a*nous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having such a structure as to be diaphanous when moist, and
opaque when dry.

HYGROPHTHALMIC
Hy`groph*thal"mic, a. Etym: [Gr. ophthalmic.] (Anat.)

Defn: Serving to moisten the eye; -- sometimes applied to the
lachrymal ducts.

HYGROPLASM
Hy"gro*plasm, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The fluid portion of the cell protoplasm, in opposition to
stereoplasm, the solid or insoluble portion. The latter is supposed
to be partly nutritive and partly composed of idioplasm.

HYGROSCOPE
Hy"gro*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope: cf. F. hygroscope.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument which shows whether there is more or less
moisture in the atmosphere, without indicating its amount.

HYGROSCOPIC
Hy`gro*scop"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hygroscopique.]

1. Of or pertaining to, or indicated by, the hygroscope; not readily
manifest to the senses, but capable of detection by the hygroscope;
as, glass is often covered with a film of hygroscopic moisture.

2. Having the property of readily inbibing moisture from the
atmosphere, or of the becoming coated with a thin film of moisture,
as glass, etc.

HYGROSCOPICITY
Hy`gro*sco*pic"i*ty, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The property possessed by vegetable tissues of absorbing or
discharging moisture according to circumstances.

HYGROSTATICS
Hy`gro*stat"ics, n. Etym: [Gr. Statics.]

Defn: The science or art of comparing or measuring degrees of
moisture. Evelyn.

HYKE
Hyke, n.

Defn: See Haik, and Huke.

HYKSOS
Hyk"sos, n. [Gr. , fr. Egypt. hikshasu chiefs of the Bedouins,
shepherds.]

Defn: A dynasty of Egyptian kings, often called the Shepherd kings,
of foreign origin, who, according to the narrative of Manetho, ruled
for about 500 years, forming the XVth and XVIth dynasties. It is now
considered that the XVIth is merely a double of the XVth dynasty, and
that the total period of the six Hyksos kings was little more than
100 years. It is supposed that they were Asiatic Semites.

HYLAEOSAUR; HYLAEOSAURUS
Hy"læ*o*saur`, Hy`læ*o*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL. hylaeosaurus, fr. Gr.
(Paleon.)

Defn: A large Wealden dinosaur from the Tilgate Forest, England. It
was about twenty feet long, protected by bony plates in the skin, and
armed with spines.

HYLARCHICAL
Hy*lar"chi*cal, a. Etym: [Gr. hylarchique. See Archical.]

Defn: Presiding over matter. [Obs.] Hallywell.

HYLEOSAUR
Hy"le*o*saur", n.

Defn: Same as Hylæosaur.

HYLIC
Hyl"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to matter; material; corporeal; as, hylic
influences.

HYLICIST
Hy"li*cist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A philosopher who treats chiefly of matter; one who adopts or
teaches hylism.

HYLISM
Hy"lism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Metaph.)

Defn: A theory which regards matter as the original principle of
evil.

HYLOBATE
Hy"lo*bate, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of the genus Hylobates; a gibbon, or long-armed
ape. See Gibbon.

HYLODES
Hy*lo"des, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The piping frog (Hyla Pickeringii), a small American tree frog,
which in early spring, while breeding in swamps and ditches, sings
with high, shrill, but musical, notes.

HYLOISM
Hy"lo*ism, n.

Defn: Same as Hylotheism.

HYLOIST
Hy"lo*ist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Same as Hylotheist.

HYLOPATHISM
Hy*lop"a*thism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The doctrine that matter is sentient. Krauth-Fleming.

HYLOPATHIST
Hy*lop"a*thist, n.

Defn: One who believes in hylopathism.

HYLOPHAGOUS
Hy*loph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Eating green shoots, as certain insects do.

HYLOTHEISM
Hy"lo*the*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The doctrine of belief that matter is God, or that there is no
God except matter and the universe; pantheism. See Materialism.

HYLOTHEIST
Hy"lo*the*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes in hylotheism.

HYLOZOIC
Hy`lo*zo"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to hylozoism.

HYLOZOISM
Hy`lo*zo"ism, n. Etym: [Gr. hylozoïsme.]

Defn: The doctrine that matter possesses a species of life and
sensation, or that matter and life are inseparable. [R.] Cudworth.

HYLOZOIST
Hy`lo*zo"ist, n.

Defn: A believer in hylozoism. A. Tucker.

HYMAR
Hy*mar", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wild ass of Persia.

HYMEN
Hy"men, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A fold of muscous membrane often found at the orifice of the
vagina; the vaginal membrane.

HYMEN
Hy"men, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Class Myth.)

Defn: A fabulous deity; according to some, the son of Apollo and
Urania, according to others, of Bacchus and Venus. He was the god of
marriage, and presided over nuptial solemnities.
Till Hymen brought his love-delighted hour, There dwelt no joy in
Eden's rosy bower. Campbell.

2. Marriage; union as if by marriage.
Hymen of element and race. Emerson.

HYMENEAL; HYMENEAN
Hy`me*ne"al, Hy`me*ne"an, a. Etym: [L. hymeneius, a., also Hymenaeus,
n., Hymen, Gr. hyménéal, hyménéen.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to marriage; as, hymeneal rites. Pope.

HYMENEAL; HYMENEAN
Hy`me*ne"al, Hy`me*ne"an, n.

Defn: A marriage song. Milton.

HYMENIUM
Hy*me"ni*um, n.; pl. L. Hymenia, E. Hymeniums. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
(Bot.)

Defn: The spore-bearing surface of certain fungi, as that on the
gills of a mushroom.

HYMENOGENY
Hy`me*nog"e*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The production of artificial membranes by contact of two
fluids, as albumin and fat, by which the globules of the latter are
surrounded by a thin film of the former.

HYMENOMYCETES
Hy`me*no*my*ce"tes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the great divisions of fungi, containing those species
in which the hymenium is completely exposed. M. J. Berkley.

HYMENOPHORE
Hy*men"o*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: That part of a fungus which is covered with the hymenium.

HYMENOPTER
Hy`me*nop"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. F. hyménoptère.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Hymenoptera.

HYMENOPTERA
Hy`me*nop"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive order of insects, including the bees, ants,
ichneumons, sawflies, etc.

Note: They have four membranous wings, with few reticulations, and
usually with a thickened, dark spot on the front edge of the anterior
wings. In most of the species, the tongue, or lingua, is converted
into an organ for sucking honey, or other liquid food, and the
mandibles are adapted for biting or cutting. In one large division
(Aculeata), including the bees, wasps, and ants, the females and
workers usually have a sting, which is only a modified ovipositor.

HYMENOPTERAL; HYMENOPTEROUS
Hy`me*nop"ter*al, Hy`me*nop"ter*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or characteristic of, the Hymenoptera; pertaining to the
Hymenoptera.

HYMENOPTERAN
Hy`me*nop"ter*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Hymenoptera.

HYMN
Hymn, n. Etym: [OE. hympne, ympne, F. hymne, OF. also ymne, L.
hymnus, Gr. weave.]

Defn: An ode or song of praise or adoration; especially, a religious
ode, a sacred lyric; a song of praise or thankgiving intended to be
used in religious service; as, the Homeric hymns; Watts' hymns.
Admonishing one another in psalms and hymns. Col. iii. 16.
Where angels first should practice hymns, and string Their tuneful
harps. Dryden.
Hymn book, a book containing a collection of hymns, as for use in
churches; a hymnal.

HYMN
Hymn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Hymned; p. pr. & vb. n. Hymning.] Etym:
[Cf. L. hymnire, Gr.

Defn: To praise in song; to worship or extol by singing hymns; to
sing.
To hymn the bright of the Lord. Keble.
Their praise is hymned by loftier harps than mine. Byron.

HYMN
Hymn, v. i.

Defn: To sing in praise or adoration. Milton.

HYMNAL
Hym"nal, n.

Defn: A collection of hymns; a hymn book.

HYMNIC
Hym"nic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hymnique.]

Defn: Relating to hymns, or sacred lyrics. Donne.

HYMNING
Hymn"ing, a.

Defn: Praising with hymns; singing. "The hymning choir." G. West.

HYMNING
Hymn"ing, n.

Defn: The singing of hymns. Milton.

HYMNIST
Hym"nist, n.

Defn: A writer of hymns.

HYMNODY
Hym"no*dy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Hymns, considered collectively; hymnology.

HYMNOGRAPHER
Hym*nog"ra*pher, n.

1. One who writes on the subject of hymns.

2. A writer or composed of hymns.

HYMNOGRAPHY
Hym*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. graphy.]

Defn: The art or act of composing hymns.

HYMNOLOGIST
Hym*nol"o*gist, n.

Defn: A composer or compiler of hymns; one versed in hymnology.
Busby.

HYMNOLOGY
Hym*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. hymnologie.]

1. The hymns or sacred lyrics composed by authors of a particular
country or period; as, the hymnology of the eighteenth century; also,
the collective body of hymns used by any particular church or
religious body; as, the Anglican hymnology.

2. A knowledge of hymns; a treatise on hymns.

HYMPNE
Hymp"ne, n.

Defn: A hymn. [Obs.] Chaucer.

HYNDRESTE
Hynd"reste, a.

Defn: See Hinderest. [Obs.]

HYNE
Hyne, n.

Defn: A servant. See Hine. [Obs.] Chaucer.

HYO-
Hy"o-. Etym: [See Hyod.]

Defn: A prexif used in anatomy, and generally denoting connection
with the hyoid bone or arch; as, hyoglossal, hyomandibular,
hyomental, etc.

HYOGANOIDEI
Hy`o*ga*noi"de*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Hyo-, and Canoidei.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of ganoid fishes, including the gar pikes and
bowfins.
 -- Hy`o*ga"noid, a.

HYOGLOSSAL
Hy`o*glos"sal, a. Etym: [Hyo- + Gr. (Anat.)
(a) Pertaining to or connecting the tongue and hyodean arch; as, the
hyoglossal membrane.
(b) Of or pertaining to the hyoglossus muscle.

HYOGLOSSUS
Hy`o*glos"sus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. hyo- hyo- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A flat muscle on either side of the tongue, connecting it with
the hyoid bone.

HYOID
Hy"oid, a. Etym: [Gr. hyoïde.]

1. Having the form of an arch, or of the Greek letter upsilon [

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the bony or cartilaginous arch which
supports the tongue. Sometimes applied to the tongue itself. Hyoid
arch (Anat.), the arch of cartilaginous or bony segments, which
connects the base of the tongue with either side of the skull.
 -- Hyoid bone (Anat.), the bone in the base of the tongue, the
middle part of the hyoid arch.

HYOID
Hy"oid, n.

Defn: The hyoid bone.

HYOIDEAL; HYOIDEAN
Hy*oid"e*al, Hy*oid"e*an, a.

Defn: Same as Hyoid, a.

HYOMANDIBULAR
Hy`o*man*dib"u*lar, a. Etym: [Hyo- + mandibular.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining both to the hyoidean arch and the mandible or lower
jaw; as, the hyomandibular bone or cartilage, a segment of the hyoid
arch which connects the lower jaw with the skull in fishes.
 -- n.

Defn: The hyomandibular bone or cartilage.

HYOMENTAL
Hy`o*men"tal, a. Etym: [Hyo- + mental of the chin.] (Anat.)

Defn: Between the hyoid bone and the lower jaw, pertaining to them;
suprahyoid; submaxillary; as, the hyomental region of the front of
the neck.

HYOPASTRON
Hy`o*pas"tron, n. Etym: [Hyo- + plastron.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The second lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called
also hyosternum.

HYOSCINE
Hy*os"cine, n. Etym: [See Hyoscyamus.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid found with hyoscyamine (with which it is also
isomeric) in henbane, and extracted as a white, amorphous, semisolid
substance.

HYOSCYAMINE
Hy`os*cy"a*mine, n. Etym: [See Hyoscyamus.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid found in henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), and regarded
as its active principle. It is also found with other alkaloids in the
thorn apple and deadly nightshade. It is extracted as a white
crystalline substance, with a sharp, offensive taste. Hyoscyamine is
isomeric with atropine, is very poisonous, and is used as a medicine
for neuralgia, like belladonna. Called also hyoscyamia, duboisine,
etc.

HYOSCYAMUS
Hy`os*cy"a*mus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of poisonous plants of the Nightshade family; henbane.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The leaves of the black henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), used in
neuralgic and pectorial troubles.

HYOSTERNAL
Hy`o*ster"nal, a. Etym: [Hyo- + ternal.] (Anat.)
(a) Between the hyoid bone and the sternum, or pertaining to them;
infrahyoid; as, the hyosternal region of the neck.
(b) Pertaining to the hyosternum of turtles.

HYOSTERNUM
Hy`o*ster"num, n. Etym: [Hyo- + sternum.] (Anat.)

Defn: See Hyoplastron.

HYOSTYLIC
Hy`o*styl"ic, a. Etym: [Hyo- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having the mandible suspended by the hyomandibular, or upper
part of the hyoid arch, as in fishes, instead of directly articulated
with the skull as in mammals; -- said of the skull.

HYP
Hyp, n.

Defn: An abbreviation of hypochonaria; -- usually in plural.
[Colloq.]
Heaven send thou hast not got the hyps. Swift.

HYP
Hyp, v. t.

Defn: To make melancholy. [Colloq.] W. Irving.

HYPAETHRAL; HYPETHRAL
Hy*pæ"thral, Hy*pe"thral, a. Etym: [L. hypaethrus in the open air,
uncovered, Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: Exposed to the air; wanting a roof; -- applied to a building or
part of a building. Gwilt.

HYPALLAGE
Hy*pal"la*ge, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A figure consisting of a transference of attributes from their
proper subjects to other. Thus Virgil says, "dare classibus austros,"
to give the winds to the fleets, instead of dare classibus austris,
to give the fleets to the winds.
The hypallage, of which Virgil is fonder than any other writer, is
much the gravest fault in language. Landor.

HYPALLELOMORPH
Hyp`al*le"lo*morph, n.

Defn: See Allelomorph.

HYPANTHIUM
Hy*pan"thi*um, n.; pl. L. Hypanthia, E. Hypanthiums. Etym: [NL., fr.
Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A fruit consisting in large part of a receptacle, enlarged
below the calyx, as in the alycanthus, the rose hip, and the pear.

HYPAPOPHYSIS
Hy`pa*poph"y*sis, n.; pl. Hypapophyles. Etym: [NL. See Hypo-, and
Apophysis.] (Anat.)

Defn: A process, or other element, of a vertebra developed from the
ventral side of the centrum, as hæmal spines, and chevron bones.
 -- Hy`pa*po*phys"i*al, a.

HYPARTERIAL
Hy`par*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [Hypo- + arterial.] (Anat.)

Defn: Situated below an artery; applied esp. to the branches of the
bronchi given off below the point where the pulmonary artery crosses
the bronchus.

HYPASPIST
Hy*pas"pist, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A shield-bearer or armor-bearer. Mitford.

HYPAXIAL
Hy*pax"i*al, a. Etym: [Hypo- + axial.] (Anat.)

Defn: Beneath the axis of the skeleton; subvertebral; hyposkeletal.

HYPE
hype n.

Defn: Intense publicity for a future event, performed in a showy or
excessively dramatic manner suggesting an importance not justified by
the event; as, the hype surrounding the superbowl is usually
ludicrous.
[PJC]

HYPE
hype v. t.

1. to publicize [e.g. a product or a future event] insistently, in a
manner exaggerating the importance of; to promote flamboyantly.
[wns=1]
[WordNet 1.5]

2. To stimulate or excite (a person); --usually used with up, and
often in the passive form; as, she was all hyped up over her upcoming
wedding.
[PJC]

HYPER-
Hy"per-. Etym: [Gr. super, E. over. See Over, and cf. Super-.]

1. A prefix signifying over, above; as, hyperphysical, hyperthyrion;
also, above measure, abnormally great, excessive; as, hyperæmia,
hyperbola, hypercritical, hypersecretion.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A prefix equivalent to super- or per-; as hyperoxide, or
peroxide. [Obs.] See Per-.

HYPERAEMIA
Hy`per*æ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A superabundance or congestion of blood in an organ or part of
the body. Active hyperæmia, cognestion d%ue to increased flow of
blood to a part.
 -- Passive hyperæmia, interchange due to obstruction in the return
of blood from a part.
 -- Hy`per*æ"mic, a.

HYPERAESTHESIA
Hy`per*æs*the"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med. & Physiol.)

Defn: A state of exalted or morbidly increased sensibility of the
body, or of a part of it.
 -- Hy`per*æs*thet"ic, a.

HYPERAPOPHYSIS
Hy`per*a*poph"y*sis, n.; pl. Hyperapophyses. Etym: [NL. See Hyper-,
and Apophysis.] (Anat.)

Defn: A lateral and backward-projecting process on the dorsal side of
a vertebra.
 -- Hy`per*ap`o*phys"i*al, a.

HYPERASPIST
Hy`per*as"pist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who holds a shield over another; hence, a defender. [Obs.]
Chillingworth.

HYPERBATIC
Hy`per*bat"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an hyperbaton; transposed; inverted.

HYPERBATON
Hy*per"ba*ton, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A figurative construction, changing or inverting the natural
order of words or clauses; as, "echoed the hills" for "the hills
echoed."
With a violent hyperbaton to transpose the text. Milton.

HYPERBOLA
Hy*per"bo*la, n. Etym: [Gr. i. e., of the angle which the cutting
plane makes with the base. See Hyperbole.] (Geom.)

Defn: A curve formed by a section of a cone, when the cutting plane
makes a greater angle with the base than the side of the cone makes.
It is a plane curve such that the difference of the distances from
any point of it to two fixed points, called foci, is equal to a given
distance. See Focus. If the cutting plane be produced so as to cut
the opposite cone, another curve will be formed, which is also an
hyperbola. Both curves are regarded as branches of the same
hyperbola. See Illust. of Conic section, and Focus.

HYPERBOLE
Hy*per"bo*le, n. Etym: [L., fr. GrHyper-, Parable, and cf.
Hyperbola.] (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech in which the expression is an evident
exaggeration of the meaning intended to be conveyed, or by which
things are represented as much greater or less, better or worse, than
they really are; a statement exaggerated fancifully, through
excitement, or for effect.
Our common forms of compliment are almost all of them extravagant
hyperboles. Blair.
Somebody has said of the boldest figure in rhetoric, the hyperbole,
that it lies without deceiving. Macaulay.

HYPERBOLIC; HYPERBOLICAL
Hy`per*bol"ic, Hy`per*bol"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. hyperbolicus, Gr.
hyperbolique.]

1. (Math.)

Defn: Belonging to the hyperbola; having the nature of the hyperbola.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: Relating to, containing, or of the nature of, hyperbole;
exaggerating or diminishing beyond the fact; exceeding the truth; as,
an hyperbolical expression. "This hyperbolical epitaph." Fuller.
Hyperbolic functions (Math.), certain functions which have relations
to the hyperbola corresponding to those which sines, cosines,
tangents, etc., have to the circle; and hence, called hyperbolic
sines, hyperbolic cosines, etc.
 -- Hyperbolic logarithm. See Logarithm.
 -- Hyperbolic spiral (Math.), a spiral curve, the law of which is,
that the distance from the pole to the generating point varies
inversely as the angle swept over by the radius vector.

HYPERBOLICALLY
Hy`per*bol"ic*al*ly, adv.

1. (Math.)

Defn: In the form of an hyperbola.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: With exaggeration; in a manner to express more or less than the
truth. Sir W. Raleigh.

HYPERBOLIFORM
Hy`per*bol"i*form, a. Etym: [Hyperbola + -form.]

Defn: Having the form, or nearly the form, of an hyperbola.

HYPERBOLISM
Hy*per"bo*lism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. hyperbolisme.]

Defn: The use of hyperbole. Jefferson.

HYPERBOLIST
Hy*per"bo*list, n.

Defn: One who uses hyperboles.

HYPERBOLIZE
Hy*per"bo*lize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Hyperbolized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Hyperbolizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. hyperboliser.]

Defn: To speak or write with exaggeration. Bp. Montagu.

HYPERBOLIZE
Hy*per"bo*lize, v. t.

Defn: To state or represent hyperbolically. Fotherby.

HYPERBOLOID
Hy*per"bo*loid, n. Etym: [Hyperbola + -oid: cf. F. hyperboloïde.]
(Geom.)

Defn: A surface of the second order, which is cut by certain planes
in hyperbolas; also, the solid, bounded in part by such a surface.
Hyperboloid of revolution, an hyperboloid described by an hyperbola
revolving about one of its axes. The surface has two separate sheets
when the axis of revolution is the transverse axis, but only one when
the axis of revolution is the conjugate axis of the hyperbola.

HYPERBOLOID
Hy*per"bo*loid, a. (Geom.)

Defn: Having some property that belongs to an hyperboloid or
hyperbola.

HYPERBOREAN
Hy`per*bo"re*an, a. Etym: [L. hyperboreus, Gr. Boreas.]

1. (Greek Myth.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the region beyond the North wind, or to its
inhabitants.

2. Northern; belonging to, or inhabiting, a region in very far north;
most northern; hence, very cold; fright, as, a hyperborean coast or
atmosphere.
The hyperborean or frozen sea. C. Butler (1633).

HYPERBOREAN
Hy`per*bo"re*an, n.

1. (Greek Myth.)

Defn: One of the people who lived beyond the North wind, in a land of
perpetual sunshine.

2. An inhabitant of the most northern regions.

HYPERCARBURETED
Hy`per*car"bu*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Having an excessive proportion of carbonic acid; -- said of
bicarbonates or acid carbonates. [Written also hypercarburetted.]

HYPERCATALECTIC
Hy`per*cat`a*lec"tic, a. Etym: [L. hypercatalecticus,
hypercatalectus, Gr. hypercatalectique. See Hyper-, and Catalectic.]
(Pros.)

Defn: Having a syllable or two beyond measure; as, a hypercatalectic
verse.

HYPERCHLORIC
Hy`per*chlo"ric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See Perchloric.

HYPERCHROMATISM
Hy`per*chro"ma*tism, n.

Defn: The condition of having an unusual intensity of color.

HYPERCRITIC
Hy`per*crit"ic, n. Etym: [Pref. hyper- + critic: cf. F.
hypercritique.]

Defn: One who is critical beyond measure or reason; a carping critic;
a captious censor. "Hypercritics in English poetry." Dryden.

HYPERCRITIC
Hy`per*crit"ic, a.

Defn: Hypercritical.

HYPERCRITICAL
Hy`per*crit"ic*al, a.

1. Over critical; unreasonably or unjustly critical; carping;
captious. "Hypercritical readers." Swift.

2. Excessively nice or exact. Evelyn.

HYPERCRITICALLY
Hy`per*crit"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a hypercritical manner.

HYPERCRITICISE
Hy`per*crit"i*cise, v. t.

Defn: To criticise with unjust severity; to criticise captiously.

HYPERCRITICISM
Hy`per*crit"i*cism, n.

Defn: Excessive criticism, or unjust severity or rigor of criticism;
zoilism.

HYPERDICROTIC
Hy`per*di*crot"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Excessive dicrotic; as, a hyperdicrotic pulse.

HYPERDICROTISM
Hy`per*di"cro*tism, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: A hyperdicrotic condition.

HYPERDICROTOUS
Hy`per*di"cro*tous, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Hyperdicrotic.

HYPERDULIA
Hy`per*du*li"a, n. Etym: [Pref. hyper- + dulia: cf. F. hyperdulie.]
(R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Veneration or worship given to the Virgin Mary as the most
exalted of mere creatures; higher veneration than dulia. Addis &
Arnold.

HYPERDULY
Hy"per*du`ly, n.

Defn: Hyperdulia. [Obs.]

HYPERESTHESIA
Hy`per*es*the"si*a, n.

Defn: Same as Hyperæsthesia.

HYPERICUM
Hy*per"i*cum, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, generally with dotted leaves and yellow
flowers; -- called also St. John's-wort.

HYPERINOSIS
Hy`per*i*no"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A condition of the blood, characterized by an abnormally large
amount of fibrin, as in many inflammatory diseases.

HYPERION
Hy*pe"ri*on, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class Myth.)

Defn: The god of the sun; in the later mythology identified with
Apollo, and distinguished for his beauty.
So excellent a king; that was, to this, Hyperion to a satyr. Shak.

HYPERKINESIS
Hy`per*ki*ne"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Abnormally increased muscular movement; spasm.

HYPERKINETIC
Hy`per*ki*net"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to hyperkinesis.

HYPERMETAMORPHOSIS
Hy`per*met`a*mor"pho*sis, n. Etym: [Hyper- + metamorphosis.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of metamorphosis, in certain insects, in which the larva
itself undergoes remarkable changes of form and structure during its
growth.

HYPERMETER
Hy*per"me*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. hypermètre.]

1. (Pros.)

Defn: A verse which has a redundant syllable or foot; a
hypercatalectic verse.

2. Hence, anything exceeding the ordinary standard.
When a man rises beyond six foot, he is an hypermeter. Addison.

HYPERMETRICAL
Hy`per*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Having a redundant syllable; exceeding the common measure.
Hypermetrical verse (Gr. & Lat. Pros.), a verse which contains a
syllable more than the ordinary measure.

HYPERMETROPIA; HYPERMETROPY
Hy`per*me*tro"pi*a, Hy`per*met"ro*py, n. Etym: [NL. hypermetropia,
fr. Gr. Hypermeter.]

Defn: A condition of the eye in which, through shortness of the
eyeball or fault of the refractive media, the rays of light come to a
focus behind the retina; farsightedness; -- called also hyperopia.
Cf. Emmetropia.

Note: In hypermetropia, vision for distant objects, although not
better absolutely, is better than that for near objects, and hence,
the individual is said to be farsighted. It is corrected by the use
of convex glasses.
 -- Hy`per*me*trop"ic, a.

HYPERMYRIORAMA
Hy`per*myr`i*o*ra"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A show or exhibition having a great number of scenes or views.

HYPERNOEA
Hy`per*noe"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Abnormal breathing, due to slightly deficient arterialization
of the blood; -- in distinction from eupnoea. See Eupnoea, and
Dispnoea.

HYPEROARTIA
Hy`per*o*ar"ti*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of marsipobranchs including the lampreys. The
suckerlike moth contains numerous teeth; the nasal opening is in the
middle of the head above, but it does not connect with the mouth. See
Cyclostoma, and Lamprey.

HYPEROPIA
Hy`per*o"pi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: Hypermetropia.
 -- Hy`per*op"tic, a.

HYPERORGANIC
Hy`per*or*gan"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. hyper- + organic.]

Defn: Higher than, or beyond the sphere of, the organic. Sir W.
Hamilton.

HYPERORTHODOXY
Hy`per*or"tho*dox`y, n.

Defn: Orthodoxy pushed to excess.

HYPEROTRETA
Hy`per*o*tre"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of marsipobranchs, including the Myxine or hagfish and
the genus Bdellostoma. They have barbels around the mouth, one tooth
on the plate, and a communication between tionnasal aperture and the
throat. See Hagfish. [Written also Hyperotreti.]

HYPEROXIDE
Hy`per*ox"ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound having a relatively large percentage of oxygen; a
peroxide. [Obs.]

HYPEROXYGENATED; HYPEROXYGENIZED
Hy`per*ox"y*gen*a`ted, Hy`per*ox"y*gen*ized, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with a relatively large amount of oxygen; -- said of
higher oxides. [Obs.]

HYPEROXYMURIATE
Hy`per*ox`y*mu"ri*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A perchlorate. [Obs.]

HYPEROXYMURIATIC
Hy`per*ox`y*mu`ri*at"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Perchloric; as, hyperoxymuriatic acid. [Obs.]

HYPERPHYSICAL
Hy`per*phys"ic*al, a.

Defn: Above or transcending physical laws; supernatural.
Those who do not fly to some hyperphysical hypothesis. Sir W.
Hamilton.

HYPERPLASIA
Hy`per*pla"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med. & Biol.)

Defn: An increase in, or excessive growth of, the normal elements of
any part.

Note: Hyperplasia relates to the formation of new elements,
hypertrophy being an increase in bulk of preexisting normal elements.
Dunglison.

HYPERPLASTIC
Hy`per*plas"tic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to hyperplasia.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Tending to excess of formative action.

HYPERPYREXIA
Hy`per*py*rex"i*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Hyper-, and Pyrexia.] (Med.)

Defn: A condition of excessive fever; an elevation of temperature in
a disease, in excess of the limit usually observed in that disease.

HYPERSECRETION
Hy`per*se*cre"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: Morbid or excessive secretion, as in catarrh.

HYPERSENSIBILITY
Hy`per*sen`si*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: See Hyperæsthesia.

HYPERSPACE
Hy"per*space, n. Etym: [Pref. hyper- + space.] (Geom.)

Defn: An imagined space having more than three dimensions.

HYPERSTHENE
Hy"per*sthene, n. Etym: [Gr. hyperstène.] (Min.)

Defn: An orthorhombic mineral of the pyroxene group, of a grayish or
greenish black color, often with a peculiar bronzelike luster
(schiller) on the cleavage surface.

HYPERSTHENIC
Hy`per*sthen"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Composed of, or containing, hypersthene.

HYPERTHETICAL
Hy`per*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Exaggerated; excessive; hyperbolical. [Obs.]
Hyperthetical or superlative . . . expression. Chapman.

HYPERTHYRION
Hy`per*thyr"i*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: That part of the architrave which is over a door or window.

HYPERTROPHIC; HYPERTROPHICAL
Hy`per*troph"ic, Hy`per*troph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
hypertrophique.] (Med. & Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to hypertrophy; affected with, or tending to,
hypertrophy.

HYPERTROPHIED
Hy*per"tro*phied, a. (Med. & Biol.)

Defn: Excessively developed; characterized by hypertrophy.

HYPERTROPHY
Hy*per"tro*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. hypertrophie.] (Med. & Biol.)

Defn: A condition of overgrowth or excessive development of an organ
or part; -- the opposite of atrophy.

HYPHAE
Hy"phæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. "yfh` a web.] (Bot.)

Defn: The long, branching filaments of which the mycelium (and the
greater part of the plant) of a fungus is formed. They are also found
enveloping the gonidia of lichens, making up a large part of their
structure.

HYPHEN
Hy"phen, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Hypo-.] (Print.)

Defn: A mark or short dash, thus [-], placed at the end of a line
which terminates with a syllable of a word, the remainder of which is
carried to the next line; or between the parts of many a compound
word; as in fine-leaved, clear-headed. It is also sometimes used to
separate the syllables of words.

HYPHEN
Hy"phen, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Hyphened; p. pr. & vb. n. Hyphening.]

Defn: To connect with, or separate by, a hyphen, as two words or the
parts of a word.

HYPHENATED
Hy"phen*a`ted, a.

Defn: United by hyphens; hyphened; as, a hyphenated or hyphened word.

HYPHOMYCETES
Hy`pho*my*ce"tes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the great division of fungi, containing those species
which have naked spores borne on free or only fasciculate threads. M.
J. Berkley.

HYPIDIOMORPHIC
Hy*pid`i*o*mor"phic, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + idiomorphic.]
(Crystallog.)

Defn: Partly idiomorphic; -- said of rock a portion only of whose
constituents have a distinct crystalline form.
 -- Hy*pid`i*o*mor"phic*al*ly, adv.

HYPINOSIS
Hyp`i*no"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A diminution in the normal amount of fibrin present in the
blood.

HYPNAGOGIC
Hyp`na*gog"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Leading to sleep; -- applied to the illusions of one who is
half asleep.

HYPNOBATE
Hyp"no*bate, n. Etym: [F., fr. Gr.

Defn: A somnambulist. [R.]

HYPNOCYST
Hyp"no*cyst, n. Etym: [Gr. cyst.] (Biol.)

Defn: A cyst in which some unicellular organisms temporarily inclose
themselves, from which they emerge unchanged, after a period of
drought or deficiency of food. In some instances, a process of spore
formation seems to occur within such cysts.

HYPNOGENIC
Hyp`no*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Relating to the production of hypnotic sleep; as, the so-called
hypnogenic pressure points, pressure upon which is said to cause an
attack of hypnotic sleep. De Watteville.

HYPNOLOGIST
Hyp*nol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in hypnology.

HYPNOLOGY
Hyp*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: A treatise on sleep; the doctrine of sleep.

HYPNOSCOPE
Hyp"no*scope, n. [Gr.  + -scope.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the susceptibility of a person
to hypnotic influences.

HYPNOSIS
Hyp*no"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Supervention of sleep.

HYPNOTIC
Hyp*not"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. somnus, and E. somnolent: cf. F.
hypnotique.]

1. Having the quality of producing sleep; tending to produce sleep;
soporific.

2. Of or pertaining to hypnotism; in a state of hypnotism; liable to
hypnotism; as, a hypnotic condition.

HYPNOTIC
Hyp*not"ic, n.

1. Any agent that produces, or tends to produce, sleep; an opiate; a
soporific; a narcotic.

2. A person who exhibits the phenomena of, or is subject to,
hypnotism.

HYPNOTISM
Hyp"no*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. hypnotisme.]

Defn: A form of sleep or somnambulism brought on by artificial means,
in which there is an unusual suspension of some powers, and an
unusual activity of others. It is induced by an action upon the
nerves, through the medium of the senses, as in persons of very
feeble organization, by gazing steadly at a very bright object held
before the eyes, or by pressure upon certain points of the surface of
the body.

HYPNOTIZATION
Hyp`no*ti*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of producing hypnotism.

HYPNOTIZE
Hyp"no*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Hypnotized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Hypnotizing.]

Defn: To induce hypnotism in; to place in a state of hypnotism.

HYPNOTIZER
Hyp"no*ti`zer, n.

Defn: One who hypnotizes.

HYPNUM
Hyp"num, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The largest genus of true mosses; feather moss.

HYPO-
Hy"po-. Etym: [Gr. sub. See Sub-.]

1. A prefix signifying a less quantity, or a low state or degree, of
that denoted by the word with which it is joined, or position under
or beneath.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A prefix denoting that the element to the name of which it is
prefixed enters with a low valence, or in a low state of oxidization,
usually the lowest, into the compounds indicated; as, hyposulphurous
acid.

HYPO
Hy"po, n.

Defn: Hypochondria. [Colloq.]

HYPO
Hy"po, n. Etym: [Abbrev. from hyposulphite.] (Photog.)

Defn: Sodium hyposulphite, or thiosulphate, a solution of which is
used as a bath to wash out the unchanged silver salts in a picture.
[Colloq.]

HYPOARIAN
Hy`po*a"ri*an, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a hypoarion.

HYPOARION
Hy`po*a"ri*on, n.; pl. Hypoaria. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: An oval lobe beneath each of the optic lobes in many fishes;
one of the inferior lobes. Owen.

HYPOBLAST
Hy"po*blast, n. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + -blast.] (Biol.)

Defn: The inner or lower layer of the blastoderm; -- called also
endoderm, entoderm, and sometimes hypoderm. See Illust. of
Blastoderm, Delamination, and Ectoderm.

HYPOBLASTIC
Hy`po*blas"tic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to, or connected with, the hypoblast; as, the hypoic
sac.

HYPOBOLE
Hy*pob"o*le, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure in which several things are mentioned that seem to
make against the argument, or in favor of the opposite side, each of
them being refuted in order.

HYPOBRANCHIAL
Hy`po*bran"chi*al, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + branchial.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the segment between the basibranchial and the
ceratobranchial in a branchial arch.
 -- n.

Defn: A hypobranchial bone or cartilage.

HYPOCARP; HYPOCARPIUM
Hy"po*carp, Hy`po*car"pi*um, n. Etym: [NL. hypocarpium, fr. Gr.
(Bot.)

Defn: A fleshy enlargement of the receptacle, or for the stem, below
the proper fruit, as in the cashew. See Illust. of Cashew.

HYPOCARPOGEAN
Hy`po*car`po*ge"an, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing fruit below the ground.

HYPOCAUST
Hyp"o*caust, n. Etym: [L. hypocaustum, Gr. hypocauste.] (Anc. Arch.)

Defn: A furnace, esp. one connected with a series of small chambers
and flues of tiles or other masonry through which the heat of a fire
was distributed to rooms above. This contrivance, first used in bath,
was afterwards adopted in private houses.

HYPOCHLORITE
Hy`po*chlo"rite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of hypochlorous acid; as, a calcium hypochloride.

HYPOCHLOROUS
Hy`po*chlo"rous, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + chlorous.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, chlorine having a valence lower
than in chlorous compounds. Hypochlorous acid (Chem.), an acid
derived from chlorine, not known in a pure state, but forming various
salts, called hypochlorites.

HYPOCHONDRES
Hy`po*chon"dres, n. pl. Etym: [F. hypocondres, formerly spely
hypochondres.]

Defn: The hypochondriac regions. See Hypochondrium.

HYPOCHONDRIA
Hy`po*chon"dri*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: Hypochondriasis; melancholy; the blues.

HYPOCHONDRIAC
Hy`po*chon"dri*ac, a. Etym: [Gr. hypocondriaque, formerly spelt
hypochondriaque.]

1. Of or pertaining to hypochondria, or the hypochondriac regions.

2. Affected, characterized, or produced, by hypochondriasis.
Hypochondriac region (Anat.), a region on either side of the abdomen
beneath the cartilages of the false ribs, beside the epigastric, and
above the lumbar, region.

HYPOCHONDRIAC
Hy`po*chon"dri*ac, n.

Defn: A person affected with hypochondriasis.
He had become an incurable hypochondriac. Macaulay.

HYPOCHONDRIACAL
Hy`po*chon"dri*a*cal, a.

Defn: Same as Hypochondriac, 2.
 -- Hy`po*chon"dri*a*cal*ly, adv.

HYPOCHONDRIACISM
Hy`po*chon"dri*a*cism, n. (Med.)

Defn: Hypochondriasis. [R.]

HYPOCHONDRIASIS
Hy`po*chon"dri*a*sis, n. Etym: [NL. So named because supposed to have
its seat in the hypochondriac regions. See Hypochondriac,
Hypochondrium, and cf. Hyp, 1st Hypo.] (Med.)

Defn: A mental disorder in which melancholy and gloomy views torment
the affected person, particularly concerning his own health.

HYPOCHONDRIASM
Hy`po*chon"dri*asm, n. (Med.)

Defn: Hypochondriasis. [R.]

HYPOCHONDRIUM
Hy`po*chon"dri*um, n.; pl. L. Hypochondria, E. Hypochondriums. Etym:
[L., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Either of the hypochondriac regions.

HYPOCHONDRY
Hy`po*chon"dry, n.

Defn: Hypochondriasis.

HYPOCIST
Hyp"o*cist, n. Etym: [Gr. Cistus.]

Defn: An astringent inspissated juice obtained from the fruit of a
plant (Cytinus hypocistis), growing from the roots of the Cistus, a
small European shrub.

HYPOCLEIDIUM
Hy`po*clei"di*um, n.; pl. L. Hypocleida, E. Hypocleidiums. Etym:
[NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A median process on the furculum, or merrythought, of many
birds, where it is connected with the sternum.

HYPOCORISTIC
Hyp`o*co*ris"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Endearing; diminutive; as, the hypocoristic form of a name.
The hypocoristic or pet form of William. Dr. Murray.

HYPOCRATERIFORM
Hyp`o*cra*ter"i*form, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: hypocraterimorphous; salver-shaped. Wood.

HYPOCRATERIMORPHOUS
Hyp`o*cra*ter`i*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Salver-shaped; having a slender tube, expanding suddenly above
into a bowl-shaped or spreading border, as in the blossom of the
phlox and the lilac.

HYPOCRISY
Hy*poc"ri*sy, n.; pl. Hypocrisies. Etym: [OE. hypocrisie, ypocrisie,
OF. hypocrisie, ypocrisie, F. hypocrisie, L. hypocrisis, fr. Gr.
Hypo-, and Critic.]

Defn: The act or practice of a hypocrite; a feigning to be what one
is not, or to feel what one does not feel; a dissimulation, or a
concealment of one's real character, disposition, or motives;
especially, the assuming of false appearance of virtue or religion; a
simulation of goodness.
Hypocrisy is the necessary burden of villainy. Rambler.
Hypocrisy is the homage vice pays to virtue. La Rochefoucauld (Trans.
).

HYPOCRITE
Hyp"o*crite, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. hypocrita, Gr. Hypocrisy.]

Defn: One who plays a part; especially, one who, for the purpose of
winning approbation of favor, puts on a fair outside seeming; one who
feigns to be other and better than he is; a false pretender to virtue
or piety; one who simulates virtue or piety.
The hypocrite's hope shall perish. Job viii. 13.
I dare swear he is no hypocrite, but prays from his heart. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Deceiver; pretender; cheat. See Dissembler.

HYPOCRITELY
Hyp"o*crite*ly, adv.

Defn: Hypocritically. [R.] Sylvester.

HYPOCRITIC
Hyp`o*crit"ic, a.

Defn: See Hypocritical. Swift.

HYPOCRITICAL
Hyp`o*crit"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. hypocritique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a hypocrite, or to hypocrisy; as, a
hypocriticalperson; a hypocritical look; a hypocritical action.
Hypocritical professions of friendship and of pacific intentions were
not spared. Macaulay.
-- Hyp`o*crit"ic*al*ly, adv.

HYPOCRYSTALLINE
Hyp`o*crys"tal*line, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + crystalline.]
(Crystallog.)

Defn: Partly crystalline; -- said of rock which consists of crystals
imbedded in a glassy ground mass.

HYPOCYCLOID
Hy`po*cy"cloid, n. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + cycloid: cf. F.
hypocycloïde.] (Geom.)

Defn: A curve traced by a point in the circumference of a circle
which rolls on the concave side in the fixed circle. Cf. Epicycloid,
and Trochoid.

HYPODACTYLUM
Hyp`o*dac"ty*lum, n.; pl. -tyla. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The under side of the toes.

HYPODERM
Hyp"o*derm, n. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + -derm.] (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Hypoblast.

HYPODERMA
Hyp`o*der"ma, n. Etym: [NL. See Hypo, and derma.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A layer of tissue beneath the epidermis in plants, and
performing the physiological function of strengthening the epidermal
tissue. In phanerogamous plants it is developed as collenchyma.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An inner cellular layer which lies beneath the chitinous
cuticle of arthropods, annelids, and some other invertebrates.

HYPODERMATIC
Hyp`o*der*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Hypodermic.
 -- Hyp`o*der*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

HYPODERMIC
Hyp`o*der"mic, a. Etym: [See Hypoderma.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the parts under the skin. Hypodermic
medication, the application of remedies under the epidermis, usually
by means of a small syringe, called the hypodermic syringe.
 -- Hyp`o*der"mic*al*ly, adv.

HYPODERMIS
Hyp`o*der"mis, n. Etym: [NL. See Hypo-, and Derma.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Hypoblast.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Hypoderma, 2.

HYPODICROTIC; HYPODICROTOUS
Hyp`o*di*crot"ic, Hyp`o*di"cro*tous, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Exhibiting retarded dicrotism; as, a hypodicrotic pulse curve.

HYPOGAEIC
Hyp`o*gæ"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. gai^a, gh^, earth.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the peanut, or earthnut
(Arachis hypogæa). Hypogæic acid (Chem.), an acid in the oil of the
earthnut, in which it exists as a glyceride, and from which it is
extracted as a white, crystalline substance.

HYPOGASTRIC
Hyp`o*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hypogastrique. See Hypogastrium.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the hypogastrium or the hypogastric region.
Hypogastric region. (a) The lower part of the abdomen. (b) An
arbitrary division of the abdomen below the umbilical and between the
two iliac regions.

HYPOGASTRIUM
Hyp`o*gas"tri*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The lower part of the abdomen.

HYPOGEAN
Hyp`o*ge"an, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Hypogeous. [Written also hypogæan.]

HYPOGENE
Hyp"o*gene, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + the root of Gr. hypogène.]
(Geol.)

Defn: Formed or crystallized at depths the earth's surface; -- said
of granite, gneiss, and other rocks, whose crystallization is
believed of have taken place beneath a great thickness of overlying
rocks. Opposed to epigene.

HYPOGEOUS
Hyp`o*ge"ous, a. Etym: [See Hypogean.] (Bot.)

Defn: Growing under ground; remaining under ground; ripening its
fruit under ground. [Written also hypogæous.]

HYPOGEUM
Hyp`o*ge"um, n.; pl. Hypogea. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Anc. Arch.)

Defn: The subterraneous portion of a building, as in amphitheaters,
for the service of the games; also, subterranean galleries, as the
catacombs.

HYPOGLOSSAL
Hyp`o*glos"sal, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Under the tongue; -- applied esp., in the higher vertebrates,
to the twelfth or last pair of cranial nerves, which are distributed
to the base of the tongue.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the hypoglossal nerves.

HYPOGNATOUS
Hy*pog"na*tous, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the maxilla, or lower jaw, longer than the upper, as in
the skimmer.

HYPOGYN
Hyp"o*gyn, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An hypogynous plant.

HYPOGYNOUS
Hy*pog"y*nous, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. hypogyne.] (Bot.)

Defn: Inserted below the pistil or pistils; -- said of sepals,
petals, and stamens; having the sepals, petals, and stamens inserted
below the pistil; -- said of a flower or a plant. Gray.

HYPOHYAL
Hy`po*hy"al, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Greek letter (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to one or more small elements in the hyoidean arch
of fishes, between the caratohyal and urohyal.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the hypohyal bones or cartilages.

HYPONASTIC
Hy`po*nas"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Exhibiting a downward convexity caused by unequal growth. Cf.
Epinastic.

HYPONASTY
Hy`po*nas"ty, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Downward convexity, or convexity of the inferior surface.

HYPONITRITE
Hy`po*ni"trite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of hyponitrous acid.

HYPONITROUS
Hy`po*ni"trous, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + nitrous.] (Chem.)

Defn: Containing or derived from nitrogen having a lower valence than
in nitrous compounds. Hyponitrous acid (Chem.), an unstable nitrogen
acid, NOH, whose salts are produced by reduction of the nitrates,
although the acid itself is not isolated in the free state except as
a solution in water; -- called also nitrosylic acid.

HYPOPHARYNX
Hy`po*phar"ynx, n. Etym: [NL. See Hypo-, and Pharynx.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An appendage or fold on the lower side of the pharynx, in
certain insects.

HYPOPHOSPHATE
Hy`po*phos"phate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of hypophosphoric acid.

HYPOPHOSPHITE
Hy`po*phos"phite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of hypophosphorous acid.

HYPOPHOSPHORIC
Hy`po*phos*phor"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + phosphoric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, or containing, phosphorus in a
lower state of oxidation than in phosphoric compounds; as,
hypophosphoric acid. Hypophosphoric acid (Chem.), an acid, P2H4O6,
produced by the slow oxidation of moist phosphorus, and isolated only
as a solution in water. It is regarded as a condensation product of
one molecule of phosphoric acid with one of phosphorous acid, by
partial dehydration.

HYPOPHOSPHOROUS
Hy`po*phos"phor*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + phosphorous.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, phosphorus in a lower state of
oxidation than in phosphoric compounds; as, hypophosphorous acid.
Hypophosphorous acid (Chem.) , an acid, H3PO2, whose salts are
produced by the action of barium hygrate on phosphorus. It may be
obtained from its water solution, by exaporation and freezing, as a
white crystalline substance. It is a powerful reducing agent.

HYPOPHYLLOUS
Hy*poph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Being or growing on the under side of a leaf, as the fruit dots
of ferns.

HYPOPHYSIAL
Hy`po*phys"i*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the hypophysis; pituitary.

HYPOPHYSIS
Hy*poph"y*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: See Pituitary body, under Pituitary.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Cataract.

HYPOPLASTRON
Hy`po*plas"tron, n.; pl. Hypoplastra. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + plastron.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The third lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called
also hyposternum.

HYPOPTILUM
Hy*pop"ti*lum, n.; pl. L. Hypoptila, E. Hypoptilums. Etym: [NL., fr.
Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An accessory plume arising from the posterior side of the stem
of the contour feathers of many birds; -- called also aftershaft. See
Illust. of Feather.

HYPORADIUS
Hy`po*ra"di*us, n.; pl. Hyporadii. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + radius.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the barbs of the hypoptilum, or aftershaft of a feather.
See Feather.

HYPORHACHIS
Hy`po*rha"chis, n.; pl. Hyporhachides. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The stem of an aftershaft or hypoptilum. [Written also
hyporachis.]

HYPOSKELETAL
Hy`po*skel"e*tal, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + skeletal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Beneath the endoskeleton; hypaxial; as, the hyposkeletal
muscles; -- opposed to episkeletal.

HYPOSPADIAS
Hy`po*spa"di*as, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A deformity of the penis, in which the urethra opens upon its
under surface.

HYPOSTASIS
Hy*pos"ta*sis, n.; pl. Hypostases. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Hypo-, and
Stand.]

1. That which forms the basis of anything; underlying principle; a
concept or mental entity conceived or treated as an existing being or
thing.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: Substance; subsistence; essence; person; personality; -- used
by the early theologians to denote any one of the three subdivisions
of the Godhead, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

Note: The Council of Alexandria (a.d. 362) defined hypostasis as
synonymous with person. Schaff-Herzog.

3. Principle; an element; -- used by the alchemists in speaking of
salt, sulphur, and mercury, which they considered as the three
principles of all material bodies.

4. (Med.)

Defn: That which is deposited at the bottom of a fluid; sediment.

HYPOSTASIZE
Hy*pos"ta*size, v. t.

Defn: To make into a distinct substance; to conceive or treat as an
existing being; to hypostatize. [R.]
The pressed Newtonians . . . refused to hypostasize the law of
gravitation into an ether. Coleridge.

HYPOSTATIC; HYPOSTATICAL
Hy`po*stat"ic, Hy`po*stat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. hypostatique.]

1. Relating to hypostasis, or substance; hence, constitutive, or
elementary.
The grand doctrine of the chymists, touching their three hypostatical
principles. Boyle.

2. Personal, or distinctly personal; relating to the divine
hypostases, or substances. Bp. Pearson.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Depending upon, or due to, deposition or setting; as,
hypostatic cognestion, cognestion due to setting of blood by
gravitation. Hypostatic union (Theol.), the union of the divine with
the human nature of Christ. Tillotson.

HYPOSTATICALLY
Hy`po*stat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a hypostatic manner.

HYPOSTATIZE
Hy*pos"ta*tize, v. t.

1. To make into, or regarded as, a separate and distinct substance.
Looked upon both species and genera as hypostatized universals. Pop.
Sci. Monthly.

2. To attribute actual or personal existence to. Sir W. Hamilton.

HYPOSTERNUM
Hy`po*ster"num, n.; pl. L. Hyposterna, E. Hyposternums. Etym: [Pref.
hypo- + sternum.] (Anat.)

Defn: See Hypoplastron.

HYPOSTOME; HYPOSTOMA
Hy"po*stome, Hy*pos"to*ma, n. Etym: [NL. hypostoma, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lower lip of trilobites, crustaceans, etc.

HYPOSTROPHE
Hy*pos"tro*phe, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) The act of a patient turning himself.
(b) A relapse, or return of a disease.

HYPOSTYLE
Hy"po*style, a. Etym: [Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: Resting upon columns; constructed by means of columns; --
especially applied to the great hall at Karnak.

HYPOSULPHATE
Hy`po*sul"phate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of hyposulphuric acid.

HYPOSULPHITE
Hy`po*sul"phite, n. (Chem.)
(a) A salt of what was formerly called hyposulphurous acid; a
thiosulphate. [Obs.]
(b) A salt of hyposulphurous acid proper.

HYPOSULPHURIC
Hy`po*sul*phur"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + sulphuric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, sulphur in a lower state of
oxidation than in the sulphuric compounds; as, hyposulphuric acid.
Hyposulphuric acid, an acid, H2S2O6, obtained by the action of
manganese dioxide on sulphur dioxide, and known only in a watery
solution and in its salts; -- called also dithionic acid. See
Dithionic.

HYPOSULPHUROUS
Hy`po*sul"phur*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + sulphurous.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, sulphur, all, or a part, in a low
state of oxidation. Hyposulphurous acid. (a) Thiosulphuric acid.
[Obs.] (b) An acid, H2SO2, obtained by the reduction of sulphurous
acid. It is not obtained in the free state, but in an orange-yellow
water solution, which is a strong reducing and bleaching agent.
Called also hydrosulphurous acid.

HYPOTARSUS
Hy`po*tar"sus, n.; pl. Hypotarsi. Etym: [NL. See Hypo-, and Tarsus.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A process on the posterior side of the tarsometatarsus of many
birds; the calcaneal process.
 -- Hy`po*tar"sal, a.

HYPOTENUSE; HYPOTHENUSE
Hy*pot"e*nuse, Hy*poth"e*nuse, n. Etym: [L. hypotenusa, Gr. Subtend.]
(Geom.)

Defn: The side of a right-angled triangle that is opposite to the
right angle.

HYPOTHEC
Hy*poth"ec, n. Etym: [F. hypothèque. See Hypotheca.] (Scot. Law)

Defn: A landlord's right, independently of stipulation, over the
stocking (cattle, implements, etc.), and crops of his tenant, as
security for payment of rent.

HYPOTHECA
Hy`po*the"ca, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Hypothesis.] (Rom. Law)

Defn: An obligation by which property of a debtor was made over to
his creditor in security of his debt.

Note: It differed from pledge in regard to possession of the property
subject to the obligation; pledge requiring, simple hypotheca not
requiring, possession of it by the creditor. The modern mortgage
corresponds very closely with it. Kent.

HYPOTHECATE
Hy*poth"e*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Hypothecated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Hypothecating.] Etym: [LL. hypothecatus, p.p. of hypothecare to
pledge, fr. L. hypotheca pledge, security. See Hypotheca.] (Law)

Defn: To subject, as property, to liability for a debt or engagement
without delivery of possession or transfer of title; to pledge
without delivery of possession; to mortgage, as ships, or other
personal property; to make a contract by bottomry. See Hypothecation,
Bottomry.
He had found the treasury empty and the pay of the navy in arrear. He
had no power to hypothecate any part of the public revenue. Those who
lent him money lent it on no security but his bare word. Macaulay.

HYPOTHECATION
Hy*poth`e*ca"tion, n. Etym: [LL. hypothecatio.]

1. (Civ. Law)

Defn: The act or contract by which property is hypothecated; a right
which a creditor has in or to the property of his debtor, in virtue
of which he may cause it to be sold and the price appropriated in
payment of his debt. This is a right in the thing, or jus in re.
Pothier. B. R. Curtis.
There are but few cases, if any, in our law, where an hypothecation,
in the strict sense of the Roman law, exists; that is a pledge
without possession by the pledgee. Story.

Note: In the modern civil law, this contract has no application to
movable property, not even to ships, to which and their cargoes it is
most frequently applied in England and America. See Hypothecate. B.
R. Curtis. Domat.

2. (Law of Shipping)

Defn: A contract whereby, in consideration of money advanced for the
necessities of the ship, the vessel, freight, or cargo is made liable
for its repayment, provided the ship arrives in safety. It is usually
effected by a bottomry bond. See Bottomry.

Note: This term is often applied to mortgages of ships.

HYPOTHECATOR
Hy*poth"e*ca`tor, n. (Law)

Defn: One who hypothecates or pledges anything as security for the
repayment of money borrowed.

HYPOTHENAL; HYPOTHENAR
Hy*poth"e*nal, Hy*poth"e*nar, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + thenar.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the prominent part of the palm of the hand
above the base of the little finger, or a corresponding part in the
forefoot of an animal; as, the hypothenar eminence.

HYPOTHENAR
Hy*poth"e*nar, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The hypothenar eminence.

HYPOTHENUSAL
Hy*poth`e*nu"sal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to hypothenuse. [R.]

HYPOTHENUSE
Hy*poth"e*nuse, n.

Defn: Same as Hypotenuse.

HYPOTHESIS
Hy*poth"e*sis, n.; pl. Hypotheses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Hypo-,
Thesis.]

1. A supposition; a proposition or principle which is supposed or
taken for granted, in order to draw a conclusion or inference for
proof of the point in question; something not proved, but assumed for
the purpose of argument, or to account for a fact or an occurrence;
as, the hypothesis that head winds detain an overdue steamer.
An hypothesis being a mere supposition, there are no other limits to
hypotheses than those of the human imagination. J. S. Mill.

2. (Natural Science)

Defn: A tentative theory or supposition provisionally adopted to
explain certain facts, and to guide in the investigation of others;
hence, frequently called a working hypothesis.

Syn.
 -- Supposition; assumption. See Theory. Nebular hypothesis. See
under Nebular.

HYPOTHETIC; HYPOTHETICAL
Hy`po*thet"ic, Hy`po*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. hypotheticus, Gr.
hypothétique.]

Defn: Characterized by, or of the nature of, an hypothesis;
conditional; assumed without proof, for the purpose of reasoning and
deducing proof, or of accounting for some fact or phenomenon.
Causes hypothetical at least, if not real, for the various phenomena
of the existence of which our experience informs us. Sir W. Hamilton.
Hypothetical baptism (Ch. of Eng.), baptism administered to persons
in respect to whom it is doubtful whether they have or have not been
baptized before. Hook.
 -- Hy`po*thet"ic*al*ly, adv. South.

HYPOTHETIST
Hy*poth"e*tist, n.

Defn: One who proposes or supports an hypothesis. [R.]

HYPOTRACHELIUM
Hy`po*tra*che"li*um, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Gorgerin.

HYPOTRICHA
Hy*pot"ri*cha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of ciliated Infusoria in which the cilia cover only
the under side of the body.

HYPOTROCHOID
Hy`po*tro"choid, n. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + trochoid.] (Geom.)

Defn: A curve, traced by a point in the radius, or radius produced,
of a circle which rolls upon the concave side of a fixed circle. See
Hypocycloid, Epicycloid, and Trochoid.

HYPOTYPOSIS
Hy`po*ty*po"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A vivid, picturesque description of scenes or events.

HYPOXANTHIN
Hy`po*xan"thin, n. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + xanthin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline, nitrogenous substance, closely related to
xanthin and uric acid, widely distributed through the animal body,
but especially in muscle tissue; -- called also sarcin, sarkin.

HYPOZOIC
Hy`po*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: Anterior in age to the lowest rocks which contain organic
remains. Lyell.

HYPPISH
Hyp"pish, a. Etym: [From Hyp.]

Defn: Affected with hypochondria; hypped. [Written also hyppish.]

HYPPOGRIFF
Hyp"po*griff, n.

Defn: See Hyppogriff.

HYPSILOID
Hyp"si*loid, a. Etym: [From -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling the Greek letter

HYPSOMETER
Hyp*som"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring heights by observation of
barometric pressure; esp., one for determining heights by
ascertaining the boiling point of water. It consists of a vessel for
water, with a lamp for heating it, and an inclosed thermometer for
showing the temperature of ebullition.

HYPSOMETRIC; HYPSOMETRICAL
Hyp`so*met"ric, Hyp`so*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to hypsometry.

HYPSOMETRY
Hyp*som"e*try, n.

Defn: That branch of the science of geodesy which has to do with the
measurement of heights, either absolutely with reference to the sea
level, or relatively.

HYPURAL
Hy*pu"ral, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Under the tail; -- applied to the bones which support the
caudal fin rays in most fishes.

HYRACOID
Hy"ra*coid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Hyracoidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Hyracoidea.

HYRACOIDEA
Hyr`a*coi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Hyrax, and oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of small hoofed mammals, comprising the single living
genus Hyrax.

HYRAX
Hy"rax, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any animal of the genus Hyrax, of which about four species are
known. They constitute the order Hyracoidea. The best known species
are the daman (H. Syriacus) of Palestine, and the klipdas (H.
capensis) of South Africa. Other species are H. arboreus and H.
Sylvestris, the former from Southern, and the latter from Western,
Africa. See Daman.

HYRCANIAN; HYRCAN
Hyr*ca"ni*an, Hyr"can, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Hyrcania, an ancient country or province of
Asia, southeast of the Caspian (which was also called the Hyracanian)
Sea. "The Hyrcan tiger." "Hyracanian deserts." Shak.

HYRSE
Hyrse, n. Etym: [G. hirse, OHG. hirsi.] (Bot.)

Defn: Millet.

HYRST
Hyrst, n.

Defn: A wood. See Hurst.

HYSON
Hy"son, n. Etym: [Chin. hi-tshun, lit., first crop, or blooming
spring.]

Defn: A fragrant kind of green tea. Hyson skin, the light and
inferior leaves separated from the hyson by a winnowing machine.
M'Culloch.

HYSSOP
Hys"sop, n. Etym: [OE. hysope, ysope, OF. ysope, F. hysope, hyssope,
L. hysopum, hyssopum, hyssopus, Gr. esov.]

Defn: A plant (Hyssopus officinalis). The leaves have an aromatic
smell, and a warm, pungent taste.

Note: The hyssop of Scripture is supposed to be a species of caper
(Capparis spinosa), but probably the name was used for several
different plants.

HYSTERANTHOUS
Hys`ter*an"thous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the leaves expand after the flowers have opened.
Henslow.

HYSTERESIS
Hys`te*re"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Physics)

Defn: A lagging or retardation of the effect, when the forces acting
upon a body are changed, as if from velocity or internal friction; a
temporary resistance to change from a condition previously invuced,
observed in magnetism, thermoelectricity, etc., on reversal of
polarity.

HYSTERETIC
Hys`ter*et"ic, a. (Elec.)

Defn: Of or pert. to hysteresis. -- Hysteretic constant, the
hysteretic loss in ergs per cubic centimeter per cycle.

HYSTERIA
Hys*te"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL.: cf. F. hystérie. See Hysteric.] (Med.)

Defn: A nervous affection, occurring almost exclusively in women, in
which the emotional and reflex excitability is exaggerated, and the
will power correspondingly diminished, so that the patient loses
control over the emotions, becomes the victim of imaginary
sensations, and often falls into paroxism or fits.

Note: The chief symptoms are convulsive, tossing movements of the
limbs and head, uncontrollable crying and laughing, and a choking
sensation as if a ball were lodged in the throat. The affection
presents the most varied symptoms, often simulating those of the
gravest diseases, but generally curable by mental treatment alone.

HYSTERIC; HYSTERICAL
Hys*ter"ic, Hys*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. hystericus, Gr. utter, out.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to hysteria; affected, or troubled, with
hysterics; convulsive, fitful.
With no hysteric weakness or feverish excitement, they preserved
their peace and patience. Bancroft.

HYSTERICS
Hys*ter"ics, n. pl. (Med.)

Defn: Hysteria.

HYSTEROEPILEPSY
Hys`ter*o*ep"i*lep`sy, n. Etym: [Hysteria + epilepsy.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease resembling hysteria in its nature, and characterized
by the occurrence of epileptiform convulsions, which can often be
controlled or excited by pressure on the ovaries, and upon other
definite points in the body.
 -- Hys`ter*o*ep`i*lep"tic, a.

HYSTEROGENIC
Hys`ter*o*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Hysteria + root of Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Producing hysteria; as, the hysterogenicpressure points on the
surface of the body, pressure upon which is said both to produce and
arrest an attack of hysteria. De Watteville.

HYSTEROLOGY
Hys`ter*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. hystérologie.] (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which the ordinary course of thought is inverted in
expression, and the last put first; -- called also hysteron proteron.

HYSTERON PROTERON
Hys"te*ron prot"e*ron. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)
(a) A figure in which the natural order of sense is reversed;
hysterology; as, valet atque vivit, "he is well and lives."
(b) An inversion of logical order, in which the conclusion is put
before the premises, or the thing proved before the evidence.

HYSTEROPHYTE
Hys*ter"o*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant, like the fungus, which lives on dead or living organic
matter.
 -- Hys`ter*oph"y*tal, a.

HYSTEROTOMY
Hys`ter*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. hystérotomie.] (Med.)

Defn: The Cæsarean section. See under Cæsarean.

HYSTRICINE
Hys"tri*cine, a. Etym: [See Hystrix.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the porcupines.

HYSTRICOMORPHOUS
Hys`tri*co*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Hystrix + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or allied to, the porcupines; -- said of a group
(Hystricomorpha) of rodents.