

HYSTRIX
Hys"trix, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of rodents, including the porcupine.

HYTHE
Hythe, n.

Defn: A small haven. See Hithe. [Obs.]

I

1. I, the ninth letter of the English alphabet, takes its form from
the Phoenician, through the Latin and the Greek. The Phoenician
letter was probably of Egyptian origin. Its original value was nearly
the same as that of the Italian I, or long e as in mete.
Etymologically I is most closely related to e, y, j, g; as in dint,
dent, beverage, L. bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E. thin, AS. ynne; E.
dominion, donjon, dungeon. In English I has two principal vowel
sounds: the long sound, as in pine, ice; and the short sound, as in
pîn. It has also three other sounds: (a) That of e in term, as in
thirst. (b) That of e in mete (in words of foreign origin), as in
machine, pique, regime. (c) That of consonant y (in many words in
which it precedes another vowel), as in bunion, million, filial,
Christian, etc. It enters into several digraphs, as in fail, field,
seize, feign. friend; and with o often forms a proper diphtong, as in
oil, join, coin.

See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 98-106.

Note: The dot which we place over the small or lower case i dates
only from the 14th century. The sounds of I and J were originally
represented by the same character, and even after the introduction of
the form J into English dictionaries, words containing these letters
were, till a comparatively recent time, classed together.

2. In our old authors, I was often used for ay (or aye), yes, which
is pronounced nearly like it.

3. As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc.

I-
I-, prefix.

Defn: See Y-.

I
I, pron. [poss. My or Mine (; object. Me. pl. nom. We (; poss. Our or
Ours (; object. Us.] Etym: [OE. i, ich, ic, AS. ic; akin to OS. & D.
ik, OHG. ih, G. ich, Icel. ek, Dan. jeg, Sw. jag, Goth. ik, OSlav.
az', Russ. ia, W. i, L. ego, Gr. aham. sq. root179. Cf. Egoism.]

Defn: The nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the
word with which a speaker or writer denotes himself.

IAMATOLOGY
I*am`a*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Med.)

Defn: Materia Medica; that branch of therapeutics which treats of
remedies.

IAMB
I"amb, n. Etym: [Cf. F. iambe. See Lambus.]

Defn: An iambus or iambic. [R.]

IAMBIC
I*am"bic, a. Etym: [L. iambicus, Gr. iambique.]

1. (Pros.)

Defn: Consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, or of an
unaccented syllable followed by an accented; as, an iambic foot.

2. Pertaining to, or composed of, iambics; as, an iambic verse;
iambic meter. See Lambus.

IAMBIC
I*am"bic, n.

1. (Pros.)
(a) An iambic foot; an iambus.
(b) A verse composed of iambic feet.

Note: The following couplet consists of iambic verses.
Thy gen- | ius calls | thee not | to pur- | chase fame In keen | iam-
| bics, but | mild an- | agram. Dryden.

2. A satirical poem (such poems having been anciently written in
iambic verse); a satire; a lampoon.

IAMBICAL
I*am"bic*al, a.

Defn: Iambic. [Obs. or R.]

IAMBICALLY
I*am"bic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a iambic manner; after the manner of iambics.

IAMBIZE
I*am"bize, v. t. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To satirize in iambics; to lampoon. [R.]

IAMBUS
I*am"bus, n.; pl. L. Iambi, E. Iambuses. Etym: [L. iambus, Gr. jacere
to throw. Cf. Jet a shooting forth.] (Pros.)

Defn: A foot consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one,
as in âmans, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented
one, as invent; an iambic. See the Couplet under Iambic, n.

IANTHINA
I*an"thi*na, n.; pl. L. Ianthinæ, E. Ianthinas. Etym: [NL., fr. L.
ianthinus violet-blue, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any gastropod of the genus Ianthina, of which various species
are found living in mid ocean; -- called also purple shell, and
violet snail. [Written also janthina.]

Note: It floats at the surface by means of a raft, which it
constructs by forming and uniting together air bubbles of hardened
mucus. The Tyrian purple of the ancients was obtained in part from
mollusks of this genus.

IATRALIPTIC
I*a`tra*lip"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. iatraliptique.]

Defn: Treating diseases by anointing and friction; as, the
iatraliptic method. [Written also iatroleptic.]

IATRIC; IATRICAL
I*at"ric, I*at"ric*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to medicine, or to medical men.

IATROCHEMICAL
I*a`tro*chem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to iatrochemistry, or to the iatrochemists.

IATROCHEMIST
I*a`tro*chem"ist, n. Etym: [Gr. chemist.]

Defn: A physician who explained or treated diseases upon chemical
principles; one who practiced iatrochemistry.

IATROCHEMISTRY
I*a`tro*chem"is*try, n.

Defn: Chemistry applied to, or used in, medicine; -- used especially
with reference to the doctrines in the school of physicians in
Flanders, in the 17th century, who held that health depends upon the
proper chemical relations of the fluids of the body, and who
endeavored to explain the conditions of health or disease by chemical
principles.

IATROMATHEMATICAL
I*a`tro*math`e*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to iatromathematicians or their doctrine.

IATROMATHEMATICIAN
I*a`tro*math`e*ma*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Gr. mathematician.] (Hist. Med.)

Defn: One of a school of physicians in Italy, about the middle of the
17th century, who tried to apply the laws of mechanics and
mathematics to the human body, and hence were eager student of
anatomy; -- opposed to the iatrochemists.

IBERIAN
I*be"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Iberia.

IBEX
I"bex, n.; pl. E. Ibexes, L. Ibices. Etym: [L., a kind of goat, the
chamois.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of wild goats having very large,
recurved horns, transversely ridged in front; -- called also
steinbok.

Note: The Alpine ibex (Capra ibex) is the best known. The Spanish, or
Pyrenean, ibex (C. Hispanica) has smoother and more spreading horns.

IBIDEM
I*bi"dem, adv. Etym: [L.]

Defn: In the same place; -- abbreviated ibid. or ib.

IBIS
I"bis, n. Etym: [L. ibis, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Ibis and several allied genera, of the
family Ibidæ, inhabiting both the Old World and the New. Numerous
species are known. They are large, wading birds, having a long,
curved beak, and feed largely on reptiles.

Note: The sacred ibis of the ancient Egyptians (Ibis Æthiopica) has
the head and neck black, without feathers. The plumage of the body
and wings is white, except the tertiaries, which are lengthened and
form a dark purple plume. In ancient times this bird was extensively
domesticated in Egypt, but it is now seldom seen so far north. The
glossy ibis (Plegadis autumnalis), which is widely distributed both
in the Old World and the New, has the head and neck feathered, except
between the eyes and bill; the scarlet ibis (Guara rubra) and the
white ibis (G. alba) inhabit the West Indies and South America, and
are rarely found in the United States. The wood ibis (Tantalus
loculator) of America belongs to the Stork family (Ciconidæ). See
Wood ibis.

-IBLE
-i*ble

Defn: . See -able.

IBSENISM
Ib"sen*ism, n.

Defn: The dramatic practice or purpose characteristic of the writings
of Henrik Ibsen (1828-1906), Norwegian poet and dramatist, whose
best-known plays deal with conventional hypocrisies, the story in
each play thus developing a definite moral problem.

-IC
-ic. Etym: [L. -icus, Gr. ique.]

1. A suffix signifying, in general, relating to, or characteristic
of; as, historic, hygienic, telegraphic, etc.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A suffix, denoting that the element indicated enters into
certain compounds with its highest valence, or with a valence
relatively higher than in compounds where the name of the element
ends in -ous; as, ferric, sulphuric. It is also used in the general
sense of pertaining to; as, hydric, sodic, calcic.

ICARIAN
I*ca"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Icarius, Gr.

Defn: Soaring too high for safety, like Icarus; adventurous in
flight.

ICE
Ice, n. Etym: [OE. is, iis, AS. is; aksin to D. ijs, G. eis, OHG. is,
Icel. iss, Sw. is, Dan. iis, and perh. to E. iron.]

1. Water or other fluid frozen or reduced to the solid state by cold;
frozen water. It is a white or transparent colorless substance,
crystalline, brittle, and viscoidal. Its specific gravity (0.92, that
of water at 4° C. being 1.0) being less than that of water, ice
floats.

Note: Water freezes at 32° F. or 0° Cent., and ice melts at the same
temperature. Ice owes its cooling properties to the large amount of
heat required to melt it.

2. Concreted sugar. Johnson.

3. Water, cream, custard, etc., sweetened, flavored, and artificially
frozen.

4. Any substance having the appearance of ice; as, camphor ice.
Anchor ice, ice which sometimes forms about stones and other objects
at the bottom of running or other water, and is thus attached or
anchored to the ground.
 -- Bay ice, ice formed in bays, fiords, etc., often in extensive
fields which drift out to sea.
 -- Ground ice, anchor ice.
 -- Ice age (Geol.), the glacial epoch or period. See under Glacial.
 -- Ice anchor (Naut.), a grapnel for mooring a vessel to a field of
ice. Kane.
 -- Ice blink Etym: [Dan. iisblink], a streak of whiteness of the
horizon, caused by the reflection of light from ice not yet in sight.
 -- Ice boat. (a) A boat fitted with skates or runners, and propelled
on ice by sails; an ice yacht. (b) A strong steamboat for breaking a
channel through ice.
 -- Ice box or chest, a box for holding ice; a box in which things
are kept cool by means of ice; a refrigerator.
 -- Ice brook, a brook or stream as cold as ice. [Poetic] Shak.
 -- Ice cream Etym: [for iced cream], cream, milk, or custard,
sweetened, flavored, and frozen.
 -- Ice field, an extensive sheet of ice.
 -- Ice float, Ice floe, a sheet of floating ice similar to an ice
field, but smaller.
 -- Ice foot, shore ice in Arctic regions; an ice belt. Kane.
 -- Ice house, a close-covered pit or building for storing ice.
 -- Ice machine (Physics), a machine for making ice artificially, as
by the production of a low temperature through the sudden expansion
of a gas or vapor, or the rapid evaporation of a volatile liquid.
 -- Ice master. See Ice pilot (below).
 -- Ice pack, an irregular mass of broken and drifting ice.
 -- Ice paper, a transparent film of gelatin for copying or
reproducing; papier glacé.
 -- Ice petrel (Zoöl.), a shearwater (Puffinus gelidus) of the
Antarctic seas, abundant among floating ice.
 -- Ice pick, a sharp instrument for breaking ice into small pieces.
 -- Ice pilot, a pilot who has charge of a vessel where the course is
obstructed by ice, as in polar seas; -- called also ice master.
 -- Ice pitcher, a pitcher adapted for ice water.
 -- Ice plow, a large tool for grooving and cutting ice. ice
sculpture = a sculpture carved from a block of ice, often used for
decorating restaurants. ice show an entertainment consisting of ice
skaters performing figure-skating on a sheet of ice, usually in an
arena, often accompanied by music.
 -- Ice sludge, bay ice broken small by the wind or waves; sludge.
 -- Ice spar (Min.), a variety of feldspar, the crystals of which are
very clear like ice; rhyacolite.
 -- Ice tongs, large iron nippers for handling ice.
 -- Ice water. (a) Water cooled by ice. (b) Water formed by the
melting of ice.
 -- Ice yacht. See Ice boat (above).
 -- To break the ice. See under Break.
 -- Water ice, a confection consisting of water sweetened, flavored,
and frozen.

ICE
Ice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Iced; p. pr. & vb. n. Icing.]

1. To cover with ice; to convert into ice, or into something
resembling ice.

2. To cover with icing, or frosting made of sugar and milk or white
of egg; to frost, as cakes, tarts, etc.

3. To chill or cool, as with ice; to freeze.

ICEBERG
Ice"berg`, n. Etym: [Prob. of Scand. origin; cf. Dan. iisbierg, Sw.
isberg, properly, a mountain of ice. See Ice, and Berg.]

Defn: A large mass of ice, generally floating in the ocean.

Note: Icebergs are large detached portions of glaciers, which in cold
regions often project into the sea.

ICEBIRD
Ice"bird`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Arctic sea bird, as the Arctic fulmar.

ICEBOUND
Ice"bound`, a.

Defn: Totally surrounded with ice, so as to be incapable of
advancing; as, an icebound vessel; also, surrounded by or fringed
with ice so as to hinder easy access; as, an icebound coast.

ICE-BUILT
Ice"-built`, a.

1. Composed of ice.

2. Loaded with ice. "Ice-built mountains." Gray.

ICED
Iced, a.

1. Covered with ice; chilled with ice; as, iced water.

2. Covered with something resembling ice, as sugar icing; frosted;
as, iced cake. Iced cream. Same as Ice cream, under Ice.

ICEFALL
Ice"fall`, n.

Defn: A frozen waterfall, or mass of ice resembling a frozen
waterfall. Coleridge.

ICELANDER
Ice"land*er, n.

Defn: A native, or one of the Scandinavian people, of Iceland.

ICELANDIC
Ice*lan"dic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Iceland; relating to, or resembling, the
Icelanders.

ICELANDIC
Ice*lan"dic, n.

Defn: The language of the Icelanders. It is one of the Scandinavian
group, and is more nearly allied to the Old Norse than any other
language now spoken.

ICELAND MOSS
Ice"land moss`. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of lichen (Cetraria Icelandica) found from the Arctic
regions to the North Temperate zone. It furnishes a nutritious jelly
and other forms of food, and is used in pulmonary complaints as a
demulcent.

ICELAND SPAR
Ice"land spar`. (Min.)

Defn: A transparent variety of calcite, the best of which is obtained
in Iceland. It is used for the prisms of the polariscope, because of
its strong double refraction. Cf. Calcite.

ICEMAN
Ice"man, n.; pl. Icemen (.

1. A man who is skilled in traveling upon ice, as among glaciers.

2. One who deals in ice; one who retails or delivers ice.

ICE PLANT
Ice" plant`. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum), sprinkled with
pellucid, watery vesicles, which glisten like ice. It is native along
the Mediterranean, in the Canaries, and in South Africa. Its juice is
said to be demulcent and diuretic; its ashes are used in Spain in
making glass. Ice-skater = one who skates on ice wearing an ice
skate; esp. an athlete who performs athletic or artistic movements on
a sheet of ice, wearing ice skates; including speed skater and figure
skater

ICEQUAKE
Ice"quake`, n.

Defn: The crash or concussion attending the breaking up of masses of
ice, -- often due to contraction from extreme cold.

ICH
Ich, pron.

Defn: I. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: In the Southern dialect of Early English this is the regular
form. Cf. Ik.

ICHNEUMON
Ich*neu"mon, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any carnivorous mammal of the genus Herpestes, and family
Viverridæ. Numerous species are found in Asia and Africa. The
Egyptian species(H. ichneumon), which ranges to Spain and Palestine,
is noted for destroying the eggs and young of the crocodile as well
as various snakes and lizards, and hence was considered sacred by the
ancient Egyptians. The common species of India (H. griseus), known as
the mongoose, has similar habits and is often domesticated. It is
noted for killing the cobra.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any hymenopterous insect of the family Ichneumonidæ, of which
several thousand species are known, belonging to numerous genera.

Note: The female deposits her eggs upon, or in, the bodies of other
insects, such as caterpillars, plant lice, etc. The larva lives upon
the internal tissues of the insect in which it is parasitic, and
finally kills it. Hence, many of the species are beneficial to
agriculture by destroying noxious insects. Ichneumon fly. See
Ichneumon, 2.

ICHNEUMONIDAN
Ich`neu*mon"i*dan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ichneumonidæ, or ichneumon flies.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Ichneumonidæ.

ICHNEUMONIDES
Ich`neu*mon"i*des, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Ichneumon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ichneumon flies.

ICHNITE
Ich"nite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A fossil footprint; as, the ichnites in the Triassic sandstone.
Page.

ICHNOGRAPHIC; ICHNOGRAPHICAL
Ich`no*graph"ic, Ich`no*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
ichonographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to ichonography; describing a ground plot.

ICHNOGRAPHY
Ich*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. ichonographie.] (Drawing)

Defn: A horizontal section of a building or other object, showing its
true dimensions according to a geometric scale; a ground plan; a map;
also, the art of making such plans.

ICHNOLITE
Ich"no*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.]

Defn: A fossil footprint; an ichnite.

ICHNOLITHOLOGY
Ich`no*li*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -lith + -logy.]

Defn: Same as Ichnology. Hitchcock.

ICHNOLOGICAL
Ich`no*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ichnology.

ICHNOLOGY
Ich*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Geol.)

Defn: The branch of science which treats of fossil footprints.

ICHNOSCOPY
Ich*nos"co*py, n. Etym: [Gr. -scopy.]

Defn: The search for the traces of anything. [R.]

ICHOR
I"chor, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ichor.]

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: An ethereal fluid that supplied the place of blood in the veins
of the gods.

2. A thin, acrid, watery discharge from an ulcer, wound, etc.

ICHORHAEMIA
I`chor*hæ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Infection of the blood with ichorous or putrid substances.

ICHOROUS
I"chor*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ichoreux.]

Defn: Of or like ichor; thin; watery; serous; sanious.

ICHTHIDIN
Ich"thi*din, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance from the egg yolk of osseous fishes.

ICHTHIN
Ich"thin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance resembling vitellin, present in the egg
yolk of cartilaginous fishes.

ICHTHULIN
Ich"thu*lin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance from the yolk of salmon's egg.

ICHTHUS
Ich"thus, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: In early Christian and eccesiastical art, an emblematic fish,
or the Greek word for fish, which combined the initials of the Greek
words

ICHTHYIC
Ich"thy*ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, fishes.

ICHTHYOCOL; ICHTHYOCOLLA
Ich"thy*o*col, Ich`thy*o*col"la, n. Etym: [L. ichthyocolla, Gr.
ichthyocolle.]

Defn: Fish glue; isinglass; a glue prepared from the sounds of
certain fishes.

ICHTHYOCOPROLITE
Ich`thy*o*cop"ro*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. coprolite.] (Geol.)

Defn: Fossil dung of fishes.

ICHTHYODORULITE
Ich`thy*o*dor"u*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the spiny plates foundon the back and tail of certain
skates.

ICHTHYOGRAPHY
Ich`thy*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. graphy: cf. F. ichthyographie.]

Defn: A treatise on fishes.

ICHTHYOID; ICHTHYOIDAL
Ich"thy*oid, Ich`thy*oid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Somewhat like a fish; having some of the characteristics of
fishes; -- said of some amphibians.

ICHTHYOL
Ich"thy*ol, n. [Gr. , , a fish + (prob.) L. oleum oil; but cf.
Ichthyolite.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oily substance prepared by the dry distillation of a
bituminous mineral containing fossil fishes. It is used in medicine
as a remedy in some forms of skin diseases.

ICHTHYOLATRY
Ich`thy*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Worship of fishes, or of fish-shaped idols. Layard.

ICHTHYOLITE
Ich"thy*o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil fish, or fragment of a fish.

ICHTHYOLOGIC; ICHTHYOLOGICAL
Ich`thy*o*log"ic, Ich`thy*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
ichthyologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to ichthyology.

ICHTHYOLOGIST
Ich`thy*ol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ichthyologiste.]

Defn: One versed in, or who studies, ichthyology.

ICHTHYOLOGY
Ich`thy*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. ichthyologie.]

Defn: The natural history of fishes; that branch of zoölogy which
relates to fishes, including their structure, classification, and
habits.

ICHTHYOMANCY
Ich"thy*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. ichthyomancie.]

Defn: Divination by the heads or the entrails of fishes.

ICHTHYOMORPHA
Ich`thy*o*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Urodela.

ICHTHYOMORPHIC; ICHTHYOMORPHOUS
Ich`thy*o*mor"phic, Ich`thy*o*mor"phous, a. Etym: [See
Ichthyomorpha.]

Defn: Fish-shaped; as, the ichthyomorphic idols of ancient Assyria.

ICHTHYOPHAGIST
Ich`thy*oph"a*gist, n. Etym: [See Ichthyophagous.]

Defn: One who eats, or subsists on, fish.

ICHTHYOPHAGOUS
Ich`thy*oph"a*gous, a. Etym: [L. ichthyophagus, Gr.

Defn: Eating, or subsisting on, fish.

ICHTHYOPHAGY
Ich`thy*oph"a*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. ichthyophagie.]

Defn: The practice of eating, or living upon, fish.

ICHTHYOPHTHALMITE
Ich`thy*oph*thal"mite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: See Apophyllite. [R.]

ICHTHYOPHTHIRA
Ich`thy*oph*thi"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of copepod crustaceans, including numerous species
parasitic on fishes.

ICHTHYOPSIDA
Ich`thy*op"si*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A grand division of the Vertebrata, including the Amphibia and
Fishes.

ICHTHYOPTERYGIA
Ich`thy*op`te*ryg"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Ichthyopterygium.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: See Ichthyosauria.

ICHTHYOPTERYGIUM
Ich`thy*op`te*ryg"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The typical limb, or lateral fin, of fishes.

ICHTHYORNIS
Ich`thy*or"nis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of toothed birds found in the American
Cretaceous formation. It is remarkable for having biconcave vertebræ,
and sharp, conical teeth set in sockets. Its wings were well
developed. It is the type of the order Odontotormæ.

ICHTHYOSAUR
Ich"thy*o*saur, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ichthyosaure.] (Paleon.)

Defn: One of the Ichthyosaura.

ICHTHYOSAURIA
Ich`thy*o*sau"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Ichthyosaurus.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct order of marine reptiles, including Ichthyosaurus
and allied forms; -- called also Ichthyopterygia. They have not been
found later than the Cretaceous period.

ICHTHYOSAURIAN
Ich`thy*o*sau"ri*an, a. (Paleon.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ichthyosauria.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Ichthyosauria.

ICHTHYOSAURUS
Ich`thy*o*sau"rus, n.; pl. Ichthyosauri. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
'ichqy`s, -y`os, a fish + say^ros a lizard.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of marine reptiles; -- so named from their
short, biconcave vertebræ, resembling those of fishes. Several
species, varying in length from ten to thirty feet, are known from
the Liassic, Oölitic, and Cretaceous formations.

ICHTHYOSIS
Ich`thy*o"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A disease in which the skin is thick, rough, and scaly; --
called also fishskin.
 -- Ich`thy*ot"ic, a.

ICHTHYOTOMIST
Ich`thy*ot"o*mist, n.

Defn: One skilled in ichthyotomy.

ICHTHYOTOMY
Ich`thy*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The anatomy or dissection of fishes. [R.]

ICHTHYS
Ich"thys, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: Same as Ichthus.

ICICLE
I"ci*cle, n. Etym: [OE. isikel, AS. isgicel; is ice + gicel icicle;
akin to Icel. jökull; cf. Gael. eigh ice, Ir. aigh.]

Defn: A pendent, and usually conical, mass of ice, formed by freezing
of dripping water; as, the icicles on the eaves of a house.

ICICLED
I"ci*cled, a.

Defn: Having icicles attached.

ICILY
I"ci*ly, adv.

Defn: In an icy manner; coldly.
Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null, Dead perfection,
no more. Tennyson.

ICINESS
I"ci*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being icy or very cold; frigidity.

ICING
I"cing, n.

Defn: A coating or covering resembling ice, as of sugar and milk or
white of egg; frosting.

ICKLE
Ic"kle, n. Etym: [OE. ikil. See Icicle.]

Defn: An icicle. [Prov. Eng.]

ICON
I"con, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: An image or representation; a portrait or pretended portrait.
Netherlands whose names and icons are published. Hakewill.

ICONICAL
I*con"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or consisting of, images, pictures, or
representations of any kind.

ICONISM
I"con*ism, n. Etym: [L. iconismus, Gr. iconisme.]

Defn: The formation of a figure, representation, or semblance; a
delineation or description.
Some kind of apish imitations, counterfeit iconisms. Cudworth.

ICONIZE
I"con*ize, v. t. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To form an image or likeness of. [R.] Cudworth.

ICONOCLASM
I*con"o*clasm, n. Etym: [Cf. F. iconoclasme. See Iconoclast.]

Defn: The doctrine or practice of the iconoclasts; image breaking.

ICONOCLAST
I*con"o*clast, n. Etym: [Gr. iconoclaste.]

1. A breaker or destroyer of images or idols; a determined enemy of
idol worship.

2. One who exposes or destroys impositions or shams; one who attacks
cherished beliefs; a radical.

ICONOCLASTIC
I*con`o*clas"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the iconoclasts, or to image breaking.
Milman.

ICONODULE; ICONODULIST
I*con"o*dule, I*con"o*du`list, n. Etym: [Gr. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who serves images; -- opposed to an iconoclast. Schaff-
Herzog Encyc.

ICONOGRAPH
I*con"o*graph, n. [See Iconography.]

Defn: An engraving or other picture or illustration for a book.

ICONOGRAPHER
I`co*nog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: A maker of images. Fairholt.

ICONOGRAPHIC
I*con`o*graph"ic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to iconography.

2. Representing by means of pictures or diagrams; as, an icongraphic
encyclopædia.

ICONOGRAPHY
I`co*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. iconographie.]

1. The art or representation by pictures or images; the description
or study of portraiture or representation, as of persons; as, the
iconography of the ancients.

2. The study of representative art in general. Christian iconography,
the study of the representations in art of the Deity, the persons of
the Trinity, angels, saints, virtues, vices, etc.

ICONOLATER
I`co*nol"a*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. iconolâtre.]

Defn: One who worships images.

ICONOLATRY
I`co*nol"a*try, n. Etym: [See Iconolater.]

Defn: The worship of images as symbols; -- distinguished from
idolatry, the worship of images themselves.

ICONOLOGY
I`co*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. iconologie.]

Defn: The discussion or description of portraiture or of
representative images. Cf. Iconography.

ICONOMACHY
I`co*nom"a*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Hostility to images as objects of worship. [R.]

ICONOMANIA
I`co*no*ma"ni*a, n. [NL. See Icon, and Mania.]

Defn: A mania or infatuation for icons, whether as objects of
devotion, bric-a-brac, or curios.

ICONOMICAL
I`co*nom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Opposed to pictures or images as objects of worship. [R.] Sir
T. Browne.

ICONOPHILIST
I`co*noph"i*list, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A student, or lover of the study, of iconography.

ICOSAHEDRAL
I`co*sa*he"dral, a. Etym: [See Icosahedron.] (Geom.)

Defn: Having twenty equal sides or faces.

ICOSAHEDRON
I`co*sa*he"dron, n. Etym: [Gr. (Geom.)

Defn: A solid bounded by twenty sides or faces. Regular icosahedron,
one of the five regular polyhedrons, bounded by twenty equilateral
triangules. Five triangules meet to form each solid angle of the
polyhedron.

ICOSANDRIA
I`co*san"dri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. icosandrie.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants, having twenty or more stamens
inserted in the calyx.

ICOSANDRIAN; ICOSANDROUS
I`co*san"dri*an, I`co*san"drous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to the class Icosandria; having twenty or more
stamens inserted in the calyx.

ICOSITETRAHEDRON
I`co*si*tet`ra*he"dron, n. Etym: [Gr. (Crystallog.)

Defn: A twenty-four-sided solid; a tetragonal trisoctahedron or
trapezohedron.

-ICS
-ics

Defn: . A suffix used in forming the names of certain sciences,
systems, etc., as acoustics, mathematics, dynamics, statistics,
politics, athletics.

Note: The names sciences ending in ics, as mathematics, mechanics,
metaphysics, optics, etc., are, with respect to their form, nouns in
the plural number. The plural form was probably introduced to mark
the complex nature of such sciences; and it may have been in
imitation of the use of the Greek plurals ics were construed with a
verb or a pronoun in the plural; but it is now generally considered
preferable to treat them as singular. In Greman we have die
Mathematik, die Mechanik, etc., and in French la metaphysique, la
optique, etc., corresponding to our mathematics, mechanics,
metaphysics, optics, etc.
Mathematics have for their object the consideration of whatever is
capable of being numbered or measured. John Davidson.
The citations subjoined will serve as examples of the best present
usage.
Ethics is the sciences of the laws which govern our actions as moral
agents. Sir W. Hamilton.
All parts of knowledge have their origin in metaphysics, and finally,
perhaps, revolve into it. De Quincey.
Mechanics, like pure mathematics, may be geometrical, or may be
analytical; that is, it may treat space either by a direct
consideration of its properties, or by a symbolical representation.
Whewell.

ICTERIC
Ic*ter"ic, n.

Defn: A remedy for the jaundice.

ICTERIC; ICTERICAL
Ic*ter"ic, Ic*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. ictericus, Gr. ictérique.]

1. Pertaining to, or affected with, jaundice.

2. Good against the jaundice. Johnson.

ICTERITIOUS; ICTERITOUS
Ic`ter*i"tious, Ic*ter"i*tous, a.

Defn: Yellow; of the color of the skin when it is affected by the
jaundice.

ICTEROID
Ic"ter*oid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Of a tint resembling that produced by jaundice; yellow; as, an
icteroid tint or complexion.

ICTERUS
Ic"te*rus, n. Etym: [NL. See Icteric, a.] (Med.)

Defn: The jaundice.

ICTIC
Ic"tic, a. Etym: [L. ictus blow.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or caused by, a blow; sudden; abrupt. [R.] H.
Bushnell.

ICTUS
Ic"tus, n. Etym: [L., fr. icere, ictum, to strike.]

1. (Pros.)

Defn: The stress of voice laid upon accented syllable of a word. Cf.
Arsis.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A stroke or blow, as in a sunstroke, the sting of an insect,
pulsation of an artery, etc.

ICY
I"cy, a. [Compar. Icier; superl. Iciest.] Etym: [AS. isig. See Ice.]

1. Pertaining to, resembling, or abounding in, ice; cold; frosty.
"Icy chains." Shak. "Icy region." Boyle. "Icy seas." Pope.

2. Characterized by coldness, as of manner, influence, etc.;
chilling; frigid; cold.
Icy was the deportment with which Philip received these
demonstrations of affection. Motley.

ICY-PEARLED
I"cy-pearl`ed, a.

Defn: Spangled with ice.
Mounting up in icy-pearled car. Milton.

I'D
I'd

Defn: . A contraction from I would or I had.

ID
Id, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Leuciscus idus or Idus
idus) of Europe. A domesticated variety, colored like the goldfish,
is called orfe in Germany.

IDALIAN
I*da"li*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Idalium, a mountain city in Cyprus, or to
Venus, to whom it was sacred. "Idalian Aphrodité." Tennyson.

IDE
Ide, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Id.

-IDE
-ide. (Chem.)

Defn: A suffix used to denote: (a) The nonmetallic, or negative,
element or radical in a binary compound; as, oxide, sulphide,
chloride. (b) A compound which is an anhydride; as, glycolide,
phthalide. (c) Any one of a series of derivatives; as, indogenide,
glucoside, etc.

IDEA
I*de"a, n.; pl. Ideas. Etym: [L. idea, Gr. wit: cf. F. idée. See
Wit.]

1. The transcript, image, or picture of a visible object, that is
formed by the mind; also, a similar image of any object whatever,
whether sensible or spiritual.
Her sweet idea wandered through his thoughts. Fairfax.
Being the right idea of your father Both in your form and nobleness
of mind. Shak.
This representation or likeness of the object being transmitted from
thence [the senses] to the imagination, and lodged there for the view
and observation of the pure intellect, is aptly and properly called
its idea. P. Browne.

2. A general notion, or a conception formed by generalization.
Alice had not the slightest idea what latitude was. L. Caroll.

3. Hence: Any object apprehended, conceived, or thought of, by the
mind; a notion, conception, or thought; the real object that is
conceived or thought of.
Whatsoever the mind perceives in itself, or as the immediate object
of perception, thought, or undersanding, that I call idea. Locke.

4. A belief, option, or doctrine; a characteristic or controlling
principle; as, an essential idea; the idea of development.
That fellow seems to me to possess but one idea, and that is a wrong
one. Johnson.
What is now "idea" for us How infinite the fall of this word, since
the time where Milton sang of the Creator contemplating his newly-
created world, -"how it showed . . . Answering his great idea," -to
its present use, when this person "has an idea that the train has
started," and the other "had no idea that the dinner would be so
bad!" Trench.

5. A plan or purpose of action; intention; design.
I shortly afterwards set off for that capital, with an idea of
undertaking while there the translation of the work. W. Irving.

6. A rational conception; the complete conception of an object when
thought of in all its essential elements or constituents; the
necessary metaphysical or constituent attributes and relations, when
conceived in the abstract.

7. A fiction object or picture created by the imagination; the same
when proposed as a pattern to be copied, or a standard to be reached;
one of the archetypes or patterns of created things, conceived by the
Platonists to have excited objectively from eternity in the mind of
the Deity.
Thence to behold this new-created world, The addition of his empire,
how it showed In prospect from his throne, how good, how fair,
Answering his great idea. Milton.

Note: "In England, Locke may be said to have been the first who
naturalized the term in its Cartesian universality. When, in common
language, employed by Milton and Dryden, after Descartes, as before
him by Sidney, Spenser, Shakespeare, Hooker, etc., the meaning is
Platonic." Sir W. Hamilton. Abstract idea, Association of ideas, etc.
See under Abstract, Association, etc.

Syn.
 -- Notion; conception; thought; sentiment; fancy; image; perception;
impression; opinion; belief; observation; judgment; consideration;
view; design; intention; purpose; plan; model; pattern. There is
scarcely any other word which is subjected to such abusive treatment
as is the word idea, in the very general and indiscriminative way in
which it is employed, as it is used variously to signify almost any
act, state, or content of thought.

IDEAL
I*de"al, a. Etym: [L. idealis: cf. F. idéal.]

1. Existing in idea or thought; conceptional; intellectual; mental;
as, ideal knowledge.

2. Reaching an imaginary standard of excellence; fit for a model;
faultless; as, ideal beauty. Byron.
There will always be a wide interval between practical and ideal
excellence. Rambler.

3. Existing in fancy or imagination only; visionary; unreal.
"Planning ideal common wealth." Southey.

4. Teaching the doctrine of idealism; as, the ideal theory or
philosophy.

5. (Math.)

Defn: Imaginary.

Syn.
 -- Intellectual; mental; visionary; fanciful; imaginary; unreal;
impracticable; utopian.

IDEAL
I*de"al, n.

Defn: A mental conception regarded as a standard of perfection; a
model of excellence, beauty, etc.
The ideal is to be attained by selecting and assembling in one whole
the beauties and perfections which are usually seen in different
individuals, excluding everything defective or unseemly, so as to
form a type or model of the species. Thus, the Apollo Belvedere is
the ideal of the beauty and proportion of the human frame. Fleming.
Beau ideal. See Beau ideal.

IDEALESS
I*de"a*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of an idea.

IDEALISM
I*de"al*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. idéalisme.]

1. The quality or state of being ideal.

2. Conception of the ideal; imagery.

3. (Philos.)

Defn: The system or theory that denies the existence of material
bodies, and teaches that we have no rational grounds to believe in
the reality of anything but ideas and their relations.

IDEALIST
I*de"al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. idéaliste.]

1. One who idealizes; one who forms picturesque fancies; one given to
romantic expectations.

2. One who holds the doctrine of idealism.

IDEALISTIC
I*de`al*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to idealists or their theories.

IDEALITY
I`de*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Idealities (.

1. The quality or state of being ideal.

2. The capacity to form ideals of beauty or perfection.

3. (Phren.)

Defn: The conceptive faculty.

IDEALIZATION
I*de`al*i*za"tion, n.

1. The act or process of idealizing.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The representation of natural objects, scenes, etc., in such a
way as to show their most important characteristics; the study of the
ideal.

IDEALIZE
I*de"al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Idealized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Idealizing.]

1. To make ideal; to give an ideal form or value to; to attribute
ideal characteristics and excellences to; as, to idealize real life.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: To treat in an ideal manner. See Idealization, 2.

IDEALIZE
I*de"al*ize, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. idéaliser.]

Defn: To form ideals.

IDEALIZER
I*de"al*i`zer, n.

Defn: An idealist.

IDEALLY
I*de"al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ideal manner; by means of ideals; mentally.

IDEALOGIC
I*de`a*log"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an idealogue, or to idealization.

IDEALOGUE
I*de"a*logue, n. Etym: [Idea + -logue, as in theologue: cf. F.
idéologue.]

Defn: One given to fanciful ideas or theories; a theorist; a
spectator. [R.] Mrs. Browning.

IDEAT; IDEATE
I*de"at, I*de"ate, n. Etym: [LL. ideatum. See Idea.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The actual existence supposed to correspond with an idea; the
correlate in real existence to the idea as a thought or existence.

IDEATE
I*de"ate, v. t.

1. To form in idea; to fancy. [R.]
The ideated man . . . as he stood in the intellect of God. Sir T.
Browne.

2. To apprehend in thought so as to fix and hold in the mind; to
memorize. [R.]

IDEATION
I`de*a"tion, n.

Defn: The faculty or capacity of the mind for forming ideas; the
exercise of this capacity; the act of the mind by which objects of
sense are apprehended and retained as objects of thought.
The whole mass of residua which have been accumulated . . . all enter
now into the process of ideation. J. D. Morell.

IDEATIONAL
I`de*a"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, ideation.
Certain sensational or ideational stimuli. Blackw. Mag.

IDEM
I"dem, pron. or adj. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The same; the same as above; -- often abbreviated id.

IDENTIC
I*den"tic, a.

Defn: Identical. [Obs.] Hudibras.

IDENTICAL
I*den"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. identique. See Identity.]

1. The same; the selfsame; the very same; not different; as, the
identical person or thing.
I can not remember a thing that happened a year ago, without a
conviction . . . that I, the same identical person who now remember
that event, did then exist. Reid.

2. Uttering sameness or the same truth; expressing in the predicate
what is given, or obviously implied, in the subject; tautological.
When you say body is solid, I say that you make an identical
proposition, because it is impossible to have the idea of body
without that of solidity. Fleming.
Identical equation (Alg.), an equation which is true for all values
of the algebraic symbols which enter into it.

IDENTICALLY
I*den"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an identical manner; with respect to identity. "Identically
the same." Bp. Warburton. "Identically different." Ross.

IDENTICALNESS
I*den"tic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being identical; sameness.

IDENTIFIABLE
I*den"ti*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being identified.

IDENTIFICATION
I*den`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. identification.]

Defn: The act of identifying, or proving to be the same; also, the
state of being identified.

IDENTIFY
I*den"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Identified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Identifying.] Etym: [Cf. F. identifier. See Identity, and -fy.]

1. To make to be the same; to unite or combine in such a manner as to
make one; to treat as being one or having the same purpose or effect;
to consider as the same in any relation.
Every precaution is taken to identify the interests of the people and
of the rulers. D. Ramsay.
Let us identify, let us incorporate ourselves with the people. Burke.

2. To establish the identity of; to prove to be the same with
something described, claimed, or asserted; as, to identify stolen
property.

IDENTIFY
I*den"ti*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become the same; to coalesce in interest, purpose, use,
effect, etc. [Obs. or R.]
An enlightened self-interest, which, when well understood, they tell
us will identify with an interest more enlarged and public. Burke.

IDENTISM
I*den"tism, n. Etym: [See Identity.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The doctrine taught by Schelling, that matter and mind, and
subject and object, are identical in the Absolute; -- called also the
system or doctrine of identity.

IDENTITY
I*den"ti*ty, n.; pl. Identities. Etym: [F. identité, LL. identitas,
fr. L. idem the same, from the root of is he, that; cf. Skr. idam
this. Cf. Item.]

1. The state or quality of being identical, or the same; sameness.
Identity is a relation between our cognitions of a thing, not between
things themselves. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. The condition of being the same with something described or
asserted, or of possessing a character claimed; as, to establish the
identity of stolen goods.

3. (Math.)

Defn: An identical equation.

IDEO-
I"de*o-

Defn: . A combining form from the Gr. idea.

IDEOGENICAL
I`de*o*gen"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to ideology.

IDEOGENY
I`de*og"e*ny, n. Etym: [Ideo- + -geny, from the same root as Gr.
idéogénie.]

Defn: The science which treats of the origin of ideas.

IDEOGRAM
I*de"o*gram, n. Etym: [Ideo- + -gram; cf. F. idéograme.]

1. An original, pictorial element of writing; a kind of hieroglyph
expressing no sound, but only an idea.
Ideograms may be defined to be pictures intended to represent either
things or thoughts. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).
You might even have a history without language written or spoken, by
means of ideograms and gesture. J. Peile.

2. A symbol used for convenience, or for abbreviation; as, 1, 2, 3,
+, -,

3. A phonetic symbol; a letter.

IDEOGRAPH
I*de"o*graph, n.

Defn: Same as Ideogram.

IDEOGRAPHIC; IDEOGRAPHICAL
I`de*o*graph"ic, I`de*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. idéographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an ideogram; representing ideas by symbols,
independently of sounds; as, 9 represents not the word "nine," but
the idea of the number itself.
 -- I`de*o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

IDEOGRAPHICS
I`de*o*graph"ics, n.

Defn: The system of writing in ideographic characters; also, anything
so written.

IDEOGRAPHY
I`de*og"ra*phy, n.

Defn: The representation of ideas independently of sounds, or in an
ideographic manner, as sometimes is done in shorthand writing, etc.

IDEOLOGICAL
I`de*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. idéologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to ideology.

IDEOLOGIST
I`de*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who treats of ideas; one who theorizes or idealizes; one
versed in the science of ideas, or who advocates the doctrines of
ideology.

IDEOLOGY
I`de*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Ideo- + -logy: cf. F. idéologie.]

1. The science of ideas. Stewart.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: A theory of the origin of ideas which derives them exclusively
from sensation.

Note: By a double blunder in philosophy and Greek, idéologie . . .
has in France become the name peculiarly distinctive of that
philosophy of mind which exclusively derives our knowledge from
sensation. Sir W. Hamilton.

IDEO-MOTION
I`de*o-mo"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: An ideo-motor movement.

IDEO-MOTOR
I`de*o-mo"tor, a. Etym: [Ideo- + motor.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Applied to those actions, or muscular movements, which are
automatic expressions of dominant ideas, rather than the result of
distinct volitional efforts, as the act of expressing the thoughts in
speech, or in writing, while the mind is occupied in the composition
of the sentence. Carpenter.

IDES
Ides, n. pl. Etym: [L. idus: cf. F. ides.] (Anc. Rom. Calendar)

Defn: The fifteenth day of March, May, July, and October, and the
thirteenth day of the other months.
The ides of March remember. Shak.

Note: Eight days in each month often pass by this name, but only one
strictly receives it, the others being called respectively the day
before the ides, and so on, backward, to the eightth from the ides.

IDIO-
Id"i*o-

Defn: . A combining form from the Greek private, personal, peculiar,
distinct.

IDIOBLAST
Id"i*o*blast, n. Etym: [Ideo- + -blast.] (Bot.)

Defn: An individual cell, differing greatly from its neighbours in
regard to size, structure, or contents.

IDIOCRASIS
Id`i*o*cra"sis, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Idiocracy.

IDIOCRASY
Id`i*oc"ra*sy, n.; pl. Idiocrasies. Etym: [Idio- + Gr. idiocrasie.]

Defn: Peculiarity of constitution; that temperament, or state of
constitution, which is peculiar to a person; idiosyncrasy.

IDIOCRATIC; IDIOCRATICAL
Id`i*o*crat"ic, Id`i*o*crat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Peculiar in constitution or temperament; idiosyncratic.

IDIOCY
Id"i*o*cy, n. Etym: [From idiot; cf. Gr. Idiot, and cf. Idiotcy.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being an idiot; absence, or marked
deficiency, of sense and intelligence.
I will undertake to convict a man of idiocy, if he can not see the
proof that three angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles.
F. W. Robertson.

IDIOCYCLOPHANOUS
Id`i*o*cy*cloph"a*nous, a. Etym: [Idio- + Gr. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Same as Idiophanous.

IDIOELECTRIC
Id`i*o*e*lec"tric, a. Etym: [Idio- + electric: cf. F.
idioélectrique.] (Physics)

Defn: Electric by virtue of its own peculiar properties; capable of
becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to anelectric.
 -- n.

Defn: An idioelectric substance.

IDIOGRAPH
Id"i*o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A mark or signature peculiar to an individual; a trade-mark.

IDIOGRAPHIC; IDIOGRAPHICAL
Id`i*o*graph"ic, Id`i*o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an idiograph.

IDIOLATRY
Id`i*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Idio- + Gr.

Defn: Self-worship; excessive self-esteem.

IDIOM
Id"i*om, n. Etym: [F. idiome, L. idioma, fr. Gr. suus, and to E. so.]

1. The syntactical or structural form peculiar to any language; the
genius or cast of a language.
Idiom may be employed loosely and figuratively as a synonym of
language or dialect, but in its proper sense it signifies the
totality of the general rules of construction which characterize the
syntax of a particular language and distinguish it from other
tongues. G. P. Marsh.
By idiom is meant the use of words which is peculiar to a particular
language. J. H. Newman.
He followed their language [the Latin], but did not comply with the
idiom of ours. Dryden.

2. An expression conforming or appropriate to the peculiar structural
form of a language; in extend use, an expression sanctioned by usage,
having a sense peculiar to itself and not agreeing with the logical
sense of its structural form; also, the phrase forms peculiar to a
particular author.
Some that with care true eloquence shall teach, And to just idioms
fix our doubtful speech. Prior.
Sometimes we identify the words with the object -- though be courtesy
of idiom rather than in strict propriety of language. Coleridge.
Every good writer has much idiom. Landor.
It is not by means of rules that such idioms as the following are
made current: "I can make nothing of it." "He treats his subject
home." Dryden. "It is that within us that makes for righteousness."
M.Arnold. Gostwick (Eng. Gram. )

3. Dialect; a variant form of a language.

Syn.
 -- Dialect.
 -- Idiom, Dialect. The idioms of a language belong to its very
structure; its dialects are varieties of expression ingrafted upon it
in different localities or by different professions. Each county of
England has some peculiarities of dialect, and so have most of the
professions, while the great idioms of the language are everywhere
the same. See Language.

IDIOMATIC; IDIOMATICAL
Id`i*o*mat"ic, Id`i*o*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or conforming to, the mode of expression
peculiar to a language; as, an idiomatic meaning; an idiomatic
phrase.
 -- Id`i*o*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

IDIOMORPHIC
Id`i*o*morph"ic, a.

Defn: Idiomorphous.

IDIOMORPHOUS
Id`i*o*morph"ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Having a form of its own.

2. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Apperaing in distinct crystals; -- said of the mineral
constituents of a rock.

IDIOMUSCULAR
Id`i*o*mus"cu*lar, a. Etym: [Idio- + muscular.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Applied to a semipermanent contraction of a muscle, produced by
a mechanical irritant.

IDIOPATHETIC
Id`i*o*pa*thet"ic, a.

Defn: Idiopathic. [R.]

IDIOPATHIC; IDIOPATHICAL
Id`i*o*path"ic, Id`i*o*path"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. idiopathique.]
(Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to idiopathy; characterizing a disease arising
primarily, and not in consequence of some other disease or injury; --
opposed to symptomatic, sympathetic, and traumatic.
 -- Id`i*o*path"ic*al*ly, adv.

IDIOPATHY
Id`i*op"a*thy, n.; pl. Idiopathies. Etym: [Gr. idiopathie.]

1. A peculiar, or individual, characteristic or affection.
All men are so full of their own fancies and idiopathies, that they
scarce have the civility to interchange any words with a stranger.
Dr. H. More.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid state or condition not preceded or occasioned by any
other disease; a primary disease.

IDIOPHANOUS
Id`i*oph"a*nous, a. Etym: [Idio- + (Crystallog.)

Defn: Exhibiting interference figures without the aid of a
polariscope, as certain crystals.

IDIOPLASM
Id"i*o*plasm, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Idioplasma.

IDIOPLASMA
Id`i*o*plas"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: That portion of the cell protoplasm which is the seat of all
active changes, and which carries on the function of hereditary
transmission; -- distinguished from the other portion, which is
termed nutritive plasma. See Hygroplasm.

IDIOREPULSIVE
Id`i*o*re*pul"sive, a. Etym: [Idio- + repulsive.]

Defn: Repulsive by itself; as, the idiorepulsive power of heat.

IDIOSYNCRASY
Id`i*o*syn"cra*sy, n.; pl. Idiosyncrasies. Etym: [Gr. idiosyncrasie.
See Idiom, and Crasis.]

Defn: A peculiarity of physical or mental constitution or
temperament; a characteristic belonging to, and distinguishing, an
individual; characteristic susceptibility; idiocrasy; eccentricity.
The individual mind . . . takes its tone from the idiosyncrasies of
the body. I. Taylor.

IDIOSYNCRATIC; IDIOSYNCRATICAL
Id`i*o*syn*crat"ic, Id`i*o*syn*crat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of peculiar temper or disposition; belonging to one's peculiar
and individual character.

IDIOT
Id"i*ot, n. Etym: [F. idiot, L. idiota an uneducated, ignorant, ill-
informed person, Gr. Idiom.]

1. A man in private station, as distinguished from one holding a
public office. [Obs.]
St. Austin affirmed that the plain places of Scripture are sufficient
to all laics, and all idiots or private persons. Jer. Taylor.

2. An unlearned, ignorant, or simple person, as distinguished from
the educated; an ignoramus. [Obs.]
Christ was received of idiots, of the vulgar people, and of the
simpler sort, while he was rejected, despised, and persecuted even to
death by the high priests, lawyers, scribes, doctors, and rabbis. C.
Blount.

3. A human being destitute of the ordinary intellectual powers,
whether congenital, developmental, or accidental; commonly, a person
without understanding from birth; a natural fool; a natural; an
innocent.
Life . . . is a tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
Signifying nothing. Shak.

4. A fool; a simpleton; -- a term of reproach.
Weenest thou make an idiot of our dame Chaucer.

IDIOTCY
Id"i*ot*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. Idiocy.]

Defn: Idiocy. [R.]

IDIOTED
Id"i*ot*ed, a.

Defn: Rendered idiotic; befooled. [R.] Tennyson.

IDIOTHERMIC
Id`i*o*ther"mic, a. Etym: [Idio- + thermic.]

Defn: Self-heating; warmed, as the body of animal, by process going
on within itself.

IDIOTIC; IDIOTICAL
Id`i*ot"ic, Id`i*ot"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. idioticus ignorant, Gr.
idiotique. See Idiot.]

1. Common; simple. [Obs.] Blackwall.

2. Pertaining to, or like, an idiot; characterized by idiocy;
foolish; fatuous; as, an idiotic person, speech, laugh, or action.

IDIOTICALLY
Id`i*ot"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a idiotic manner.

IDIOTICON
Id`i*ot"i*con, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Idiot.]

Defn: A dictionary of a peculiar dialect, or of the words and phrases
peculiar to one part of a country; a glossary.

IDIOTISH
Id"i*ot*ish, a.

Defn: Like an idiot; foolish.

IDIOTISM
Id"i*ot*ism, n. Etym: [F. idiotisme, L. idiotismus the way of fashion
of a private person, the common or vulgar manner of speaking, Gr.
Idiot.]

1. An idiom; a form, mode of expression, or signification, peculiar
to a language.
Scholars sometimes give terminations and idiotisms, suitable to their
native language, unto words newly invented. M. Hale.

2. Lack of knowledge or mental capacity; idiocy; foolishness.
Worse than mere ignorance or idiotism. Shaftesbury.
The running that adventure is the greatist idiotism. Hammond.

IDIOTIZE
Id"i*ot*ize, v. i.

Defn: To become stupid. [R.]

IDIOTRY
Id"i*ot*ry, n.

Defn: Idiocy. [R.] Bp. Warburton.

IDLE
I"dle, a. [Compar. Idler; superl. Idlest.] Etym: [OE. idel, AS. idel
vain, empty, useless; akin to OS. idal, D. ijdel, OHG. ital vain,
empty, mere, G. eitel, Dan. & Sw. idel mere, pure, and prob. to Gr.
Ether.]

1. Of no account; useless; vain; trifling; unprofitable; thoughtless;
silly; barren. "Deserts idle." Shak.
Every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof
in the day of judgment. Matt. xii. 36.
Down their idle weapons dropped. Milton.
This idle story became important. Macaulay.

2. Not called into active service; not turned to appropriate use;
unemployed; as, idle hours.
The idle spear and shield were high uphing. Milton.

3. Not employed; unoccupied with business; inactive; doing nothing;
as, idle workmen.
Why stand ye here all the day idle Matt. xx. 6.

4. Given rest and ease; averse to labor or employment; lazy;
slothful; as, an idle fellow.

5. Light-headed; foolish. [Obs.] Ford. Idle pulley (Mach.), a pulley
that rests upon a belt to tighten it; a pulley that only guides a
belt and is not used to transmit power.
 -- Idle wheel (Mach.), a gear wheel placed between two others, to
transfer motion from one to the other without changing the direction
of revolution.
 -- In idle, in vain. [Obs.] "God saith, thou shalt not take the name
of thy Lord God in idle." Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Unoccupied; unemployed; vacant; inactive; indolent; sluggish;
slothful; useless; ineffectual; futile; frivolous; vain; trifling;
unprofitable; unimportant.
 -- Idle, Indolent, Lazy. A propensity to inaction is expressed by
each of these words; they differ in the cause and degree of this
characteristic. Indolent denotes an habitual love to ease, a settled
dislike of movement or effort; idle is opposed to busy, and denotes a
dislike of continuous exertion. Lazy is a stronger and more
contemptuous term than indolent.

IDLE
I"dle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Idled; p. pr. & vb. n. Idling.]

Defn: To lose or spend time in inaction, or without being employed in
business. Shak.

IDLE
I"dle, v. t.

Defn: To spend in idleness; to waste; to consume; -- often followed
by away; as, to idle away an hour a day.

IDLE-HEADED
I"dle-head`ed, a.

1. Foolish; stupid. [Obs.] "The superstitious idle-headed eld." Shak.

2. Delirious; infatuated. [Obs.] L'Estrange.

IDLENESS
I"dle*ness, n. Etym: [AS. idelnes.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being idle (in the various senses
of that word); uselessness; fruitlessness; triviality; inactivity;
laziness.

Syn.
 -- Inaction; indolence; sluggishness; sloth.

IDLE-PATED
I"dle-pat`ed, a.

Defn: Idle-headed; stupid. [Obs.]

IDLER
I"dler, n.

1. One who idles; one who spends his time in inaction; a lazy person;
a sluggard.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: One who has constant day duties on board ship, and keeps no
regular watch. Totten.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: An idle wheel or pulley. See under Idle.

IDLESS; IDLESSE
I"dless, I"dlesse, n.

Defn: Idleness. [Archaic] "In ydlesse." Spenser.
And an idlesse all the day Beside a wandering stream. Mrs. Browning.

IDLY
I"dly, adv.

Defn: In a idle manner; ineffectually; vainly; lazily; carelessly;
(Obs.) foolishly.

IDO
I"do (e"do), n.

Defn: An artificial international language, selected by the
"Delegation for the Adoption of an Auxillary International Language"
(founded at Paris in 1901), made public in 1907, and subsequently
greatly revised and extended by a permanent committee or "Academy."
It combines systematically the advantages of previous schemes with a
thoroughly logical word formation, and has neither accented constants
nor arbitrarily coined pronominal words. For each idea that root is
selected which is already most international, on the principle of the
"greatest facility for the greatest number of people." The word "Ido"
means in the language itself "offspring." The official name is:
"Linguo Internaciona di la Delegitaro (Sistema Ido)." --I"dism (#),
n. -- I"dist (#), n.

IDOCRASE
Id"o*crase, n. Etym: [Gr. idocrase.] (Min.)

Defn: Same as Vesuvianite.

IDOL
I"dol, n. Etym: [OE. idole, F. idole, L. idolum, fr. Gr. Wit, and cf.
Eidolon.]

1. An image or representation of anything. [Obs.]
Do her adore with sacred reverence, As th' idol of her maker's great
magnificence. Spenser.

2. An image of a divinity; a representation or symbol of a deity or
any other being or thing, made or used as an object of worship; a
similitude of a false god.
That they should not worship devils, and idols of gold. Rev. ix. 20.

3. That on which the affections are strongly (often excessively) set;
an object of passionate devotion; a person or thing greatly loved or
adored.
The soldier's god and people's idol. Denham.

4. A false notion or conception; a fallacy. Bacon.
The idols of preconceived opinion. Coleridge.

IDOLASTRE
I`do*las"tre, n. Etym: [OE., for idolatre.]

Defn: An idolater. [Obs.] Chaucer.

IDOLATER
I*dol"a*ter, n. Etym: [F. idolâtre: cf. L. idololatres, Gr.
Idolatry.]

1. A worshiper of idols; one who pays divine honors to images,
statues, or representations of anything made by hands; one who
worships as a deity that which is not God; a pagan.

2. An adorer; a great admirer.
Jonson was an idolater of the ancients. Bp. Hurd.

IDOLATRESS
I*dol"a*tress, n.

Defn: A female worshiper of idols.

IDOLATRICAL
I`do*lat"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. idolâtrique.]

Defn: Idolatrous. [Obs.]

IDOLATRIZE
I*dol"a*trize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Idolatrized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Idolatrizing.]

Defn: To worship idols; to pay idolatrous worship.

IDOLATRIZE
I*dol"a*trize, v. t.

Defn: To make in idol of; to idolize.

IDOLATROUS
I*dol"a*trous, a.

1. Of or pertaining to idolatry; partaking of the nature of idolatry;
given to idolatry or the worship of false gods; as, idolatrous
sacrifices.
[Josiah] put down the idolatrous priests. 2 Kings xxiii. 5.

2. Consisting in, or partaking of, an excessive attachment or
reverence; as, an idolatrous veneration for antiquity.

IDOLATROUSLY
I*dol"a*trous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a idolatrous manner.

IDOLATRY
I*dol"a*try, n.; pl. Idolatries. Etym: [F. idolâtrie, LL. idolatria,
L. idololatria, Fr. Gr.

1. The worship of idols, images, or anything which is not God; the
worship of false gods.
His eye surveyed the dark idolatries Of alienated Judah. Milton.

2. Excessive attachment or veneration for anything; respect or love
which borders on adoration. Shak.

IDOLISH
I"dol*ish, a.

Defn: Idolatrous. [Obs.] Milton.

IDOLISM
I"dol*ism, n.

Defn: The worship of idols. [Obs.]

IDOLIST
I"dol*ist, n.

Defn: A worshiper of idols. [Obs.] Milton.

IDOLIZE
I"dol*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Idolized; p. pr. & vb. n. Idolizing.]

1. To make an idol of; to pay idolatrous worship to; as, to idolize
the sacred bull in Egypt.

2. To love to excess; to love or reverence to adoration; as, to
idolize gold, children, a hero.

IDOLIZE
I"dol*ize, v. i.

Defn: To practice idolatry. [R.]
To idolize after the manner of Egypt. Fairbairn.

IDOLIZER
I"dol*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who idolizes or loves to the point of reverence; an
idolater.

IDOLOCLAST
I*dol"o*clast, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A breaker of idols; an iconoclast.

IDOLOGRAPHICAL
I*dol`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Idol + -graph.]

Defn: Descriptive of idols. [R.] Southey.

IDOLOUS
I"dol*ous, a.

Defn: Idolatrous. [Obs.] Bale.

IDOLUM; IDOLON
I*do"lum, I*do"lon, n.; pl. Idola (#). [L. See Idol; cf. Eidolon.]

Defn: Appearance or image; a phantasm; a spectral image; also, a
mental image or idea.

IDONEOUS
I*do"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. idoneus.]

Defn: Appropriate; suitable; proper; fit; adequate. [R.]
An ecclesiastical benefice . . . ought to be conferred on an idoneous
person. Ayliffe.

IDORGAN
Id*or"gan, n. Etym: [Gr. organ.] (Biol.)

Defn: A morphological unit, consisting of two or more plastids, which
does not possess the positive character of the person or stock, in
distinction from the physiological organ or biorgan. See Morphon.

IDRIALINE; IDRIALITE
Id"ri*a*line, Id"ri*a*lite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. idrialine.] (Min.)

Defn: A bituminous substance obtained from the mercury mines of
Idria, where it occurs mixed with cinnabar.

IDUMEAN
Id`u*me"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ancient Idumea, or Edom, in Western Asia.
 -- n.

Defn: An inhabitant of Idumea, an Edomite.

IDYL
I"dyl, n. Etym: [L. idyllium, Gr. idylle. See Idol.]

Defn: A short poem; properly, a short pastoral poem; as, the idyls of
Theocritus; also, any poem, especially a narrative or descriptive
poem, written in an eleveted and highly finished style; also, by
extension, any artless and easily flowing description, either in
poetry or prose, of simple, rustic life, of pastoral scenes, and the
like. [Written also idyll.]
Wordsworth's solemn-thoughted idyl. Mrs. Browning.
His [Goldsmith's] lovely idyl of the Vicar's home. F. Harrison.

IDYLLIC
I*dyl"lic, a.

Defn: Of or belonging to idyls.

I. E.
I. e.

Defn: Abbreviation of Latin id est, that is.

IF
If, conj. Etym: [OE. if, gif, AS. gif; akin to OFries. ief, gef, ef,
OS. ef, of, D. of, or, whether, if, G. ob whether, if, OHG. oba, ibu,
Icel. ef, Goth. iba, ibai, an interrogative particle; properly a case
form of a noun meaning, doubt (cf. OHG. iba doubt, condition, Icel.
if, ef, ifi, efi), and therefore orig. meaning, on condition that.]

1. In case that; granting, allowing, or supposing that; --
introducing a condition or supposition.
Tisiphone, that oft hast heard my prayer, Assist, if OEdipus deserve
thy care. Pope.
If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.
Matt. iv. 3.

2. Whether; -- in dependent questions.
Uncertain if by augury or chance. Dryden.
She doubts if two and two make four. Prior.
As if, But if. See under As, But.

I' FAITH
I' faith"

Defn: . In faith; indeed; truly. Shak.

IFERE
I*fere", a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. in fere.]

Defn: Together. [Obs.] Chaucer.

IGASURIC
Ig`a*su"ric, a. Etym: [See Igasurine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, nux vomica or St. Ignatius's
bean; as, igasuric acid.

IGASURINE
Ig`a*su"rine, n. Etym: [Malay igasura the nux vomica.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid found in nux vomica, and extracted as a white
crystalline substance.

IGLOO
Ig"loo, n.

1. An Eskimo snow house.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cavity, or excavation, made in the snow by a seal, over its
breathing hole in the ice.

IGNATIUS BEAN
Ig*na"tius bean`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Saint Ignatius's bean, under Saint.

IGNEOUS
Ig"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. igneus, fr. ignis fire; allied to Skr. agni,
Lith. ugnis, OSlav. ogne.]

1. Pertaining to, having the nature of, fire; containing fire;
resembling fire; as, an igneous appearance.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Resulting from, or produced by, the action of fire; as, lavas
and basalt are igneous rocks.

IGNESCENT
Ig*nes"cent, a. Etym: [L. ignescens, p.pr. of ignescere to become
inflamed, fr. ignis fire: cf. F. ignescent.]

Defn: Emitting sparks of fire when struck with steel; scintillating;
as, ignescent stones.

IGNICOLIST
Ig*nic"o*list, n. Etym: [L. ignis fire + colere to worship.]

Defn: A worshiper of fire. [R.]

IGNIFEROUS
Ig*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. ignifer; ignis fire + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Producing fire. [R.] Blount.

IGNIFLUOUS
Ig*nif"lu*ous, a. Etym: [L. ignifluus; ignis fire + fluere to flow.]

Defn: Flowing with fire. [Obs.] Cockerman.

IGNIFY
Ig"ni*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ignified; p. pr. & vb. n. Ignifying.]
Etym: [L. ignis fire + -fy.]

Defn: To form into fire. [R.] Stukeley.

IGNIGENOUS
Ig*nig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. ignigenus; ignis fire + genere, ginere,
to beget, produce.]

Defn: Produced by the action of fire, as lava. [R.]

IGNIPOTENCE
Ig*nip"o*tence, n.

Defn: Power over fire. [R.]

IGNIPOTENT
Ig*nip"o*tent, a. Etym: [L. ignipotens; ignis fire + potens
powerful.]

Defn: Presiding over fire; also, fiery.
Vulcan is called the powerful ignipotent. Pope.

IGNIS FATUUS
Ig"nis fat"u*us; pl. Ignes fatui. Etym: [L. ignis fire + fatuus
foolish. So called in allusion to its tendency to mislead travelers.]

1. A phosphorescent light that appears, in the night, over marshy
ground, supposed to be occasioned by the decomposition of animal or
vegetable substances, or by some inflammable gas; -- popularly called
also Will-with-the-wisp, or Will-o'-the-wisp, and Jack-with-a-
lantern, or Jack-o'-lantern.

2. Fig.: A misleading influence; a decoy.
Scared and guided by the ignis fatuus of popular superstition. Jer.
Taylor.

IGNITE
Ig*nite", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ignited; p. pr. & vb. n. Igniting.]
Etym: [L. ignitus, p.p. of ignire to ignite, fr. ignis fire. See
Igneous.]

1. To kindle or set on fire; as, to ignite paper or wood.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: To subject to the action of intense heat; to heat strongly; --
often said of incombustible or infusible substances; as, to ignite
iron or platinum.

IGNITE
Ig*nite", v. i.

Defn: To take fire; to begin to burn.

IGNITIBLE
Ig*nit"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being ignited.

IGNITION
Ig*ni"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ignition.]

1. The act of igniting, kindling, or setting on fire.

2. The state of being ignited or kindled. Sir T. Browne.

IGNITOR
Ig*nit"or, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, produces ignition; especially, a
contrivance for igniting the powder in a torpedo or the like.
[Written also igniter.]

IGNIVOMOUS
Ig*niv"o*mous, a. Etym: [L. ignivomus; ignis fire + vomere 8vomit.]

Defn: Vomiting fire. [R.]

IGNOBILITY
Ig`no*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. ignobilitas: cf. F. ignobilité.]

Defn: Ignobleness. [Obs.] Bale.

IGNOBLE
Ig*no"ble, a. Etym: [L. ignobilis; pref. in- not + nobilis noble: cf.
F. ignoble. See In- not, and Noble, a.]

1. Of low birth or family; not noble; not illustrious; plebeian;
common; humble.
I was not ignoble of descent. Shak.
Her royal stock graft with ignoble plants. Shak.

2. Not honorable, elevated, or generous; base.
'T but a base, ignoble mind, That mounts no higher than a bird can
soar. Shak.
Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife. Gray.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not a true or noble falcon; -- said of certain hawks, as the
goshawk.

Syn.
 -- Degenerate; degraded; mean; base; dishonorable; reproachful;
disgraceful; shameful; scandalous; infamous.

IGNOBLE
Ig*no"ble, v. t.

Defn: To make ignoble. [Obs.] Bacon.

IGNOBLENESS
Ig*no"ble*ness, n.

Defn: State or quality of being ignoble.

IGNOBLY
Ig*no"bly, adv.

Defn: In an ignoble manner; basely.

IGNOMINIOUS
Ig`no*min"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. ignominiosus: cf. F. ignominieux.]

1. Marked with ignominy; in curring public disgrace; dishonorable;
shameful.
Then first with fear surprised and sense of pain, Fled ignominious.
Milton.

2. Deserving ignominy; despicable.
One single, obscure, ignominious projector. Swift.

3. Humiliating; degrading; as, an ignominious judgment or sentence.
Macaulay.

IGNOMINIOUSLY
Ig`no*min"i*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ignominious manner; disgracefully; shamefully;
ingloriously.

IGNOMINY
Ig"no*min*y, n.; pl. Ignominies. Etym: [L. ignominia ignominy (i.e.,
a deprivation of one's good name); in- not + nomen name: cf. F.
ignominie. See In- not, and Name.]

1. Public disgrace or dishonor; reproach; infamy.
Their generals have been received with honor after their defeat;
yours with ignominy after conquest. Addison.
Vice begins in mistake, and ends in ignominy. Rambler.
Ignominy is the infliction of such evil as is made dishonorable, or
the deprivation of such good as is made honorable by the Common
wealth. Hobbes.

2. An act deserving disgrace; an infamous act.

Syn.
 -- Opprobrium; reproach; dishonor.

IGNOMY
Ig"no*my, n.

Defn: Ignominy. [R. & Obs.]
I blush to think upon this ignomy. Shak.

IGNORAMUS
Ig`no*ra"mus, n. Etym: [L., we are ignorant. See Ignore.]

1. (Law)

Defn: We are ignorant; we ignore; -- being the word formerly written
on a bill of indictment by a grand jury when there was not sufficient
evidence to warrant them in finding it a true bill. The phrase now
used is, "No bill," "No true bill," or "Not found," though in some
jurisdictions "Ignored" is still used. Wharton (Law Dict. ). Burn.

2. (pl. Ignoramuses (.)

Defn: A stupid, ignorant person; a vain pretender to knowledge; a
dunce.
An ignoramus in place and power. South.

IGNORANCE
Ig"no*rance, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. ignorantia.]

1. The condition of being ignorant; the want of knowledge in general,
or in relation to a particular subject; the state of being uneducated
or uninformed.
Ignorance is the curse of God, Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to
heaven. Shak.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: A willful neglect or refusal to acquire knowledge which one may
acquire and it is his duty to have. Book of Common Prayer. Invincible
ignorance (Theol.), ignorance beyond the individual's control and for
which, therefore, he is not responsible before God.

IGNORANT
Ig"no*rant, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. ignorans, -antis, p.pr. of ignorare
to be ignorant. See Ignore.]

1. Destitute of knowledge; uninstructed or uninformed; untaught;
unenlightened.
He that doth not know those things which are of use for him to know,
is but an ignorant man, whatever he may know besides. Tillotson.

2. Unacquainted with; unconscious or unaware; -- used with of.
Ignorant of guilt, I fear not shame. Dryden.

3. Unknown; undiscovered. [Obs.]
Ignorant concealment. Shak.
Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed Shak.

4. Resulting from ignorance; foolish; silly.
His shipping, Poor ignorant baubles! -- on our terrible seas, Like
eggshells moved. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Uninstructed; untaught; unenlightened; uninformed; unlearned;
unlettered; illiterate.
 -- Ignorant, Illiterate. Ignorant denotes want of knowledge, either
as to single subject or information in general; illiterate refers to
an ignorance of letters, or of knowledge acquired by reading and
study. In the Middle Ages, a great proportion of the higher classes
were illiterate, and yet were far from being ignorant, especially in
regard to war and other active pursuits.
In such business Action is eloquence, and the eyes of the ignorant
More learned than the ears. Shak.
In the first ages of Christianity, not only the learned and the wise,
but the ignorant and illiterate, embraced torments and death.
Tillotson.

IGNORANT
Ig"no*rant, n.

Defn: A person untaught or uninformed; one unlettered or unskilled;
an ignoramous.
Did I for this take pains to teach Our zealous ignorants to preach
Denham.

IGNORANTISM
Ig"no*rant*ism, n.

Defn: The spirit of those who extol the advantage to ignorance;
obscuriantism.

IGNORANTIST
Ig"no*rant*ist, n.

Defn: One opposed to the diffusion of knowledge; an obscuriantist.

IGNORANTLY
Ig"no*rant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a ignorant manner; without knowledge; inadvertently.
Whom therefoer ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you. Acts
xvii. 23.

IGNORE
Ig*nore", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ignored; p. pr. & vb. n. Ignoring.]
Etym: [L. ignorare; pref. in- not + the root of gnarus knowing,
noscere to become acquainted with. See Know, and cf. Narrate.]

1. To be ignorant of or not acquainted with. [Archaic]
Philosophy would solidly be established, if men would more carefully
distinguish those things that they know from those that they ignore.
Boyle.

2. (Law)

Defn: To throw out or reject as false or ungrounded; -- said of a
bill rejected by a grand jury for want of evidence. See Ignoramus.

3. Hence: To refuse to take notice of; to shut the eyes to; not to
recognize; to disregard willfully and causelessly; as, to ignore
certain facts; to ignore the presence of an objectionable person.
Ignoring Italy under our feet, And seeing things before, behind. Mrs.
Browning.

IGNOSCIBLE
Ig*nos"ci*ble, a. Etym: [L. ignoscibilis, fr. ignoscere to pardon,
lit., not to wish to know; pref. in- not + gnoscere, noscere, to
learn to know. See In- not, and Know.]

Defn: Pardonable. [Obs.] Bailey.

IGNOTE
Ig*note", a. Etym: [L. ignotus; pref. in- not + gnotus, notus, known,
p.p. of gnocere, nocere, to learn to know.]

Defn: Unknown. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.
 -- n.

Defn: One who is unknown. Bp. Hacket.

IGUANA
I*gua"na, n. Etym: [Sp. iguana, from the native name in Hayti. Cf.
Guana.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of the genus Iguana, a genus of large American
lizards of the family Iguanidæ. They are arboreal in their habits,
usually green in color, and feed chiefly upon fruits.

Note: The common iguana (I. tuberculata) of the West Indies and South
America is sometimes five feet long. Its flesh is highly prized as
food. The horned iguana (I. cornuta) has a conical horn between the
eyes.

IGUANIAN
I*gua"ni*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling, or pertaining to, the iguana.

IGUANID
I*gua"nid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Iguanoid.

IGUANODON
I*gua"no*don, n. Etym: [Iguana + Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of gigantic herbivorous dinosaurs having a birdlike
pelvis and large hind legs with three-toed feet capable of supporting
the entire body. Its teeth resemble those of the iguana, whence its
name. Several species are known, mostly from the Wealden of England
and Europe. See Illustration in Appendix.

IGUANODONT
I*gua"no*dont, a. (Paleon.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the genus Iguanodon.

IGUANOID
I*gua"noid, a. Etym: [Iguana + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Iguanidæ.

IHLANG-IHLANG
Ih*lang`-ih*lang", n. Etym: [Malayan, flower of flowers.]

Defn: A rich, powerful, perfume, obtained from the volatile oil of
the flowers of Canada odorata, an East Indian tree. [Also written
ylang-ylang.]

IHRAM
Ih*ram", n.

Defn: The peculiar dress worn by pilgrims to Mecca.

IHVH
IHVH. [Written also JHVH, YHVH.]

Defn: A transliteration of the four constants forming the Hebrew
tetragrammaton or "incommunicable name" of the Supreme Being, which
in latter Jewish tradition is not pronounced save with the vowels of
adonai or elohim, so that the true pronunciation is lost.

 Numerous attempts have been made to represent the supposed original
form of the word, as Jahaveh, Jahvaj, Jahve, Jahveh, Yahve, Yahveh,
Yahwe, Yahweh, etc.

IK
Ik, pron. Etym: [See I.]

Defn: I [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

Note: The Northern dialectic form of I, in Early English,
corresponding to ich of the Southern.

IL-
Il-

Defn: . A form of the prefix in-, not, and in-, among. See In-.

ILE
Ile, n. Etym: [AS. egl.]

Defn: Ear of corn. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

ILE
Ile, n. Etym: [See Aisle.]

Defn: An aisle. [Obs.] H. Swinburne.

ILE
Ile, n. Etym: [See Isle.]

Defn: An isle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ILEAC
Il"e*ac, a. Etym: [See Ileum.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ileum. [Written also iliac.]

2. See Iliac,

1. [R.] Ileac passion. (Med.) See Ileus.

ILEOCAECAL
Il`e*o*cæ"cal, a. Etym: [Ileum + cæcal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ileum and cæcum.

ILEOCOLIC
Il`e*o*col"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ileum and colon; as, the ileocolic, or
ileocæcal, valve, a valve where the ileum opens into the large
intestine.

ILEUM
Il"e*um, n. Etym: [L. ile, ileum, ilium, pl. ilia, groin, flank.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The last, and usually the longest, division of the small
intestine; the part between the jejunum and large intestine. [Written
also ileon, and ilium.]

2. (Anat.)

Defn: See Ilium. [R.]

Note: Most modern writers restrict ileum to the division of the
intestine and ilium to the pelvic bone.

ILEUS
Il"e*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition due to intestinal obstruction. It is
characterized by complete constipation, with griping pains in the
abdomen, which is greatly distended, and in the later stages by
vomiting of fecal matter. Called also ileac, or iliac, passion.

ILEX
I"lex, n. Etym: [L., holm oak.] (Bot.)
(a) The holm oak (Quercus Ilex).
(b) A genus of evergreen trees and shrubs, including the common
holly.

ILIAC
Il"i*ac, a. Etym: [L. Iliacus, Gr. Iliad.]

Defn: Pertaining to ancient Ilium, or Troy. Gladstone.

ILIAC
Il"i*ac, a. Etym: [Cf. F. iliaque. See Ileum, and cf. Jade a stone.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ilium, or dorsal bone
of the pelvis; as, the iliac artery. [Written also ileac.]

2. See Ileac, 1. [R.] Iliac crest, the upper margin of the ilium.
 -- Iliac passion. See Ileus.
 -- Iliac region, a region of the abdomen, on either side of the
hypogastric regions, and below the lumbar regions.

ILIACAL
I*li"a*cal, a.

Defn: Iliac. [R.]

ILIAD
Il"i*ad, n. Etym: [L. Ilias, -adis, Gr.

Defn: A celebrated Greek epic poem, in twenty-four books, on the
destruction of Ilium, the ancient Troy. The Iliad is ascribed to
Homer.

ILIAL
Il"i*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ilium; iliac.

ILICHE
I*liche", adv. Etym: [OE., fr. AS. gelic. Cf. Alike.]

Defn: Alike. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ILICIC
I*lic"ic, a. Etym: [L. ilex, ilicis, holm oak.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the holly (Ilex), and allied
plants; as, ilicic acid.

ILICIN
Il"i*cin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The bitter principle of the holly.

ILIO-
Il"i*o-. Etym: [From Ilium.]

Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to denote connection with, or
relation to, the ilium; as, ilio-femoral, ilio-lumbar, ilio-psoas,
etc.

ILIOFEMORAL
Il`i*o*fem"o*ral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the ilium and femur; as, iliofemoral ligaments.

ILIOLUMBAR
Il`i*o*lum"bar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the iliac and lumbar regions; as, the iliolumbar
artery.

ILIOPSOAS
Il`i*o*pso"as, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The great flexor muscle of the hip joint, divisible into two
parts, the iliac and great psoas, -- often regarded as distinct
muscles.

ILIUM
Il"i*um, n. Etym: [See Ileum.] (Anat.)

Defn: The dorsal one of the three principal bones comprising either
lateral half of the pelvis; the dorsal or upper part of the hip bone.
See Innominate bone, under Innominate. [Written also ilion, and
ileum.]

ILIXANTHIN
Il`ix*an"thin, n. Etym: [Ilex the genus including the holly + Gr.
(Chem.)

Defn: A yellow dye obtained from the leaves of the holly.

ILK
Ilk, a. Etym: [Scot. ilk, OE. ilke the same, AS. ilca. Cf. Each.]

Defn: Same; each; every. [Archaic] Spenser. Of that ilk, denoting
that a person's surname and the title of his estate are the same; as,
Grant of that ilk, i.e., Grant of Grant. Jamieson.

ILKE
Il"ke, a. Etym: [See Ilk.]

Defn: Same. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ILKON; ILKOON
Il*kon", Il*koon", pron. Etym: [See Ilk, and One.]

Defn: Each one; every one. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ILL
Ill, a. [The regular comparative and superlative are wanting, their
places being supplied by worse ( and worst (, from another root.]
Etym: [OE. ill, ille, Icel. illr; akin to Sw. illa, adv., Dan. ilde,
adv.]

1. Contrary to good, in a physical sense; contrary or opposed to
advantage, happiness, etc.; bad; evil; unfortunate; disagreeable;
unfavorable.
Neither is it ill air only that maketh an ill seat, but ill ways, ill
markets, and ill neighbors. Bacon.
There 's some ill planet reigns. Shak.

2. Contrary to good, in a moral sense; evil; wicked; wrong;
iniquitious; naughtly; bad; improper.
Of his own body he was ill, and gave The clergy ill example. Shak.

3. Sick; indisposed; unwell; diseased; disordered; as, ill of a
fever.
I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill. Shak.

4. Not according with rule, fitness, or propriety; incorrect; rude;
unpolished; inelegant.
That 's an ill phrase. Shak.
Ill at ease, uneasy; uncomfortable; anxious. "I am very ill at ease."
Shak.
 -- Ill blood, enmity; resentment.
 -- Ill breeding, want of good breeding; rudeness.
 -- Ill fame, ill or bad repute; as, a house of ill fame, a house
where lewd persons meet for illicit intercourse.
 -- Ill humor, a disagreeable mood; bad temper.
 -- Ill nature, bad disposition or temperament; sullenness; esp., a
disposition to cause unhappiness to others.
 -- Ill temper, anger; moroseness; crossness.
 -- Ill turn. (a) An unkind act. (b) A slight attack of illness.
[Colloq. U.S.] -- Ill will, unkindness; enmity; malevolence.

Syn.
 -- Bad; evil; wrong; wicked; sick; unwell.

ILL
Ill, n.

1. Whatever annoys or impairs happiness, or prevents success; evil of
any kind; misfortune; calamity; disease; pain; as, the ills of
humanity.
Who can all sense of others' ills escape Is but a brute at best in
human shape. Tate.
That makes us rather bear those ills we have Than fly to others that
we know not of. Shak.

2. Whatever is contrary to good, in a moral sense; wickedness;
depravity; iniquity; wrong; evil.
Strong virtue, like strong nature, struggles still, Exerts itself,
and then throws off the ill. Dryden.

ILL
Ill, adv.

Defn: In a ill manner; badly; weakly.
How ill this taper burns! Shak.
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth
accumulates and men decay. Goldsmith.

Note: Ill, like above, well, and so, is used before many participal
adjectives, in its usual adverbal sense. When the two words are used
as an epithet preceding the noun qualified they are commonly
hyphened; in other cases they are written separatively; as, an ill-
educated man; he was ill educated; an ill-formed plan; the plan,
however ill formed, was acceptable. Ao, also, the following: ill-
affected or ill affected, ill-arranged or ill arranged, ill-assorted
or ill assorted, ill-boding or ill boding, ill-bred or ill bred, ill-
conditioned, ill-conducted, ill-considered, ill-devised, ill-
disposed, ill-doing, ill-fairing, ill-fated, ill-favored, ill-
featured, ill-formed, ill-gotten, ill-imagined, ill-judged, ill-
looking, ill-mannered, ill-matched, ill-meaning, ill-minded, ill-
natured, ill-omened, ill-proportioned, ill-provided, ill-required,
ill-sorted, ill-starred, ill-tempered, ill-timed, ill-trained, ill-
used, and the like.

I' LL
I' ll

Defn: . Contraction for I will or I shall.
I'll by a sign give notice to our friends. Shak.

ILLABILE
Il*lab"ile, a.

Defn: Incapable of falling or erring; infalliable. [Obs.] --
Il`la*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.]

ILLACERABLE
Il*lac"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. illacerabilis: cf. F. illacérable. See
In- not, and Lacerable.]

Defn: Not lacerable; incapable of being torn or rent. [Obs.]

ILLACRYMABLE
Il*lac"ry*ma*ble, a. Etym: [L. illacrimabilis; pref. il- not +
lacrimabilis worthy of tears.]

Defn: Incapable of weeping. [Obs.] Bailey.

ILLAPSABLE
Il*laps"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. il- not + lapsable.]

Defn: Incapable of slipping, or of error. [R.]
Morally immutable and illapsable. Glanvill.

ILLAPSE
Il*lapse", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Illapsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Illapsing.]
Etym: [L. illapsus, p.p. of illabi; pref. il- in + labi to fall,
slide.]

Defn: To fall or glide; to pass; -- usually followed by into. Cheyne.

ILLAPSE
Il*lapse", n. Etym: [L. illapsus. See Illapse, v. i.]

Defn: A gliding in; an immisson or entrance of one thing into
another; also, a sudden descent or attack. Akenside.
They sit silent . . . waiting for an illapse of the spirit. Jeffrey.

ILLAQUEABLE
Il*la"que*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being insnared or entrapped. [R.] Cudworth.

ILLAQUEATE
Il*la"que*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illaqueated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illaqueating.] Etym: [L. illaqueatus, p.p. of illaqueare; pref. il-
in + laqueare to insnare, fr. laqueus, noose, snare.]

Defn: To insnare; to entrap; to entangle; to catch.
Let not the surpassing eloquence of Taylor dazzle you, nor his
scholastic retairy versatility of logic illaqueate your good sense.
Coleridge.

ILLAQUEATION
Il*la`que*a"tion, n.

1. The act of catching or insnaring. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

2. A snare; a trap. Johnson.

ILLATION
Il*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. illatio, fr. illatus, used as p.p. of
inferre to carry or bring in, but from a different root: cf. F.
illation. See 1st In-, and Tolerate, and cf. Infer.]

Defn: The act or process of inferring from premises or reasons;
perception of the connection between ideas; that which is inferred;
inference; deduction; conclusion.
Fraudulent deductions or inconsequent illations from a false
conception of things. Sir T. Browne.

ILLATIVE
Il"la*tive, a. Etym: [L. illativus: cf. F. illatif.]

Defn: Relating to, dependent on, or denoting, illation; inferential;
conclusive; as, an illative consequence or proposition; an illative
word, as then, therefore, etc. Illative conversion (Logic), a
converse or reverse statement of a proposition which in that form
must be true because the original proposition is true.
 -- Illative sense (Metaph.), the faculty of the mind by which it
apprehends the conditions and determines upon the correctness of
inferences.

ILLATIVE
Il"la*tive, n.

Defn: An illative particle, as for, because.

ILLATIVELY
Il"la*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: By inference; as an illative; in an illative manner.

ILLAUDABLE
Il*laud"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. illaudabilis. See In- not, and Laudable.]

Defn: Not laudable; not praise-worthy; worthy of censure or
disapprobation. Milton.
 -- Il*laud"a*bly, adv. [Obs.] Broome.

ILL-BODING
Ill`-bod"ing, a.

Defn: Boding evil; inauspicious; ill-omened. "Ill-boding stars."
Shak.

ILL-BRED
Ill"-bred`, a.

Defn: Badly educated or brought up; impolite; incivil; rude. See Note
under Ill, adv.

ILLECEBRATION
Il*lec`e*bra"tion, n. Etym: [See Illecebrous.]

Defn: Allurement. [R.] T. Brown.

ILLECEBROUS
Il*lec"e*brous, a. Etym: [L. illecebrosus, fr. illecebra allurement,
fr. illicere to allure.]

Defn: Alluring; attractive; enticing. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

ILLEGAL
Il*le"gal, a. Etym: [Pref. il- not + legal: cf. F. illégal.]

Defn: Not according to, or authorized by, law; specif., contrary to,
or in violation of, human law; unlawful; illicit; hence, immoral; as,
an illegal act; illegal trade; illegal love. Bp. Burnet.

ILLEGALITY
Il`le*gal"i*ty, n.; pl. Illegalities. Etym: [Cf. F. illégalité.]

Defn: The quality or condition of being illegal; unlawfulness; as,
the illegality of trespass or of false imprisonment; also, an illegal
act.

ILLEGALIZE
Il*le"gal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illegalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illegalizing.]

Defn: To make or declare illegal or unlawful.

ILLEGALLY
Il*le"gal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a illegal manner; unlawfully.

ILLEGALNESS
Il*le"gal*ness, n.

Defn: Illegality, unlawfulness.

ILLEGIBILITY
Il*leg`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being illegible.

ILLEGIBLE
Il*leg"i*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being read; not legible; as, illegible
handwriting; an illegible inscription.
 -- Il*leg"i*ble*ness, n.
 -- Il*leg"i*bly, adv.

ILLEGITIMACY
Il`le*git"i*ma*cy, n.

Defn: The state of being illegitimate. Blackstone.

ILLEGITIMATE
Il`le*git"i*mate, a.

1. Not according to law; not regular or authorized; unlawful;
improper.

2. Unlawfully begotten; born out of wedlock; bastard; as, an
illegitimate child.

3. Not legitimately deduced or inferred; illogical; as, an
illegitimate inference.

4. Not authorized by good usage; not genuine; spurious; as, an
illegitimate word. Illegitimate fertilization, or Illegitimate union
(Bot.), the fertilization of pistils by stamens not of their own
length, in heterogonously dimorphic and trimorphic flowers. Darwin.

ILLEGITIMATE
Il`le*git"i*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illegitimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illegitimating.]

Defn: To render illegitimate; to declare or prove to be born out of
wedlock; to bastardize; to illegitimatize.
The marriage should only be dissolved for the future, without
illegitimating the issue. Bp. Burnet.

ILLEGITIMATELY
Il`le*git"i*mate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a illegitimate manner; unlawfully.

ILLEGITIMATION
Il`le*git`i*ma"tion, n.

1. The act of illegitimating; bastardizing.

2. The state of being illegitimate; illegitimacy. [Obs.]
Gardiner had performed his promise to the queen of getting her
illegitimation taken off. Bp. Burnet.

ILLEGITIMATIZE
Il`le*git"i*ma*tize, v. t.

Defn: To render illegitimate; to bastardize.

ILLESIVE
Il*le"sive, a. Etym: [Pref. il- not + L. laedere, laesum, to injure.]

Defn: Not injurious; harmless. [R.]

ILLEVIABLE
Il*lev"i*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not leviable; incapable of being imposed, or collected. [R.]
Sir M. Hale.

ILL-FAVORED
Ill`-fa"vored, a.

Defn: Wanting beauty or attractiveness; deformed; ugly; ill-looking.
Ill-favored and lean-fleshed. Gen. xli. 3.
-- Ill`-fa"vored*ly, adv.
 -- Ill`-fa"vored*ness, n.

ILLIBERAL
Il*lib"er*al, a. Etym: [L. illiberalis; pref. il- not + liberalis
liberal: cf. F. illibéral.]

1. Not liberal; not free or generous; close; niggardly; mean; sordid.
"A thrifty and illiberal hand." Mason.

2. Indicating a lack of breeding, culture, and the like; ignoble;
rude; narrow-minded; disingenuous.

3. Not well authorized or elegant; as, illiberal words in Latin. [R.]
Chesterfield.

ILLIBERALISM
Il*lib"er*al*ism, n.

Defn: Illiberality. [R.]

ILLIBERALITY
Il*lib`er*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. illiberalitas: cf. F. illibéralité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being illiberal; narrowness of mind;
meanness; niggardliness. Bacon.

ILLIBERALIZE
Il*lib"er*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illiberalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illiberalizing.]

Defn: To make illiberal.

ILLIBERALLY
Il*lib"er*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a illiberal manner, ungenerously; uncharitably;
parsimoniously.

ILLIBERALNESS
Il*lib"er*al*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being illiberal; illiberality.

ILLICIT
Il*lic"it, a. Etym: [L. illicitus; pref. il- not + licitus, p.p. of
licere to be allowed or permitted: cf. F. illicite. See In- not, and
License.]

Defn: Not permitted or allowed; prohibited; unlawful; as, illicit
trade; illicit intercourse; illicit pleasure.
One illicit . . . transaction always leads to another. Burke.
-- Il*lic"it*ly, adv.
 -- Il*lic"it*ness, n.

ILLICITOUS
Il*lic"it*ous, a.

Defn: Illicit. [R.] Cotgrave.

ILLICIUM
Il*li"ci*um, n. Etym: [So called, in allusion to its aroma, from L.
illicium an allurement.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of Asiatic and American magnoliaceous trees, having
star-shaped fruit; star anise. The fruit of Illicium anisatum is used
as a spice in India, and its oil is largely used in Europe for
flavoring cordials, being almost identical with true oil of anise.

ILLIGHTEN
Il*light"en, v. t.

Defn: To enlighten. [Obs.]

ILLIMITABLE
Il*lim"it*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. il- not + limitable: cf. F.
illimitable.]

Defn: Incapable of being limited or bounded; immeasurable; limitless;
boundless; as, illimitable space.
The wild, the irregular, the illimitable, and the luxuriant, have
their appropriate force of beauty. De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- Boundless; limitless; unlimited; unbounded; immeasurable;
infinite; immense; vast.
 -- Il*lim"it*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Il*lim"it*a*bly, adv.

ILLIMITATION
Il*lim`it*a"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. il- not + limitation: cf. F.
illimitation.]

Defn: State of being illimitable; want of, or freedom from,
limitation. Bp. Hall.

ILLIMITED
Il*lim"it*ed, a.

Defn: Not limited; interminable. Bp. Hall.
 -- Il*lim"it*ed*ness, n.
The absoluteness and illimitedness of his commission was generally
much spoken of. Clarendon.

ILLINITION
Il`li*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. illinire, illinere, to besmear; pref. il-
in, on + linire, linere, to smear.]

1. A smearing or rubbing in or on; also, that which is smeared or
rubbed on, as ointment or liniment.

2. A thin crust of some extraneous substance formed on minerals. [R.]
A thin crust or illinition of black manganese. Kirwan.

ILLINOIS
Il`li*nois", n.sing. & pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of North American Indians, which formerly occupied the
region between the Wabash and Mississippi rivers.

ILLIQUATION
Il`li*qua"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. il- in + L. liquare to melt.]

Defn: The melting or dissolving of one thing into another.

ILLISH
Ill"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat ill. [Obs.] Howell.

ILLISION
Il*li"sion, n. Etym: [L. illisio, fr. illidere, illisum, to strike
against; pref. il- in + laedere to strike.]

Defn: The act of dashing or striking against. Sir T. Browne.

ILLITERACY
Il*lit"er*a*cy, n.; pl. Illiteracies. Etym: [From Illiterate.]

1. The state of being illiterate, or uneducated; want of learning, or
knowledge; ignorance; specifically, inability to read and write; as,
the illiteracy shown by the last census.

2. An instance of ignorance; a literary blunder.
The many blunders and illiteracies of the first publishers of his
[Shakespeare's] works. Pope.

ILLITERAL
Il*lit"er*al, a.

Defn: Not literal. [R.] B. Dawson.

ILLITERATE
Il*lit"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. illiteratus: pref. il- not + literatus
learned. See In- not, and Literal.]

Defn: Ignorant of letters or books; unlettered; uninstructed;
uneducated; as, an illiterate man, or people.

Syn.
 -- Ignorant; untaught; unlearned; unlettered; unscholary. See
Ignorant.
 -- Il*lit"er*ate*ly, adv.
 -- Il*lit"er*ate*ness, n.

ILLITERATURE
Il*lit"er*a*ture, n.

Defn: Want of learning; illiteracy. [R.] Ayliffe. Southey.

ILL-JUDGED
Ill"-judged`, a.

Defn: Not well judged; unwise.

ILL-LIVED
Ill"-lived`, a.

Defn: Leading a wicked life. [Obs.]

ILL-LOOKING
Ill"-look`ing, a.

Defn: Having a bad look; threatening; ugly. See Note under Ill, adv.

ILL-MANNERED
Ill`-man"nered, a.

Defn: Impolite; rude.

ILL-MINDED
Ill"-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Ill-disposed. Byron.

ILL-NATURED
Ill`-na"tured, a.

1. Of habitual bad temper; peevish; fractious; cross; crabbed; surly;
as, an ill-natured person.

2. Dictated by, or indicating, ill nature; spiteful. "The ill-natured
task refuse." Addison.

3. Intractable; not yielding to culture. [R.] "Ill-natured land." J.
Philips.
 -- Ill`-na"tured*ly, adv.
 -- Ill`-na"tured*ness, n.

ILLNESS
Ill"ness, n. Etym: [From Ill.]

1. The condition of being ill, evil, or bad; badness;
unfavorableness. [Obs.] "The illness of the weather." Locke.

2. Disease; indisposition; malady; disorder of health; sickness; as,
a short or a severe illness.

3. Wrong moral conduct; wickedness. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Malady; disease; indisposition; ailment.
 -- Illness, Sickness. Within the present century, there has been a
tendency in England to use illness in the sense of a continuous
disease, disorder of health, or sickness, and to confine sickness
more especially to a sense of nausea, or "sickness of the stomach."

ILL-NURTURED
Ill"-nur`tured, a.

Defn: Ill-bred. Shak.

ILLOCALITY
Il`lo*cal"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of locality or place. [R.] Cudworth.

ILLOGICAL
Il*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Ignorant or negligent of the rules of logic or correct
reasoning; as, an illogical disputant; contrary of the rules of logic
or sound reasoning; as, an illogical inference.
 -- Il*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Il*log"ic*al*ness, n.

ILL-OMENED
Ill`-o"mened, a.

Defn: Having unlucky omens; inauspicious. See Note under Ill, adv.

ILL-STARRED
Ill"-starred`, a.

Defn: Fated to be unfortunate; unlucky; as, an ill-starred man or
day.

ILL-TEMPERED
Ill`-tem"pered, a.

1. Of bad temper; morose; crabbed; sour; peevish; fretful;
quarrelsome.

2. Unhealthy; ill-conditioned. [Obs.]
So ill-tempered I am grown, that I am afraid I shall catch cold,
while all the world is afraid to melt away. Pepys.

ILL-TIMED
Ill"-timed`, a.

Defn: Done, attempted, or said, at an unsuitable or unpropitious
time.

ILLTREAT
Ill`treat", v. t.

Defn: To treat cruelly or improperly; to ill use; to maltreat.

ILLUDE
Il*lude", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illuded; p. pr. & vb. n. Illuding.]
Etym: [L. illudere, illusum; pref. il- in + ludere to play: cf. OF.
illuder. See Ludicrous.]

Defn: To play upon by artifice; to deceive; to mock; to excite and
disappoint the hopes of.

ILLUME
Il*lume", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illumed; p. pr. & vb. n. Illuming.]
Etym: [Cf. F. illuminer. See Illuminate.]

Defn: To throw or spread light upon; to make light or bright; to
illuminate; to illumine. Shak.
The mountain's brow, Illumed with fluid gold. Thomson.

ILLUMINABLE
Il*lu"mi*na*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being illuminated.

ILLUMINANT
Il*lu"mi*nant, n. Etym: [L. illuminans, -antis, p.pr. of illuminare.]

Defn: That which illuminates or affords light; as, gas and petroleum
are illuminants. Boyle.

ILLUMINARY
Il*lu"mi*na*ry, a.

Defn: Illuminative.

ILLUMINATE
Il*lu"mi*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Illuminated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Illuminating.] Etym: [L. illuminatus, p.p. of illuminare; pref. il-
in + luminare to enlighten, fr. lumen light. See Luminous, and cf.
Illume, Illumine, Enlimn, Limn.]

1. To make light; to throw light on; to supply with light, literally
or figuratively; to brighten.

2. To light up; to decorate with artificial lights, as a building or
city, in token of rejoicing or respect.

3. To adorn, as a book or page with borders, initial letters, or
miniature pictures in colors and gold, as was done in manuscripts of
the Middle Ages.

4. To make plain or clear; to dispel the obscurity to by knowledge or
reason; to explain; to elucidate; as, to illuminate a text, a
problem, or a duty.

ILLUMINATE
Il*lu"mi*nate, v. i.

Defn: To light up in token or rejoicing.

ILLUMINATE
Il*lu"mi*nate, a. Etym: [L. illuminatus, p.p.]

Defn: Enlightened. Bp. Hall.

ILLUMINATE
Il*lu"mi*nate, n.

Defn: One who enlightened; esp., a pretender to extraordinary light
and knowledge.

ILLUMINATI
Il*lu`mi*na"ti, n. pl. Etym: [L. illuminatus. See Illuminate, v. t.,
and cf. Illuminee.]

Defn: Literally, those who are enlightened; -- variously applied as
follows: -

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: Persons in the early church who had received baptism; in which
ceremony a lighted taper was given them, as a symbol of the spiritual
illumination they has received by that sacrament.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: Members of a sect which sprung up in Spain about the year 1575.
Their principal doctrine was, that, by means of prayer, they had
attained to so perfect a state as to have no need of ordinances,
sacraments, good works, etc.; -- called also Alumbrados,
Perfectibilists, etc.

3. (Mod. Hist.)

Defn: Members of certain associations in Modern Europe, who combined
to promote social reforms, by which they expected to raise men and
society to perfection, esp. of one originated in 1776 by Adam
Weishaupt, professor of canon law at Ingolstadt, which spread rapidly
for a time, but ceased after a few years.

4. Also applied to:
(a) An obscure sect of French Familists.
(b) The Hesychasts, Mystics, and Quietists;
(c) The Rosicrucians.

5. Any persons who profess special spiritual or intellectual
enlightenment.