

INTERPONE
In`ter*pone", v. t. Etym: [L. interponere; inter between + ponere to
place. See Position.]

Defn: To interpose; to insert or place between. [R.] Cudworth.

INTERPONENT
In`ter*po"nent, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, interposes; an interloper, an opponent.
[R.] Heywood.

INTERPOSAL
In`ter*pos"al, n. Etym: [From Interpose.]

Defn: The act of interposing; interposition; intervention.

INTERPOSE
In`ter*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interposed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interposing.] Etym: [F. interposer. See Inter-, and Pose, v. t.]

1. To place between; as, to interpose a screen between the eye and
the light.
Mountains interposed Make enemies of nations. Cowper.

2. To thrust; to intrude; to between, either for aid or for
troubling.
What watchful cares do interpose themselves Betwixt your eyes and
night Shak.
The common Father of mankind seasonably interposed his hand, and
rescues miserable man. Woodward.

3. To introduce or inject between the parts of a conversation or
argument. Milton.

INTERPOSE
In`ter*pose", v. i.

1. To be or come between.
Long hid by interposing hill or wood. Cowper.

2. To step in between parties at variance; to mediate; as, the prince
interposed and made peace. Pope.

3. To utter a sentiment by way of interruption. Boyle.

Syn.
 -- To intervene; intercede; mediate; interfere; intermeddle.
 -- To Interpose, Intermeddle, Interfere. A man may often interpose
with propriety in the concerns of others; he can never intermeddle
without being impertinent or officious; nor can be interfere without
being liable to the same charge, unless he has rights which are
interfered with. "In our practical use, interference is something
offensive. It is the pushing in of himself between two parties on the
part of a third who was not asked, and is not thanked for his pains,
and who, as the feeling of the word implies, had no business there;
while interposition is employed to express the friendly, peacemaking
mediation of one whom the act well became, and who, even if he was
not specially invited thereunto, is still thanked for what he has
done." Trench.

INTERPOSE
In"ter*pose, n.

Defn: Interposition. [Obs.]

INTERPOSER
In`ter*pos"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, interposes or intervenes; an obstacle
or interruption; a mediator or agent between parties. Shak.

INTERPOSIT
In`ter*pos"it, n. Etym: [From L. interpositus, p. p. of interponere.
See Interposition.]

Defn: An intermediate depot or station between one commercial city or
country and another. Mitford.

INTERPOSITION
In`ter*po*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. interpositio a putting between,
insertion, fr. interponere, interpositum: cf. F. interposition. See
Interpone, Position.]

1. The act of interposing, or the state of being interposed; a being,
placing, or coming between; mediation.

2. The thing interposed.

INTERPOSURE
In`ter*po"sure, n.

Defn: Interposition. [Obs.]

INTERPRET
In*ter"pret, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interpreted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interpreting.] Etym: [F. interprêter, L. interpretari, p. p.
interpretatus, fr. interpre interpeter, agent, negotiator; inter
between + (prob.) the root of pretium price. See Price.]

1. To explain or tell the meaning of; to expound; to translate orally
into intelligible or familiar language or terms; to decipher; to
define; -- applied esp. to language, but also to dreams, signs,
conduct, mysteries, etc.; as, to interpret the Hebrew language to an
Englishman; to interpret an Indian speech.
Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us. Matt. i. 23.
And Pharaoh told them his dreams; but there was none that could
interpret them unto Pharaoh. Gen. xli. 8.

2. To apprehend and represent by means of art; to show by
illustrative representation; as, an actor interprets the character of
Hamlet; a musician interprets a sonata; an artist interprets a
landscape.

Syn.
 -- To translate; explain; solve; render; expound; elucidate;
decipher; unfold; unravel.

INTERPRET
In*ter"pret, v. i.

Defn: To act as an interpreter. Shak.

INTERPRETABLE
In*ter"pret*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. interpretabilis: cf. F.
interprêtable.]

Defn: Admitting of interpretation; capable of being interpreted or
explained.

INTERPRETAMENT
In*ter"pre*ta*ment, n. Etym: [L. interpretamentum.]

Defn: Interpretation. [Obs.] Milton.

INTERPRETATION
In*ter`pre*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. interpretatio: cf. F.
interprétation.]

1. The act of interpreting; explanation of what is obscure;
translation; version; construction; as, the interpretation of a
foreign language, of a dream, or of an enigma.
Look how we can, or sad or merrily, Interpretation will misquote our
looks. Shak.

2. The sense given by an interpreter; exposition or explanation
given; meaning; as, commentators give various interpretations of the
same passage of Scripture.

3. The power or explaining. [R.] Bacon.

4. (Fine Arts)

Defn: An artist's way of expressing his thought or embodying his
conception of nature.

5. (Math.)

Defn: The act or process of applying general principles or formulæ to
the explanation of the results obtained in special cases.

Syn.
 -- Explanation; solution; translation; version; sense; exposition;
rendering; definition.

INTERPRETATIVE
In*ter"pre*ta*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. interprétatif.]

1. Designed or fitted to interpret; explanatory. "Interpretative
lexicography." Johnson.

2. According to interpretation; constructive.
An interpretative siding with heresies. Hammond.

INTERPRETATIVELY
In*ter"pre*ta*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: By interpretation. Ray.

INTERPRETER
In*ter"pret*er, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. entrepreteur, L. interpretator.]

Defn: One who or that which interprets, explains, or expounds; a
translator; especially, a person who translates orally between two
parties.
We think most men's actions to be the interpreters of their thoughts.
Locke.

INTERPRETIVE
In*ter"pre*tive, a.

Defn: Interpretative. [R.]

INTERPUBIC
In`ter*pu"bic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the pubic bones or cartilages; as, the interpubic disk.

INTERPUNCTION
In`ter*punc"tion, n. Etym: [L. interpunctio, fr. interpungere,
interppunctum, to interpoint. See Inter-, and Point.]

Defn: The insertion of points between word or sentences; punctuation.

INTERRADIAL
In`ter*ra"di*al, a.

Defn: Between the radii, or rays; -- in zoölogy, said of certain
parts of radiate animals; as, the interradial plates of a starfish.

INTERRAMAL
In`ter*ra"mal, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. ramus a branch.] (Anat.)

Defn: Between rami or branches; esp., between the mandibles, or rami
of the lower jaw; intermandibular.

INTERRECEIVE
In`ter*re*ceive", v. t.

Defn: To receive between or within.

INTERREGENCY
In`ter*re"gen*cy, n.

Defn: An interregnum. [Obs.] Blount.

INTERREGENT
In`ter*re"gent, n.

Defn: A person who discharges the royal functions during an
interregnum. Holland.

INTERREGNUM
In`ter*reg"num, n.; pl. Interregnums. Etym: [L., fr. inter between +
regnum dominion, reign. See Reign, and cf. Interreign.]

1. The time during which a throne is vacant between the death or
abdication of a sovereign and the accession of his successor.

2. Any period during which, for any cause, the executive branch of a
government is suspended or interrupted.

INTERREIGN
In"ter*reign`, n. Etym: [Cf. F. interrègne.]

Defn: An interregnum. [Obs.] Bacon.

INTERRELATED
In`ter*re*lat"ed, a.

Defn: Having a mutual or reciprocal relation or parallelism;
correlative.

INTERRELATION
In`ter*re*la"tion, n.

Defn: Mutual or reciprocal relation; correlation.

INTERRENAL
In`ter*re"nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the kidneys; as, the interrenal body, an organ found in
many fishes.
 -- n.

Defn: The interrenal body.

INTERREPELLENT
In`ter*re*pel"lent, a.

Defn: Mutually repellent. De Quincey.

INTERRER
In*ter"rer, n.

Defn: One who inters.

INTERREX
In"ter*rex`, n.; pl. E. Interrexes, L. Interreges. Etym: [L., fr.
inter between + rex king.]

Defn: An interregent, or a regent.

INTERROGATE
In*ter"ro*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interrogating.] Etym: [L.
interrogatus, p. p. of interrogare to ask; inter between + rogare to
ask. See Rogation.]

Defn: To question formally; to question; to examine by asking
questions; as, to interrogate a witness.
Wilt thou, uncalled, interrogate, Talker! the unreplying Fate
Emerson.

Syn.
 -- To question; ask. See Question.

INTERROGATE
In*ter"ro*gate, v. i.

Defn: To ask questions. Bacon.

INTERROGATE
In*ter"ro*gate, n.

Defn: An interrogation; a question. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INTERROGATEE
In*ter`ro*ga*tee", n.

Defn: One who is interrogated.

INTERROGATION
In*ter`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. interrogatio: cf. F. interrogation.]

1. The act of interrogating or questioning; examination by questions;
inquiry.

2. A question put; an inquiry.

3. A point, mark, or sign, thus [], indicating that the sentence with
which it is connected is a question. It is used to express doubt, or
to mark a query. Called also interrogation point.

Note: In works printed in the Spanish language this mark is not only
placed at the end of an interrogative sentence, but is also placed,
inverted [as thus (¿)], at the beginning.

INTERROGATIVE
In`ter*rog"a*tive (, a. Etym: [L. interrogativus: cf. F.
interrogatif.]

Defn: Denoting a question; expressed in the form of a question; as,
an interrogative sentence; an interrogative pronoun.

INTERROGATIVE
In`ter*rog"a*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: A word used in asking questions; as, who which why

INTERROGATIVELY
In`ter*rog"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form of, or by means of, a question; in an interrogative
manner.

INTERROGATOR
In*ter"ro*ga`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. interrogateur.]

Defn: One who asks questions; a questioner.

INTERROGATORY
In`ter*rog"a*to*ry, n.; pl. Interrogatories. Etym: [Cf. F.
interrogatoire.]

Defn: A formal question or inquiry; esp. (Law), a question asked in
writing. Macaulay.

INTERROGATORY
In`ter*rog"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. interrogatorius.]

Defn: Containing, expressing, or implying a question; as, an
interrogatory sentence.

INTERRUPT
In`ter*rupt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interrupted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interrupting.] Etym: [L. interruptus, p. p. of interrumpere to
interrupt; inter between + rumpere to break. See Rupture.]

1. To break into, or between; to stop, or hinder by breaking in upon
the course or progress of; to interfere with the current or motion
of; to cause a temporary cessation of; as, to interrupt the remarks
speaking.
Do not interrupt me in my course. Shak.

2. To divide; to separate; to break the monotony of; as, the evenness
of the road was not interrupted by a single hill.

INTERRUPT
In`ter*rupt", p. a. Etym: [L. interruptus, p. p.]

Defn: Broken; interrupted. [Obs.] Milton.

INTERRUPTED
In`ter*rupt"ed, a.

1. Broken; intermitted; suddenly stopped.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Irregular; -- said of any arrangement whose symmetry is
destroyed by local causes, as when leaflets are interposed among the
leaves in a pinnate leaf.

INTERRUPTEDLY
In`ter*rupt"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: With breaks or interruptions; discontinuously. Interruptedly
pinnate (Bot.), pinnate with small leaflets intermixed with large
ones. Gray.

INTERRUPTER
In`ter*rupt"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, interrupts.

2. (Elec.)

Defn: A device for opening and closing an electrical circuit; a
vibrating spring or tuning fork, arranged to make and break a circuit
at rapidly recurring intervals, by the action of the current itself.

INTERRUPTION
In`ter*rup"tion, n. Etym: [L. interruptio: cf. F. interruption.]

1. The act of interrupting, or breaking in upon.

2. The state of being interrupted; a breach or break, caused by the
abrupt intervention of something foreign; intervention;
interposition. Sir M. Hale.
Lest the interruption of time cause you to lose the idea of one part.
Dryden.

3. Obstruction caused by breaking in upon course, current, progress,
or motion; stop; hindrance; as, the author has met with many
interruptions in the execution of his work; the speaker or the
argument proceeds without interruption.

4. Temporary cessation; intermission; suspension.

INTERRUPTIVE
In`ter*rupt"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to interrupt; interrupting. "Interruptive forces." H.
Bushnell.
 -- In`ter*rupt"ive*ly, adv.

INTERSCAPULAR
In`ter*scap"u*lar, a.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the scapulæ or shoulder blades.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the upper back, or the part between the
shoulders; as, the interscapular feathers.

INTERSCAPULARS
In`ter*scap"u*lars, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The interscapular feathers of a bird.

INTERSCENDENT
In`ter*scend"ent, a. Etym: [See Inter-, and Ascend.] (Math.)

Defn: Having exponents which are radical quantities; -- said of
certain powers; as, xsq. root2, or xsq. roota. Interscedent series, a
series whose terms are interscendent quantities. Hutton.

INTERSCIND
In`ter*scind", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interscinded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interscinding.] Etym: [L. interscindere; inter between + scindere to
cut.]

Defn: To cut off. [R.]

INTERSCRIBE
In`ter*scribe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interscribed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interscribing.] Etym: [L. interscribere; inter between + scribere to
write.]

Defn: To write between. [R.]

INTERSECANT
In`ter*se"cant, a. Etym: [L. intersecans, p. pr. of intersecare. See
Intersect.]

Defn: Dividing into parts; crossing; intersecting.

INTERSECT
In`ter*sect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intersected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intersecting.] Etym: [L. intersectus, p. p. of intersecare to
intersect; inter + secare to cut. See Section.]

Defn: To cut into or between; to cut or cross mutually; to divide
into parts; as, any two diameters of a circle intersect each other at
the center.
Lands intersected by a narrow frith Abhor each other. Cowper.

INTERSECT
In`ter*sect", v. i.

Defn: To cut into one another; to meet and cross each other; as, the
point where two lines intersect.

INTERSECTION
In`ter*sec"tion, n. Etym: [L. intersectio: cf. F. intersection.]

1. The act, state, or place of intersecting.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: The point or line in which one line or surface cuts another.

INTERSECTIONAL
In`ter*sec"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or formed by, intersections.

INTERSEMINATE
In`ter*sem"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. interseminatus, p. p. of
interseminare. See Inter-, and Seminate.]

Defn: To sow between or among. [R.]

INTERSEPTAL
In`ter*sep"tal, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Between septa; as, the interseptal spaces or zones, between the
transparent, or septal, zones in striated muscle; the interseptal
chambers of a shell, or of a seed vessel.

INTERSERT
In`ter*sert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interserted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interserting.] Etym: [L. intersertus, p. p. of interserere to
intersert; inter between + serere to join, weave.]

Defn: To put in between other things; to insert. [Obs.] Brerewood.

INTERSERTTION
In`ter*sert"tion, n.

Defn: The act of interserting, or that which is interserted. [Obs.]
Hammond.

INTERSESAMOID
In`ter*ses"a*moid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between sesamoid bones; as, intersesamoid ligaments.

INTERSET
In`ter*set", v. t.

Defn: To set between or among. [R.]

INTERSHOCK
In`ter*shock, v. t.

Defn: To shock mutually. [R.]

INTERSIDEREAL
In`ter*si*de"re*al, a.

Defn: Between or among constellations or stars; interstellar.

INTERSOCIAL
In`ter*so"cial, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the mutual intercourse or relations of persons in
society; social.

INTERSOMNIOUS
In`ter*som"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. somnus sleep.]

Defn: Between the times of sleeping; in an interval of wakefulness.
[R.]

INTERSPACE
In"ter*space`, n. Etym: [L. interspatium. See Inter-, and Space.]

Defn: Intervening space. Bp. Hacket.

INTERSPEECH
In"ter*speech`, n.

Defn: A speech interposed between others. [R.] Blount.

INTERSPERSE
In`ter*sperse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Interspersed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Interspersing.] Etym: [L. interspersus interspersed; inter between,
among + spargere to scatter. See Sparse.]

1. To scatter or set here and there among other things; to insert at
intervals; as, to intersperse pictures in a book.
There, interspersed in lawns and op'ning glades, Thin trees arise
that shun each other's shades. Pope.

2. To diversify or adorn with things set or scattered at intervals;
to place something at intervals in or among; as, to intersperse a
book with pictures.
Which space is interspersed with small islands and rock. Cook.

INTERSPERSION
In`ter*sper"sion, n.

Defn: The act of interspersing, or the state of being interspersed.

INTERSPINAL; INTERSPINOUS
In`ter*spi"nal, In`ter*spi"nous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between spines; esp., between the spinous processes of the
vertebral column.

INTERSPIRATION
In`ter*spi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. interspiratio. See Inter-, and
Spirit.]

Defn: Spiritual inspiration at separate times, or at intervals.
[Obs.] Bp. Hall.

INTERSTAPEDIAL
In`ter*sta*pe"di*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, between the
stapes and the mediostapedial.
 -- n.

Defn: The interstapedial part of the columella.

INTERSTATE
In"ter*state`, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the mutual relations of States; existing between,
or including, different States; as, interstate commerce. Story.

INTERSTELLAR
In`ter*stel"lar, a.

Defn: Between or among the stars; as, interstellar space. Bacon.

INTERSTELLARY
In`ter*stel"la*ry, a.

Defn: Interstellar.

INTERSTERNAL
In`ter*ster"nal, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Between the sternal; -- said of certain membranes or parts of
insects and crustaceans.

INTERSTICE
In*ter"stice, n.; pl. Interstices. Etym: [L. interstitium a pause,
interval; inter between + sistere to set, fr. stare to stand: cf. F.
interstice. See Stand.]

1. That which intervenes between one thing and another; especially, a
space between things closely set, or between the parts which compose
a body; a narrow chink; a crack; a crevice; a hole; an interval; as,
the interstices of a wall.

2. An interval of time; specifically (R. C. Ch.), in the plural, the
intervals which the canon law requires between the reception of the
various degrees of orders.
Nonobservance of the interstices . . . is a sin. Addis & Arnold.

INTERSTICED
In*ter"sticed, a.

Defn: Provided with interstices; having interstices between; situated
at intervals.

INTERSTINCTIVE
In`ter*stinc"tive, a. Etym: [L. interstinctus, p. p. of
interstinguere to separate; inter + stinguere to extinguish.]

Defn: Distinguishing. [Obs.] Wallis.

INTERSTITIAL
In`ter*sti"tial, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to interstices; intermediate; within the
tissues; as, interstitial cavities or spaces in the tissues of
animals or plants.

INTERSTITION
In`ter*sti"tion, n.

Defn: An intervening period of time; interval. [Obs.] Gower.

INTERSTRATIFICATION
In`ter*strat`i*fi*ca"tion, n. (Geol.)

Defn: Stratification among or between other layers or strata; also,
that which is interstratified.

INTERSTRATIFIED
In`ter*strat"i*fied, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Stratified among or between other bodies; as, interstratified
rocks.

INTERSTRATIFY
In`ter*strat"i*fy, v. t. (Geol.)

Defn: To put or insert between other strata.

INTERTALK
In`ter*talk", v. i.

Defn: To converse. [Obs.] Carew.

INTERTANGLE
In`ter*tan"gle, v. t.

Defn: To entangle; to intertwine. "Moss and intertangled vines."
Longfellow.

INTERTARSAL
In`ter*tar"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the tarsal bones; as, the intertarsal articulations.

INTERTEX
In`ter*tex", v. t. Etym: [L. intertexere; inter between + texere to
weave.]

Defn: To intertwine; to weave or bind together. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

INTERTEXTURE
In`ter*tex"ture, n.

Defn: The act of interweaving, or the state of being interwoven; that
which is interwoven. "Knit in nice intertexture." Coleridge.
Skirted thick with intertexture firm Of thorny boughs. Cowper.

INTERTHORACIC
In`ter*tho*rac"ic, a.

Defn: In the thorax.

INTERTIE
In"ter*tie`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: In any framed work, a horizontal tie other than sill and plate
or other principal ties, securing uprights to one another.

INTERTISSUED
In`ter*tis"sued, a.

Defn: Interwoven. [R.] Shak.

INTERTRAFFIC
In`ter*traf"fic, n.

Defn: Mutual trade of traffic.

INTERTRANSPICUOUS
In`ter*tran*spic"u*ous, a.

Defn: Transpicuous within or between. [R.] Shelley.

INTERTRANSVERSE
In`ter*trans*verse", a.

Defn: Between the transverse processes of the vertebræ.

INTERTRIGO
In`ter*tri"go, n. Etym: [L., fr. inter between + terere, tritum, to
rub.] (Med.)

Defn: A rubbing or chafing of the skin; especially, an abrasion or
excoriation of the skin between folds, as in fat or neglected
children.

INTERTROCHANTERIC
In`ter*tro`chan*ter"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the trochanters of the femur.

INTERTROPICAL
In`ter*trop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Situated between or within the tropics. J. Morse.

INTERTUBULAR
In`ter*tu"bu*lar, a.

Defn: Between tubes or tubules; as, intertubular cells; intertubular
substance.

INTERTWINE
In`ter*twine", v. t.

Defn: To unite by twining one with another; to entangle; to
interlace. Milton.

INTERTWINE
In`ter*twine", v. i.

Defn: To be twined or twisted together; to become mutually involved
or enfolded.

INTERTWINE
In`ter*twine", n.

Defn: The act intertwining, or the state of being intertwined.
Coleridge.

INTERTWININGLY
In`ter*twin"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By intertwining or being intertwined.

INTERTWIST
In`ter*twist", v. t.

Defn: To twist together one with another; to intertwine.

INTERTWISTINGLY
In`ter*twist"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By intertwisting, or being intertwisted.

INTERUNGULAR; INTERUNGULATE
In`ter*un"gu*lar, In`ter*un"gu*late, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between ungulæ; as, interungular glands.

INTERURBAN
In`ter*ur"ban (in`ter*ûr"ban), a.

Defn: Going between, or connecting, cities or towns; as, interurban
electric railways.

INTERVAL
In"ter*val, n. Etym: [L. intervallum; inter between + vallum a wall:
cf. F. intervalle. See Wall.]

1. A space between things; a void space intervening between any two
objects; as, an interval between two houses or hills.
'Twixt host and host but narrow space was left, A dreadful interval.
Milton.

2. Space of time between any two points or events; as, the interval
between the death of Charles I. of England, and the accession of
Charles II.

3. A brief space of time between the recurrence of similar conditions
or states; as, the interval between paroxysms of pain; intervals of
sanity or delirium.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: Difference in pitch between any two tones. At intervals, coming
or happening with intervals between; now and then. "And Miriam
watch'd and dozed at intervals." Tennyson.
 -- Augmented interval (Mus.), an interval increased by half a step
or half a tone.

INTERVAL; INTERVALE
In"ter*val, In"ter*vale, n.

Defn: A tract of low ground between hills, or along the banks of a
stream, usually alluvial land, enriched by the overflowings of the
river, or by fertilizing deposits of earth from the adjacent hills.
Cf. Bottom, n., 7. [Local, U. S.]
The woody intervale just beyond the marshy land. The Century.

INTERVALLUM
In`ter*val"lum, n.; pl. Intervallums, L. Intervalla. Etym: [L.]

Defn: An interval. [R.]
And a' shall laugh without intervallums. Shak.
In one of these intervalla. Chillingworth.

INTERVARY
In`ter*va"ry, v. i.

Defn: To alter or vary between; to change. [Obs.] Rush.

INTERVEINED
In`ter*veined", a.

Defn: Intersected, as with veins.

INTERVENE
In`ter*vene", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Intervened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intervening.] Etym: [L. intervenire, interventum, to intervene, to
hinder; inter between + venire to come; akin to E. come: cf. F.
intervenir. See Come.]

1. To come between, or to be between, persons or things; -- followed
by between; as, the Mediterranean intervenes between Europe and
Africa.

2. To occur, fall, or come between, points of time, or events; as, an
instant intervened between the flash and the report; nothing
intervened ( i. e., between the intention and the execution) to
prevent the undertaking.

3. To interpose; as, to intervene to settle a quarrel.

4. In a suit to which one has not been made a party, to put forward a
defense of one's interest in the subject matter. Abbott.

INTERVENE
In`ter*vene", v. t.

Defn: To come between. [R.]
Self-sown woodlands of birch, alder, etc., intervening the different
estates. De Quincey.

INTERVENE
In`ter*vene", n.

Defn: A coming between; intervention; meeting. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

INTERVENER
In`ter*ven"er, n.

Defn: One who intervenes; especially (Law), a person who assumes a
part in a suit between others.

INTERVENIENCE; INTERVENIENCY
In`ter*ven"ience, In`ter*ven"ien*cy, n.

Defn: Intervention; interposition. [R.]

INTERVENIENT
In`ter*ven"ient, a. Etym: [L. interveniens, p. pr. of intervenire.]

Defn: Being or coming between; intercedent; interposed. [Obs.] Bacon.

INTERVENT
In`ter*vent", v. t. Etym: [See Intervene.]

Defn: To thwart; to obstruct. [Obs.] Chapman.

INTERVENTION
In`ter*ven"tion, n. Etym: [L. interventio an interposition: cf. F.
intervention.]

1. The act of intervening; interposition.
Sound is shut out by the intervention of that lax membrane. Holder.

2. Any interference that may affect the interests of others;
especially, of one or more states with the affairs of another;
mediation.
Let us decide our quarrels at home, without the intervention, of any
foreign power. Sir W. Temple.

3. (Civil Law)

Defn: The act by which a third person, to protect his own interest,
interposes and becomes a party to a suit pending between other
parties.

INTERVENTOR
In`ter*ven"tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. interventeur.]

Defn: One who intervenes; a mediator; especially (Eccles. Hist.), a
person designated by a church to reconcile parties, and unite them in
the choice of officers. Coleman.

INTERVENTRICULAR
In`ter*ven*tric"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between the ventricles; as, the interventricular partition of
the heart.

INTERVENUE
In`ter*ven"ue, n. Etym: [See Intervene, Avenue.]

Defn: Interposition. [Obs.] Sir H. Blount.

INTERVERT
In`ter*vert", v. t. Etym: [L. intervertere; inter between + vertere
to turn.]

Defn: To turn to another course or use. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

INTERVERTEBRAL
In`ter*ver"te*bral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Between vertebræ.
 -- In`ter*ver"te*bral*ly, adv.

INTERVIEW
In"ter*view, n. Etym: [F. entrevue, fr. entrevoir to see imperfectly,
to have a glimpse of, s'entrevoir to visit each other. See Inter-,
and View.]

1. A mutual sight or view; a meeting face to face; usually, a formal
or official meeting for consultation; a conference; as, the secretary
had an interview with the President.

2. A conservation, or questioning, for the purpose of eliciting
information for publication; the published statement so elicited.

Note: A recent use, originating in American newspapers, but
apparently becoming general.

INTERVIEW
In"ter*view, v. t.

Defn: To have an interview with; to question or converse with,
especially for the purpose of obtaining information for publication.
[Recent]

INTERVIEWER
In"ter*view`er, n.

Defn: One who interviews; especially, one who obtains an interview
with another for the purpose of eliciting his opinions or obtaining
information for publication.
It would have made him the prince of interviewers in these days.
Leslie Stephen.

INTERVIEWING
In"ter*view`ing, n.

Defn: The act or custom of holding an interview or interviews.
An article on interviewing in the "Nation" of January 28, 1869, . . .
was the first formal notice of the practice under that name. The
American.

INTERVISIBLE
In`ter*vis"i*ble, a. (Surv.)

Defn: Mutually visible, or in sight, the one from the other, as
stations.

INTERVISIT
In`ter*vis"it, v. i.

Defn: To exchange visits. [R.] Evelyn.

INTERVITAL
In`ter*vi"tal, a.

Defn: Between two lives. [R.]
Through all its [the spirit's] intervital gloom. Tennyson.

INTERVOCALIC
In`ter*vo*cal"ic, a. (Phon.)

Defn: Situated between vowels; immediately preceded and followed by
vowel sounds, as, p in occupy, d in idea, etc.

INTERVOLUTION
In`ter*vo*lu"tion, n.

Defn: The state of being intervolved or coiled up; a convolution; as,
the intervolutions of a snake. Hawthorne.

INTERVOLVE
In`ter*volve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intervolved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intervolving.] Etym: [Pref. inter- + L. volvere, volutum, to roll.]

Defn: To involve one within another; to twist or coil together.
Milton.

INTERWEAVE
In`ter*weave", v. t. [imp. & obs. p. p. Interwove; p. p. Interwoven;
p. pr. & vb. n. Interweaving.]

1. To weave together; to intermix or unite in texture or
construction; to intertwine; as, threads of silk and cotton
interwoven.
Under the hospitable covert nigh Of trees thick interwoven. Milton.

2. To intermingle; to unite intimately; to connect closely; as, to
interweave truth with falsehood. Dryden.
Words interwove with sighs found out their way. Milton.

INTERWISH
In`ter*wish", v. t.

Defn: To wish mutually in regarded to each other. [Obs.] Donne.

INTERWORKING
In`ter*work"ing, n.

Defn: The act of working in together; interweaving. Milton.

INTERWORLD
In`ter*world", n.

Defn: A world between other worlds. Holland.

INTERWOVE; INTERWOVEN
In`ter*wove", In`ter*wov"en,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Interweave.

INTERWREATHE
In`ter*wreathe", v. t.

Defn: To weave into a wreath; to intertwine. [R.] Lovelace.

INTESTABLE
In*tes"ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. intestabilis: cf. F. intestable. See In-
not, and Testable.] (Law)

Defn: Not capable of making a will; not legally qualified or
competent to make a testament. Blackstone.

INTESTACY
In*tes"ta*cy, n. Etym: [From Intestate.]

Defn: The state of being intestate, or of dying without having made a
valid will. Blackstone.

INTESTATE
In*tes"tate, a. Etym: [L. intestatus; pref. in- not + testatus, p. p.
of testari to make a will: cf. F. intestat. See Testament.]

1. Without having made a valid will; without a will; as, to die
intestate. Blackstone.
Airy succeeders of intestate joys. Shak.

2. Not devised or bequeathed; not disposed of by will; as, an
intestate estate.

INTESTATE
In*tes"tate, n. (Law)

Defn: A person who dies without making a valid will. Blackstone.

INTESTINAL
In*tes"ti*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. intestinal.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the intestines of an animal; as, the
intestinal tube; intestinal digestion; intestinal ferments.
Intestinal canal. Same as Intestine, n.
 -- Intestinal worm (Zoöl.), any species of helminth living in the
intestinal canal of any animal. The species are numerous.

INTESTINE
In*tes"tine, a. Etym: [L. intestinus, fr. intus on the inside,
within, fr. in in: cf. F. intestine. See In.]

1. Internal; inward; -- opposed to external.
Epilepsies, fierce catarrhs, Intestine stone and ulcers. Milton.

2. Internal with regard to a state or country; domestic; not foreign;
-- applied usually to that which is evil; as, intestine disorders,
calamities, etc.
Hoping here to end Intestine war in heaven, the arch foe subdued.
Milton.
An intestine struggle . . . between authority and liberty. Hume.

3. Depending upon the internal constitution of a body or entity;
subjective.
Everything labors under and intestine necessity. Cudworth.

4. Shut up; inclosed. [R.] Cowper.

INTESTINE
In*tes"tine, n.; pl. Intestines. Etym: [L. intestinum: cf. F.
intestin. See Intestine, a.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the alimentary canal between the stomach and the
anus. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus.

2. pl.

Defn: The bowels; entrails; viscera. Large intestine (Human Anat. &
Med.), the lower portion of the bowel, terminating at the anus. It is
adapted for the retention of fecal matter, being shorter, broader,
and less convoluted than the small intestine; it consists of three
parts, the cæcum, colon, and rectum.
 -- Small intestine (Human Anat. & Med.), the upper portion of the
bowel, in which the process of digestion is practically completed. It
is narrow and contorted, and consists of three parts, the duodenum,
jejunum, and ileum.

INTEXT
In"text, n.

Defn: The text of a book. [R.] Herrick.

INTEXTINE
In*tex"tine, n. Etym: [Infine + extine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A thin membrane existing in the pollen grains of some plants,
and situated between the extine and the intine, as in .

INTEXTURED
In*tex"tured, a.

Defn: Inwrought; woven in.

INTHIRST
In*thirst", v. t.

Defn: To make thirsty. [Obs.]

INTHRALL
In*thrall", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inthralled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inthralling.] Etym: [Cf. Enthrall.] [Written also inthral, enthral,
and enthrall.]

Defn: To reduce to bondage or servitude; to make a thrall, slave,
vassal, or captive of; to enslave.
She soothes, but never can inthrall my mind. Prior.

INTHRALLMENT
In*thrall"ment, n. Etym: [Written also inthralment, enthrallment.]

Defn: Act of inthralling, or state of being inthralled; servitude;
bondage; vassalage.

INTHRONE
In*throne", v. t.

Defn: Same as Enthrone.

INTHRONG
In*throng", v. i.

Defn: To throng or collect together. [R.] Fairfax.

INTHRONIZATION
In*thron`i*za"tion, n. Etym: [LL. inthronizatio.]

Defn: Enthronement. Bp. Warburton.

INTHRONIZE
In*thron"ize, v. t. Etym: [LL. inthronisare, Gr. Enthrone.]

Defn: To enthrone.

INTICE
In*tice", v. t.

Defn: See Entice.

INTIMACY
In"ti*ma*cy, n.; pl. Intimacies. Etym: [From Intimate.]

Defn: The state of being intimate; close familiarity or association;
nearness in friendship.

Syn.
 -- Acquaintance; familiarity; fellowship; friendship. See
Acquaintance.

INTIMATE
In"ti*mate, a. Etym: [Formerly intime, L. intimus, a superl.
corresponding to the compar. interior cf. F. intime. The form
intimate is due to confusion with intimate, v. t. See Interior.]

1. Innermost; inward; internal; deep-seated; hearty. "I knew from
intimate impulse." Milton.

2. Near; close; direct; thorough; complete.
He was honored with an intimate and immediate admission. South.

3. Close in friendship or acquaintance; familiar; confidential; as,
an intimate friend.

Syn.
 -- Familiar; near; friendly; confidential.

INTIMATE
In"ti*mate, n.

Defn: An intimate friend or associate; a confidant. Gov. of the
Tongue.

INTIMATE
In"ti*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intimating.] Etym: [L. intimatus, p. p. of intimare to put, bring,
drive, or press into, to announce, make known, from intimus the
inmost. See Intimate, a.]

1. To announce; to declare; to publish; to communicate; to make
known. [Obs.]
He, incontinent, did proclaim and intimate open war. E. Hall.
So both conspiring 'gan to intimate Each other's grief. Spenser.

2. To suggest obscurely or indirectly; to refer to remotely; to give
slight notice of; to hint; as, he intimated his intention of
resigning his office.
The names of simple ideas and substances, with the abstract ideas in
the mind, intimate some real existence, from which was derived their
original pattern. Locke.

INTIMATELY
In"ti*mate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intimate manner.

INTIMATION
In`ti*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. intimatio: cf. F. intimation.]

1. The act of intimating; also, the thing intimated.

2. Announcement; declaration. Macaulay.
They made an edict with an intimation that whosoever killed a stork,
should be banished. Holland.

3. A hint; an obscure or indirect suggestion or notice; a remote or
ambiguous reference; as, he had given only intimations of his design.
Without mentioning the king of England, or giving the least
intimation that he was sent by him. Bp. Burnet.

INTIME
In"time, a. Etym: [See Intimate, a.]

Defn: Inward; internal; intimate. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.

INTIMIDATE
In*tim"i*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intimidated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intimidating.] Etym: [LL. intimidatus, p. p. of intimidare to
frighten; pref. in- in + timidus fearful, timid: cf. F. intimider.
See Timid.]

Defn: To make timid or fearful; to inspire of affect with fear; to
deter, as by threats; to dishearten; to abash.
Now guilt, once harbored in the conscious breast, Intimidates the
brave, degrades the great. Johnson.

Syn.
 -- To dishearten; dispirit; abash; deter; frighten; terrify; daunt;
cow.

INTIMIDATION
In*tim`i*da"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intimidation.]

Defn: The act of making timid or fearful or of deterring by threats;
the state of being intimidated; as, the voters were kept from the
polls by intimidation.
The king carried his measures in Parliament by intimidation. Paley.

INTIMIDATORY
In*tim"i*da*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending or serving to intimidate.

INTINCTION
In*tinc"tion, n. Etym: [L. intinctio, fr. intingere to dip in; pref.
in- in + tingere to tinge.]

1. The act of tingeing or dyeing. Blount.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A method or practice of the administration of the sacrament by
dipping the bread or wafer in the wine and administering both
together.

INTINCTIVITY
In`tinc*tiv"i*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + L. tinctus, p. p. of
tingere to tinge]

Defn: The want of the quality of coloring or tingeing other bodies.
Kirwan.

INTINE
In"tine, n. Etym: [L. intus within. Cf. Extine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A transparent, extensible membrane of extreme tenuity, which
forms the innermost coating of grains of pollen.

INTIRE; INTIRELY
In*tire", a., In*tire"ly, adv.

Defn: See Entire, a., Entirely, adv.

INTITLE
In*ti"tle, v. t.

Defn: See Entitle.

INTITULE
In*tit"ule, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intituled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intituling.] Etym: [Cf. F. intituler. See Entitle.]

Defn: To entitle; to give a title to. Selden.

INTO
In"to, prep. Etym: [In + to.]

Defn: To the inside of; within. It is used in a variety of
applications.

1. Expressing entrance, or a passing from the outside of a thing to
its interior parts; -- following verbs expressing motion; as, come
into the house; go into the church; one stream falls or runs into
another; water enters into the fine vessels of plants.

2. Expressing penetration beyond the outside or surface, or access to
the inside, or contents; as, to look into a letter or book; to look
into an apartment.

3. Indicating insertion; as, to infuse more spirit or animation into
a composition.

4. Denoting inclusion; as, put these ideas into other words.

5. Indicating the passing of a thing from one form, condition, or
state to another; as, compound substances may be resolved into others
which are more simple; ice is convertible into water, and water into
vapor; men are more easily drawn than forced into compliance; we may
reduce many distinct substances into one mass; men are led by
evidence into belief of truth, and are often enticed into the
commission of crimes'into; she burst into tears; children are
sometimes frightened into fits; all persons are liable to be seduced
into error and folly.

Note: Compare In.

INTOLERABILITY
In*tol`er*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being intolerable; intolerableness. [R.]

INTOLERABLE
In*tol"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [F. intolérable, L. intolerabilis. See In-
not, and Tolerable.]

1. Not tolerable; not capable of being borne or endured; not proper
or right to be allowed; insufferable; insupportable; unbearable; as,
intolerable pain; intolerable heat or cold; an intolerable burden.

His insolence is more intolerable Than all the princes in the land
beside. Shak.

4. Enormous.
This intolerable deal of sack. Shak.
-- In*tol"er*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*tol"er*a*bly, adv.

INTOLERANCE
In*tol"er*ance, n. Etym: [L. intolerantia impatience,
unendurableness: cf. F. intolérance.]

1. Want of capacity to endure; as, intolerance of light.

2. The quality of being intolerant; refusal to allow to others the
enjoyment of their opinions, chosen modes of worship, and the like;
want of patience and forbearance; illiberality; bigotry; as,
intolerance shown toward a religious sect.
These few restrictions, I hope, are no great stretches of
intolerance, no very violent exertions of despotism. Burke.

INTOLERANCY
In*tol"er*an*cy, n.

Defn: Intolerance. Bailey.

INTOLERANT
In*tol"er*ant, a. Etym: [L. intolerans, -antis: cf. F. intolérant.
See In- not, and Tolerant.]

1. Not enduring; not able to endure.
The powers of human bodies being limited and intolerant of excesses.
Arbuthnot.

2. Not tolerating difference of opinion or sentiment, especially in
religious matters; refusing to allow others the enjoyment of their
opinions, rights, or worship; unjustly impatient of the opinion of
those disagree with us; not tolerant; unforbearing; bigoted.
Religion, harsh, intolerant, austere, Parent of manners like herself
severe. Cowper.

INTOLERANT
In*tol"er*ant, n.

Defn: An intolerant person; a bigot.

INTOLERANTLY
In*tol"er*ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intolerant manner.

INTOLERATED
In*tol"er*a`ted, a.

Defn: Not tolerated.

INTOLERATING
In*tol"er*a`ting, a.

Defn: Intolerant. [R.]

INTOLERATION
In*tol`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: Intolerance; want of toleration; refusal to tolerate a
difference of opinion.

INTOMB
In*tomb", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intombed; p. pr. & vb. n. Intombing.]

Defn: To place in a tomb; to bury; to entomb. See Entomb.

INTOMBMENT
In*tomb"ment, n.

Defn: See Entombment.

INTONATE
In"to*nate, v. i. Etym: [L. intonatus, p. p. of intonare to thunder,
resound.]

Defn: To thunder. [Obs.] Bailey.

INTONATE
In"to*nate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Intonated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intonating.] Etym: [See Intone.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: To sound the tones of the musical scale; to practice the sol-
fa.

2. To modulate the voice in a musical, sonorous, and measured manner,
as in reading the liturgy; to intone.

INTONATE
In"to*nate, v. t.

Defn: To utter in a musical or sonorous manner; to chant; as, to
intonate the liturgy.

INTONATION
In`to*na"tion, n. Etym: [See 1st Intonate.]

Defn: A thundering; thunder. [Obs.] Bailey.

INTONATION
In`to*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intonation. See Intone.] (Mus.)
(a) The act of sounding the tones of the musical scale.
(b) Singing or playing in good tune or otherwise; as, her intonation
was false.
(c) Reciting in a musical prolonged tone; intonating, or singing of
the opening phrase of a plain-chant, psalm, or canticle by a single
voice, as of a priest. See Intone, v. t.

INTONE
In*tone", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Intoning.]
Etym: [LL. intonare, intonatum; pref. in- in + L. tonus tone. See
Tone and cf. Entune, Intonate.]

Defn: To utter with a musical or prolonged note or tone; to chant;
as, to intone the church service.

INTONE
In*tone", v. i.

Defn: To utter a prolonged tone or a deep, protracted sound; to speak
or recite in a measured, sonorous manner; to intonate. Pope.

INTORSION
In*tor"sion, n. Etym: [L. intortio a curling, crisping: cf. F.
intorsion. See Intort, and cf. Intortion.]

1. A winding, bending, or twisting.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The bending or twining of any part of a plant toward one side
or the other, or in any direction from the vertical.

INTORT
In*tort", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intorted; p. pr. & vb. n. Intorting.]
Etym: [L. intortus, p. p. of intoquere to twist; pref. in- in +
torquere to twist.]

Defn: To twist in and out; to twine; to wreathe; to wind; to wring.
Pope.

INTORTION
In*tor"tion, n.

Defn: See Intorsion.

INTOXICANT
In*tox"i*cant, n.

Defn: That which intoxicates; an intoxicating agent; as, alcohol,
opium, and laughing gas are intoxicants.

INTOXICATE
In*tox"i*cate, a. Etym: [LL. intoxicatus, p. p. of intoxicare to drug
or poison; pref. in- in + L. toxicum a poison in which arrows were
dipped, Gr. Toxic.]

1. Intoxicated.

2. Overexcited, as with joy or grief.
Alas, good mother, be not intoxicate for me; I am well enough.
Chapman.

INTOXICATE
In*tox"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intoxicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intoxicating.]

1. To poison; to drug. South.

2. To make drunk; to inebriate; to excite or to stupefy by strong
drink or by a narcotic substance.
With new wine inoxicated both. Milton.

3. To excite to a transport of enthusiasm, frenzy, or madness; to
elate unduly or excessively.
Intoxicated with the sound of those very bells. G. Eliot.
They are not intoxicated by military success. Jowett (Thuc. ).

INTOXICATEDNESS
In*tox"i*ca`ted*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being intoxicated; intoxication; drunkenness. [R.]

INTOXICATING
In*tox"i*ca`ting, a.

Defn: Producing intoxication; as, intoxicating liquors.

INTOXICATION
In*tox`i*ca"tion, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: A poisoning, as by a spirituous or a narcotic substance.

2. The state of being intoxicated or drunk; inebriation; ebriety;
drunkenness; the act of intoxicating or making drunk.

2. A high excitement of mind; an elation which rises to enthusiasm,
frenzy, or madness.
That secret intoxication of pleasure. Spectator.

Syn.
 -- Drunkenness; inebriation; inebriety; ebriety; infatuation;
delirium. See Drunkenness.

INTRA-
In"tra-. Etym: [L. intra, prep., within, on the inside; akin to
inter. See Inter-.]

Defn: A prefix signifying in, within, interior; as, intraocular,
within the eyeball; intramarginal.

INTRAAXILLARY
In`tra*ax"il*la*ry, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Situated below the point where a leaf joins the stem.

INTRACELLULAR
In`tra*cel"lu*lar, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Within a cell; as, the intracellular movements seen in the
pigment cells, the salivary cells, and in the protoplasm of some
vegetable cells.

INTRACOLIC
In`tra*col"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Within the colon; as, the intracolic valve.

INTRACRANIAL
In`tra*cra"ni*al, a.

Defn: Within the cranium or skull. Sir W. Hamilton.

INTRACTABILITY
In*tract`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being intractable; intractableness. Bp. Hurd.

INTRACTABLE
In*tract"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. intractabilis: cf. F. intraitable,
formerly also intractable. See In- not, and Tractable.]

Defn: Not tractable; not easily governed, managed, or directed;
indisposed to be taught, disciplined, or tamed; violent; stubborn;
obstinate; refractory; as, an intractable child.

Syn.
 -- Stubborn; perverse; obstinate; refractory; cross; unmanageable;
unruly; headstrong; violent; ungovernable; unteachable.
 -- In*tract"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*tract"a*bly, adv.

INTRACTILE
In*tract"ile, a.

Defn: Not tractile; incapable of being drawn out or extended. Bacon.

INTRADOS
In*tra"dos, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. intra within + F. dos the back, L.
dorsum. Cf. Extrados.] (Arch.)

Defn: The interior curve of an arch; esp., the inner or lower curved
face of the whole body of voussoirs taken together. See Extrados.

INTRAFOLIACEOUS
In`tra*fo`li*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing immediately above, or in front of, a leaf; as,
intrafoliaceous stipules.

INTRAFUSION
In`tra*fu"sion, n. Etym: [Pref. intra- + L. fundere, fusum, to pour.]

Defn: The act of pouring into a vessel; specif. (Med.), the operation
of introducing a substance into a blood vessel; as, intrafusion of
blood.

INTRALOBULAR
In`tra*lob"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Within lobules; as, the intralobular branches of the hepatic
veins.

INTRAMARGINAL
In`tra*mar"gin*al, a.

Defn: Situated within the margin. Loudon.

INTRAMERCURIAL
In`tra*mer*cu"ri*al, a. (Astron.)

Defn: Between the planet Mercury and the sun; -- as, the hypothetical
Vulcan is intramercurial.

INTRAMOLECULAR
In`tra*mo*lec"u*lar, a. (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: Between molecules; situated, or acting, between the molecules
of bodies.

INTRAMUNDANE
In`tra*mun"dane, a.

Defn: Being within the material world; -- opposed to extramundane.

INTRAMURAL
In`tra*mu"ral, a.

1. Being within the walls, as of a city.

2. (Anat. & Med.)

Defn: Being within the substance of the walls of an organ; as,
intramural pregnancy.

INTRANQUILLITY
In`tran*quil"li*ty, n.

Defn: Unquietness; restlessness. Sir W. Temple.

INTRANSCALENT
In`trans*ca"lent, a.

Defn: Impervious to heat; adiathermic.

INTRANSGRESSIBLE
In`trans*gress"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. intragressibilis that can not be
crossed. See In- not, and Transgress.]

Defn: Incapable of being transgressed; not to be passes over or
crossed. Holland.

INTRANSIENT
In*trans"ient, a.

Defn: Not transient; remaining; permanent. Killingbeck.

INTRANSIGENT
In*trans"i*gent, a. Etym: [F. intransigeant (cf. Sp. intransigente);
pref. in- not + L. transigere to come to an agreement; trans across +
agere to lead, act.]

Defn: Refusing compromise; uncompromising; irreconcilable. Lond. Sat.
Rev.

INTRANSIGENTES
In`trans"i*gen*tes, n. pl. Etym: [Sp.] (Spanish Politics)

Defn: The extreme radicals; the party of the irreconcilables.

INTRANSITIVE
In*tran"si*tive, a. Etym: [L. intransitivus: cf. F. intransitif. See
In- not, and Transitive.]

1. Not passing farther; kept; detained. [R.]
And then it is for the image's sake and so far is intransitive; but
whatever is paid more to the image is transitive and passes further.
Jer. Taylor.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Not transitive; not passing over tas, an intransitive verb, e.
g., the bird flies; the dog runs.

Note: Intransitive verbs have no passive form. Some verbs which
appear at first sight to be intransitive are in reality, or were
originally, transitive verbs with a reflexive or other object
omitted; as, he keeps (i. e., himself) aloof from danger.
Intransitive verbs may take a noun of kindred signification for a
cognate object; as, he died the death of a hero; he dreamed a dream.
Some intransitive verbs, by the addition of a preposition, become
transitive, and so admit of a passive voice; as, the man laughed at;
he was laughed at by the man.

INTRANSITIVELY
In*tran"si*tive*ly, adv. (Gram.)

Defn: Without an object following; in the manner of an intransitive
verb.

IN TRANSITU
In` tran"si*tu. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: In transit; during passage; as, goods in transitu.

INTRANSMISSIBLE
In`trans*mis"si*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being transmitted.

INTRANSMUTABILITY
In`trans*mu`ta*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being intransmutable.

INTRANSMUTABLE
In`trans*mut"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not capable of being transmuted or changed into another
substance.

INTRANT
In"trant, a. Etym: [L. intrans, p. pr. of intrare to enter. See
Enter.]

Defn: Entering; penetrating.

INTRANT
In"trant, n.

Defn: One who enters; especially, a person entering upon some office
or station. Hume.

INTRANUCLEAR
In`tra*nu"cle*ar, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Within the nucleus of a cell; as. the intranuclear network of
fibrils, seen in the first stages of karyokinesis.

INTRAP
In*trap", v. t.

Defn: See Entrap. Spenser.

INTRAPARIETAL
In"tra*pa*ri"e*tal, a.

Defn: Situated or occurring within an inclosure; shut off from public
sight; private; secluded; retired.
I have no Turkish proclivities, and I do not think that, after all,
impaling is preferable as a mode of capital punishment to
intraparietal hanging. Roll

INTRAPETIOLAR
In`tra*pet"i*o*lar, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Situated between the petiole and the stem; -- said of the pair
of stipules at the base of a petiole when united by those margins
next the petiole, thus seeming to form a single stipule between the
petiole and the stem or branch; -- often confounded with
interpetiolar, from which it differs essentially in meaning.

INTRATERRITORIAL
In`tra*ter`ri*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Within the territory or a territory.

INTRATHORACIC
In`tra*tho*rac"ic, a.

Defn: Within the thora

INTRATROPICAL
In`tra*trop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Within the tropics.

INTRAUTERINE
In`tra*u"ter*ine, a.

Defn: Within the uterus or womb; as, intrauterine hemorrhage.

INTRAVALVULAR
In`tra*valv"u*lar, a.

Defn: Between valves.

INTRAVENOUS
In`tra*ve"nous, a.

Defn: Within the veins.

INTRAVENTRICULAR
In`tra*ven*tric"u*lar, a.

Defn: Within or between ventricles.

INTREASURE
In*treas"ure, v. t.

Defn: To lay up, as in a treasury; to hoard. [Obs.] Shak.

INTREAT
In*treat", v. t.

Defn: See Entreat. Spenser.

INTREATABLE
In*treat"a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + treatable.]

Defn: Not to be entreated; inexorable.

INTREATANCE
In*treat"ance, n.

Defn: Entreaty. [Obs.] Holland.

INTREATFUL
In*treat"ful, a.

Defn: Full of entreaty. [Obs.] Spenser.

INTRENCH
In*trench", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intrenched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intrenching.]

1. To cut in; to furrow; to make trenches in or upon.
It was this very sword intrenched it. Shak.
His face Deep scars of thunder had intrenched. Milton.

2. To surround with a trench or with intrenchments, as in
fortification; to fortify with a ditch and parapet; as, the army
intrenched their camp, or intrenched itself. "In the suburbs close
intrenched." Shak.

INTRENCH
In*trench", v. i.

Defn: To invade; to encroach; to infringe or trespass; to enter on,
and take possession of, that which belongs to another; -- usually
followed by on or upon; as, the king was charged with intrenching on
the rights of the nobles, and the nobles were accused of intrenching
on the prerogative of the crown.
We are not to intrench upon truth in any conversation, but least of
all with children. Locke.

INTRENCHANT
In*trench"ant, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + trenchant.]

Defn: Not to be gashed or marked with furrows. [Obs.]
As easy mayest thou the intrenchant air With thy keen sword impress,
as make me bleed. Shak.

INTRENCHMENT
In*trench"ment, n. Etym: [From Intrench.]

1. The act of intrenching or the state of being intrenched.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: Any defensive work consisting of at least a trench or ditch and
a parapet made from the earth thrown up in making such a ditch.
On our side, we have thrown up intrenchments on Winter and Prospect
Hills. Washington.

3. Any defense or protection.

4. An encroachment or infringement.
The slight intrenchment upon individual freedom. Southey.

INTREPID
In*trep"id, a. Etym: [L. intrepidus: cf. F. intrépide. See In- not,
and Trepidation.]

Defn: Not trembling or shaking with fear; fearless; bold; brave;
undaunted; courageous; as, an intrepid soldier; intrepid spirit.

Syn.
 -- Fearless; dauntless; resolute; brave; courageous; daring;
valiant; heroic; doughty.

INTREPIDITY
In`tre*pid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intrépidité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being intrepid; fearless bravery;
courage; resoluteness; valor.
Sir Roger had acquitted himself of two or three sentences with a look
of much business and great intrepidity. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Courage; heroism; bravery; fortitude; gallantry; valor. See
Courage, Heroism.

INTREPIDLY
In*trep"id*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intrepid manner; courageously; resolutely.

INTRICABLE
In"tri*ca*ble, a. Etym: [See Intricate.]

Defn: Entangling. [Obs.] Shelton.

INTRICACY
In"tri*ca*cy, n.; pl. Intricacies. Etym: [From Intricate.]

Defn: The state or quality of being intricate or entangled;
perplexity; involution; complication; complexity; that which is
intricate or involved; as, the intricacy of a knot; the intricacy of
accounts; the intricacy of a cause in controversy; the intricacy of a
plot.
Freed from intricacies, taught to live The easiest way. Milton.

INTRICATE
In"tri*cate, a. Etym: [L. intricatus, p. p. of intricare to entangle,
perplex. Cf. Intrigue, Extricate.]

Defn: Entangled; involved; perplexed; complicated; difficult to
understand, follow, arrange, or adjust; as, intricate machinery,
labyrinths, accounts, plots, etc.
His style was fit to convey the most intricate business to the
understanding with the utmost clearness. Addison.
The nature of man is intricate. Burke.

Syn.
 -- Intricate, Complex, Complicated. A thing is complex when it is
made up of parts; it is complicated when those parts are so many, or
so arranged, as to make it difficult to grasp them; it is intricate
when it has numerous windings and confused involutions which it is
hard to follow out. What is complex must be resolved into its parts;
what is complicated must be drawn out and developed; what is
intricate must be unraveled.

INTRICATE
In"tri*cate, v. t.

Defn: To entangle; to involve; to make perplexing. [Obs.]
It makes men troublesome, and intricates all wise discourses. Jer.
Taylor.

INTRICATELY
In"tri*cate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intricate manner.

INTRICATENESS
In"tri*cate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being intricate; intricacy.

INTRICATION
In`tri*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Entanglement. [Obs.]

INTRIGANTE
In`tri`gante", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A female intriguer.

INTRIGUE
In*trigue", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Intrigued; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intriguing.] Etym: [F. intriguer, OF. intriquer, entriquer; cf. It.
intrigare. See Intricate, Extricate.]

1. To form a plot or scheme; to contrive to accomplish a purpose by
secret artifice.

2. To carry on a secret and illicit love or amour.

INTRIGUE
In*trigue", v. t.

Defn: To fill with artifice and duplicity; to complicate; to
embarrass. [Obs.]
How doth it [sin] perplex and intrique the whole course of your
lives! Dr. J. Scott.

INTRIGUE
In*trigue", n. Etym: [Cf. F. intrique. See Intrigue, v. i.]

1. Intricacy; complication. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

2. A complicated plot or scheme intended to effect some purpose by
secret artifice; conspiracy; stratagem.
Busy meddlers with intrigues of state. Pomfret.

3. The plot or romance; a complicated scheme of designs, actions, and
events. Pope.

4. A secret and illicit love affair between two persons of different
sexes; an amour; a liaison.
The hero of a comedy is represented victorious in all his intrigues.
Swift.

Syn.
 -- Plot; scheme; conspiracy; machination.

INTRIGUER
In*trigu"er, n.

Defn: One who intrigues.

INTRIGUERY
In*trigu"er*y, n.

Defn: Arts or practice of intrigue.

INTRIGUINGLY
In*trigu"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By means of, or in the manner of, intrigue.

INTRINSE
In*trinse", a. Etym: [See Intrinsic, and Intense.]

Defn: Tightly drawn; or (perhaps) intricate. [Very rare]
Like rats, oft bite the holy cords atwain, Which are too intrinse to
unloose. Shak.

INTRINSIC
In*trin"sic, a. Etym: [L. intrinsecus inward, on the inside; intra
within + secus otherwise, beside; akin to E. second: cf. F.
intrinsèque. See Inter-, Second, and cf. Extrinsic.]

1. Inward; internal; hence, true; genuine; real; essential; inherent;
not merely apparent or accidental; -- opposed to extrinsic; as, the
intrinsic value of gold or silver; the intrinsic merit of an action;
the intrinsic worth or goodness of a person.
He was better qualified than they to estimate justly the intrinsic
value of Grecian philosophy and refinement. I. Taylor.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Included wholly within an organ or limb, as certain groups of
muscles; -- opposed to extrinsic. Intrinsic energy of a body
(Physics), the work it can do in virtue of its actual condition,
without any supply of energy from without.
 -- Intrinsic equation of a curve (Geom.), the equation which
expresses the relation which the length of a curve, measured from a
given point of it, to a movable point, has to the angle which the
tangent to the curve at the movable point makes with a fixed line.
 -- Intrinsic value. See the Note under Value, n.

Syn.
 -- Inherent; innate; natural; real; genuine.

INTRINSIC
In*trin"sic, n.

Defn: A genuine quality. [Obs.] Warburton.

INTRINSICAL
In*trin"sic*al, a. [Formerly written intrinsecal.]

1. Intrinsic.

2. Intimate; closely familiar. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

INTRINSICALITY
In*trin`si*cal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of

INTRINSICALLY
In*trin"sic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Internally;
A lie is a thing absolutely and intrinsically evil. South.

INTRINSICALNESS
In*trin"sic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being intrinsical; intrinsicality.

INTRINSICATE
In*trin"si*cate, a.

Defn: Intricate. [Obs.] Shak.

INTRO-
In"tro-. Etym: [L. intro, adv., inwardly, within. See Inter-.]

Defn: A prefix signifying within, into, in, inward; as, introduce,
introreception, introthoracic.

INTROCESSION
In`tro*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. introcedere, introcessum, to go in;
intro within + cedere to go.] (Med.)

Defn: A depression, or inward sinking of parts.

INTRODUCE
In`tro*duce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Introduced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Introducing.] Etym: [L. introducere, introductum; intro within +
ducere to lead. See Intro-, and Duke.]

1. To lead or bring in; to conduct or usher in; as, to introduce a
person into a drawing-room.

2. To put (something into a place); to insert; as, to introduce the
finger, or a probe.

3. To lead to and make known by formal announcement or
recommendation; hence, to cause to be acquainted; as, to introduce
strangers; to introduce one person to another.

4. To bring into notice, practice, cultivation, or use; as, to
introduce a new fashion, method, or plant.

5. To produce; to cause to exist; to induce. [Obs.]
Whosoever introduces habits in children, deserves the care and
attention of their governors. Locke.

6. To open to notice; to begin; to present; as, he introduced the
subject with a long preface.

Syn.
 -- To bring in; usher in; insert; begin; preface.

INTRODUCEMENT
In`tro*duce"ment, n.

Defn: Introduction. [Obs.]

INTRODUCER
In`tro*du"cer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, introduces.

INTRODUCT
In`tro*duct", v. t.

Defn: To introduce. [Obs.]

INTRODUCTION
In`tro*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. introductio: cf. F. introduction. See
Introduce.]

1. The act of introducing, or bringing to notice.

2. The act of formally making persons known to each other; a
presentation or making known of one person to another by name; as,
the introduction of one stranger to another.

3. That part of a book or discourse which introduces or leads the way
to the main subject, or part; preliminary; matter; preface; proem;
exordium.

4. A formal and elaborate preliminary treatise; specifically, a
treatise introductory to other treatises, or to a course of study; a
guide; as, an introduction to English literature.

INTRODUCTIVE
In`tro*duc"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. introductif.]

Defn: Serving to introduce; introductory.
 -- In`tro*duc"tive*ly, adv.

INTRODUCTOR
In`tro*duc"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: An introducer. [Obs.]

INTRODUCTORILY
In`tro*duc"to*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of introduction.

INTRODUCTORY
In`tro*duc"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. itroductorius: cf. F. introductoire.]

Defn: Serving to introduce something else; leading to the main
subject or business; preliminary; prefatory; as, introductory
proceedings; an introductory discourse.

INTRODUCTRESS
In`tro*duc"tress, n.

Defn: A female introducer.

INTROFLEXED
In`tro*flexed", a.

Defn: Flexed or bent inward.

INTROGRESSION
In`tro*gres"sion, n. Etym: [L. introgressus, p. p. of introgredi to
go in; intro- within + gradi to step, go.]

Defn: The act of going in; entrance. Blount.

INTROIT
In*tro"it, n. Etym: [L. introitus, fr. introire to go into, to enter;
intro within + ire to go: cf. F. introit.]

1. A going in. Caxton.

2. (R. C. Ch.)
(a) A psalm sung or chanted immediately before the collect, epistle,
and gospel, and while the priest is entering within the rails of the
altar.
(b) A part of a psalm or other portion of Scripture read by the
priest at Mass immediately after ascending to the altar.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: An anthem or psalm sung before the Communion service.

4. Any composition of vocal music appropriate to the opening of
church services.

INTROMISSION
In`tro*mis"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intromission. See Intromit.]

1. The act of sending in or of putting in; insertion. South.

2. The act of letting go in; admission.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: An intermeddling with the affairs of another, either on legal
grounds or without authority.

INTROMIT
In`tro*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intromitted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intromitting.] Etym: [L. intromittere, intromissum; intro- within +
mittere to send.]

1. To send in or put in; to insert or introduce. Greenhill.

2. To allow to pass in; to admit.
Glass in the window intromits light, without cold. Holder.

INTROMIT
In`tro*mit", v. i. (Scots Law)

Defn: To intermeddle with the effects or goods of another.

INTROMITTENT
In`tro*mit"tent, a. Etym: [L. intromittens, p. pr.]

1. Throwing, or allowing to pass, into or within.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Used in copulation; -- said of the external reproductive organs
of the males of many animals, and sometimes of those of the females.

INTROMITTER
In`tro*mit"ter, n.

Defn: One who intromits.

INTROPRESSION
In`tro*pres"sion, n.

Defn: Pressure acting within. [R.]

INTRORECEPTION
In`tro*re*cep"tion, n.

Defn: The act of admitting into or within. Hammond.

INTRORSE
In*trorse", a. Etym: [L. introrsus inward, contr. from introversus.
See Introvert.] (Bot.)

Defn: Turning or facing inward, or toward the axis of the part to
which it belongs. Gray.

INTROSPECT
In`tro*spect", v. t. Etym: [L. introspectus, p. p. introspicere to
look into; intro within + specere to look. See Spy.]

Defn: To look into or within; to view the inside of. Bailey.

INTROSPECTION
In`tro*spec"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. introspection.]

Defn: A view of the inside or interior; a looking inward;
specifically, the act or process of self-examination, or inspection
of one's own thoughts and feelings; the cognition which the mind has
of its own acts and states; self-consciousness; reflection.
I was forced to make an introspection into my own mind. Dryden.

INTROSPECTIONIST
In`tro*spec"tion*ist, n. (Metaph.)

Defn: One given to the introspective method of examining the
phenomena of the soul.

INTROSPECTIVE
In`tro*spec"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. introspectif.]

1. Inspecting within; seeing inwardly; capable of, or exercising,
inspection; self-conscious.

2. Involving the act or results of conscious knowledge of physical
phenomena; -- contrasted with associational. J. S. Mill.

INTROSUME
In`tro*sume", v. t. Etym: [Pref. intro- + L. sumere to take.]

Defn: To draw in; to swallow. [Obs.] Evelyn.

INTROSUSCEPTION
In`tro*sus*cep"tion, n.

1. The act or process of receiving within.
The person is corrupted by the introsusception of a nature which
becomes evil thereby. Coleridge.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Intussusception.

INTROVENIENT
In`tro*ven"ient, a. Etym: [L. introveniens, p. pr. of introvenire to
come in; intro within + venire to come.]

Defn: Coming in together; entering; commingling. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

INTROVERSION
In`tro*ver"sion, n. Etym: [See Introvert.]

Defn: The act of introverting, or the state of being introverted; the
act of turning the mind inward. Berkeley.

INTROVERT
In`tro*vert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Introverted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Introverting.] Etym: [Pref. intro- + L. vertere, versum, to turn.]

1. To turn or bend inward. "Introverted toes." Cowper.

2. To look within; to introspect. Lew Wallace.

INTRUDE
In*trude", v. i. Etym: [L. intrudere, intrusum; pref. in- in +
trudere to thrust, akin to E. threat. See Threat.]

Defn: To thrust one's self in; to come or go in without invitation,
permission, or welcome; to encroach; to trespass; as, to intrude on
families at unseasonable hours; to intrude on the lands of another.
Thy wit wants edge And manners, to intrude where I am graced. Shak.
Some thoughts rise and intrude upon us, while we shun them; others
fly from us, when we would hold them. I. Watts.

INTRUDE
In*trude", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intruded; p. pr. & vb. n. Intruding.]

1. To thrust or force (something) in or upon; especially, to force
(one's self) in without leave or welcome; as, to intrude one's
presence into a conference; to intrude one's opinions upon another.

2. To enter by force; to invade. [Obs.]
Why should the worm intrude the maiden bud Shak.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: The cause to enter or force a way, as into the crevices of
rocks.

Syn.
 -- To obtrude; encroach; infringe; intrench; trespass. See Obtrude.

INTRUDED
In*trud"ed, p. a. (Geol.)

Defn: Same as Intrusive.

INTRUDER
In*trud"er, n.

Defn: One who intrudes; one who thrusts himself in, or enters without
right, or without leave or welcome; a trespasser.
They were all strangers and intruders. Locke.

INTRUDRESS
In*trud"ress, n.

Defn: A female intruder.

INTRUNK
In*trunk", v. t.

Defn: To inclose as in a trunk; to incase. [R.] Ford.

INTRUSION
In*tru"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intrusion. See Intrude.]

1. The act of intruding, or of forcing in; especially, the forcing
(one's self) into a place without right or welcome; encroachment.
Why this intrusion Were not my orders that I should be private
Addison.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: The penetrating of one rock, while in a plastic or metal state,
into the cavities of another.

3. (Law)

Defn: The entry of a stranger, after a particular estate or freehold
is determined, before the person who holds in remainder or reversion
has taken possession.

4. (Scotch Ch.)

Defn: The settlement of a minister over 3 congregation without their
consent.

INTRUSIONAL
In*tru"sion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to intrusion.

INTRUSIONIST
In*tru"sion*ist, n.

Defn: One who intrudes; especially, one who favors the appointment of
a clergyman to a parish, by a patron, against the wishes of the
parishioners.

INTRUSIVE
In*tru"sive, a.

Defn: Apt to intrude; characterized by intrusion; entering without
right or welcome. Intrusive rocks (Geol.), rocks which have been
forced, while in a plastic or melted state, into the cavities or
between the cracks or layers of other rocks. The term is sometimes
used as equivalent to plutonic rocks. It is then contrasted with
effusive or volcanic rocks.
 -- In*tru"sive*ly, adv.
 -- In*tru"sive*ness, n.

INTRUST
In*trust", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Intrusted, p. pr. & vb. n.
Intrusting.]

Defn: To deliver (something) to another in trust; to deliver to
(another) something in trust; to commit or surrender (something) to
another with a certain confidence regarding his care, use, or
disposal of it; as, to intrust a servant with one's money or intrust
money or goods to a servant.

Syn.
 -- To commit; consign; confide. See Commit.

INTUBATION
In`tu*ba"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. in- in + tube.] (Med.)

Defn: The introduction of a tube into an organ to keep it open, as
into the larynx in croup.

INTUITION
In`tu*i"tion, n. Etym: [L. intuitus, p. p. of intueri to look on; in-
in, on + tueri: cf. F. intuition. See Tuition.]

1. A looking after; a regard to. [Obs.]
What, no reflection on a reward! He might have an intuition at it, as
the encouragement, though not the cause, of his pains. Fuller.

2. Direct apprehension or cognition; immediate knowledge, as in
perception or consciousness; -- distinguished from "mediate"
knowledge, as in reasoning; as, the mind knows by intuition that
black is not white, that a circle is not a square, that three are
more than two, etc.; quick or ready insight or apprehension.
Sagacity and a nameless something more, -- let us call it intuition.
Hawthorne.

3. Any object or truth discerned by direct cognition; especially, a
first or primary truth.

INTUITIONAL
In`tu*i"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, intuition; characterized by
intuition; perceived by intuition; intuitive.

INTUITIONALISM
In`tu*i"tion*al*ism, n. (Metaph.)

Defn: The doctrine that the perception or recognition of primary
truth is intuitive, or direct and immediate; -- opposed to
sensationalism, and experientialism.

INTUITIONALIST
In`tu*i"tion*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who holds the doctrine of intuitionalism.

INTUITIONISM
In`tu*i"tion*ism, n.

Defn: Same as Intuitionalism.

INTUITIONIST
In`tu*i"tion*ist, n.

Defn: Same as Intuitionalist. Bain.

INTUITIVE
In*tu"i*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. intuitif.]

1. Seeing clearly; as, an intuitive view; intuitive vision.

2. Knowing, or perceiving, by intuition; capable of knowing without
deduction or reasoning.
Whence the soul Reason receives, and reason is her being, Discursive,
or intuitive. Milton.

3. Received. reached, obtained, or perceived, by intuition; as,
intuitive judgment or knowledge; -- opposed to deductive. Locke.

INTUITIVELY
In*tu"i*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an intuitive manner.

INTUITIVISM
In*tu"i*tiv*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine that the ideas of right and wrong are intuitive.
J. Grote.

INTUMESCE
In`tu*mesce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Intumesced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Intumescing.] Etym: [L. intumescere; pref. in- in + tumescere to
swell up, incho. fr. tumere to swell. See Tumid.]

Defn: To enlarge or expand with heat; to swell; specifically, to
swell up or bubble up under the action of heat, as before the
blowpipe.
In a higher heat, it intumesces, and melts into a yellowish black
mass. Kirwan.

INTUMESCENCE
In`tu*mes"cence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. intumescence.]

1. The act or process of swelling or enlarging; also, the state of
being swollen; expansion; tumidity; especially, the swelling up of
bodies under the action of heat.
The intumescence of nations. Johnson.

2. Anything swollen or enlarged, as a tumor.

INTUMESCENT
In`tu*mes"cent, a. Etym: [L. intumescens, p. pr.]

Defn: Swelling up; expanding.

INTUMULATED
In*tu"mu*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. intumulatus. See In- not, and
Tumulate.]

Defn: Unburied. [Obs.]

INTUNE
In*tune", v. t.

Defn: To intone. Cf. Entune.

INTURBIDATE
In*tur"bid*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inturbidated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inturbidating.] Etym: [Pref. in- in + turbid.]

Defn: To render turbid; to darken; to confuse. [R.]
The confusion of ideas and conceptions under the same term painfully
inturbidates his theology. Coleridge.

INTURGESCENCE
In`tur*ges"cence, n. Etym: [L. inturgescens, p. pr. of inturgescere
to swell up. See 1st In-, and Turgescent.]

Defn: A swelling; the act of swelling, or state of being swelled.
[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

INTUSE
In"tuse, n. Etym: [L. intundere to bruise; pref. in- in + tundere,
tusum, to beat, bruise.]

Defn: A bruise; a contusion. [Obs.] Spenser.

INTUSSUSCEPTED
In`tus*sus*cep"ted, a. Etym: [See Intussusception.]

Defn: Received into some other thing or part, as a sword into a
sheath; invaginated.

INTUSSUSCEPTION
In`tus*sus*cep"tion, n. Etym: [L. intus within + susception. Cf.
Introsusception.]

1. The reception of one part within another.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The abnormal reception or slipping of a part of a tube, by
inversion and descent, within a contiguous part of it; specifically,
the reception or slipping of the upper part of the small intestine
into the lower; introsusception; invagination. Dunglison.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The interposition of new particles of formative material among
those already existing, as in a cell wall, or in a starch grain.

4. (Physiol.)

Defn: The act of taking foreign matter, as food, into a living body;
the process of nutrition, by which dead matter is absorbed by the
living organism, and ultimately converted into the organized
substance of its various tissues and organs.
Dead bodies increase by apposition; living bodies by
intrussusception. McKendrick.

INTWINE
In*twine", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Entwine.]

Defn: To twine or twist into, or together; to wreathe; as, a wreath
of flowers intwined. [Written also entwine.]

INTWINE
In*twine", v. i.

Defn: To be or to become intwined.

INTWINEMENT
In*twine"ment, n.

Defn: The act of twinning, or the state of being intwined.

INTWIST
In*twist", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Entwist.]

Defn: To twist into or together; to interweave. [Written also
entwist.]

INUENDO
In`u*en"do, n.

Defn: See Innuendo.

INULIN
In"u*lin, n. Etym: [From NL. Inula Helenium, the elecampane: cf. F.
inuline.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance of very wide occurrence. It is found dissolved in
the sap of the roots and rhizomes of many composite and other plants,
as Inula, Helianthus, Campanula, etc., and is extracted by solution
as a tasteless, white, semicrystalline substance, resembling starch,
with which it is isomeric. It is intermediate in nature between
starch and sugar. Called also dahlin, helenin, alantin, etc.

INULOID
In"u*loid, n. Etym: [Inulin + -oid.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance resembling inulin, found in the unripe bulbs of the
dahila.

INUMBRATE
In*um"brate, v. t. Etym: [L. inumbratus, p. p. of inumbrare to
shade.]

Defn: To shade; to darken. [Obs.]

INUNCTED
In*unc"ted, a. Etym: [See Inunction.]

Defn: Anointed. [Obs.] Cockeram.

INUNCTION
In*unc"tion, n. Etym: [L. inunctio, fr. inungere, inunctum, to
anoint. See 1st In-, and Unction.]

Defn: The act of anointing, or the state of being anointed; unction;
specifically (Med.), the rubbing of ointments into the pores of the
skin, by which medicinal agents contained in them, such as mercury,
iodide of potash, etc., are absorbed.

INUNCTUOSITY
In*unc`tu*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: The want of unctuosity; freedom from greasiness or oiliness;
as, the inunctuosity of porcelain clay. Kirwan.

INUNDANT
In*un"dant, a. Etym: [L. inundans, p. pr. of inundare.]

Defn: Overflowing. [R.] Shenstone.

INUNDATE
In*un"date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inundated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inundating.] Etym: [L. inundatus, p. p. of inundare to inundate;
pref. in- in + undare to rise in waves, to overflow, fr. unda a wave.
See Undulate.]

1. To cover with a flood; to overflow; to deluge; to flood; as, the
river inundated the town.

2. To fill with an overflowing abundance or superfluity; as, the
country was inundated with bills of credit.

Syn.
 -- To overflow; deluge; flood; overwhelm; submerge; drown.

INUNDATION
In`un*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. inundatio: cf. F. inondation.]

1. The act of inundating, or the state of being inundated; an
overflow; a flood; a rising and spreading of water over grounds.
With inundation wide the deluge reigns, Drowns the deep valleys, and
o'erspreads the plains. Wilkie.

2. An overspreading of any kind; overflowing or superfluous
abundance; a flood; a great influx; as, an inundation of tourists.
To stop the inundation of her tears. Shak.

INUNDERSTANDING
In*un`der*stand"ing, a.

Defn: Void of understanding. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

INURBANE
In`ur*bane", a. Etym: [L. inurbanus. See In- not, and Urbane.]

Defn: Uncivil; unpolished; rude. M. Arnold.
 -- In`ur*bane"ly, adv.
 -- In`ur*bane"ness, n.

INURBANITY
In`ur*ban"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inurbanité.]

Defn: Want of urbanity or courtesy; unpolished manners or deportment;
inurbaneness; rudeness. Bp. Hall.

INURE
In*ure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inured; p. pr. & vb. n. Inuring.] Etym:
[From pref. in- in + ure use, work. See Ure use, practice, Opera, and
cf. Manure.]

Defn: To apply in use; to train; to discipline; to use or accustom
till use gives little or no pain or inconvenience; to harden; to
habituate; to practice habitually. "To inure our prompt obedience."
Milton.
He . . . did inure them to speak little. Sir T. North.
Inured and exercised in learning. Robynson (More's Utopia).
The poor, inured to drudgery and distress. Cowper.

INURE
In*ure", v. i.

Defn: To pass into use; to take or have effect; to be applied; to
serve to the use or benefit of; as, a gift of lands inures to the
heirs. [Written also enure.]

INUREMENT
In*ure"ment, n.

Defn: Use; practice; discipline; habit; custom.

INURN
In*urn", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inurned; p. pr. & vb. n. Inurning.]

Defn: To put in an urn, as the ashes of the dead; hence, to bury; to
intomb.
The sepulcher Wherein we saw thee quietly inurned. Shak.

INUSITATE
In*u"si*tate, a. Etym: [L. inunsitatus unusual. See Use.]

Defn: Unusual. [R.] Bramhall.

INUSITATION
In*u"si*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Want of use; disuse. [R.] Paley.

INUST
In*ust", a. Etym: [L. inurere, inustum, to burn in; pref. in- in +
urere to burn.]

Defn: Burnt in. [Obs.]

INUSTION
In*us"tion, n.

Defn: The act of burning or branding. [Obs.] T. Adams.

INUTILE
In*u"tile, a. Etym: [L. inutilis: cf. F. inutile. See In- not,
Utile.]

Defn: Useless; unprofitable. [Obs.] Bacon.

INUTILITY
In`u*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. inutilitas: cf. F. inutilité.]

Defn: Uselessness; the quality of being unprofitable;
unprofitableness; as, the inutility of vain speculations and
visionary projects.

INUTTERABLE
In*ut"ter*a*ble, a.

Defn: Unutterable; inexpressible. Milton.

IN VACUO
In` vac"u*o. Etym: [L.] (Physics)

Defn: In a vacuum; in empty space; as, experiments in vacuo.

INVADE
In*vade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Invading.]
Etym: [L. invadere, invasum; pref. in- in + vadere to go, akin to E.
wade: cf. OF. invader, F. envahir. See Wade.]

1. To go into or upon; to pass within the confines of; to enter; --
used of forcible or rude ingress. [Obs.]
Which becomes a body, and doth then invade The state of life, out of
the grisly shade. Spenser.

2. To enter with hostile intentions; to enter with a view to conquest
or plunder; to make an irruption into; to attack; as, the Romans
invaded Great Britain.
Such an enemy Is risen to invade us. Milton.

3. To attack; to infringe; to encroach on; to violate; as, the king
invaded the rights of the people.

4. To grow or spread over; to affect injuriously and progressively;
as, gangrene invades healthy tissue.

Syn.
 -- To attack; assail; encroach upon. See Attack.

INVADE
In*vade", v. i.

Defn: To make an invasion. Brougham.

INVADER
In*vad"er, n.

Defn: One who invades; an assailant; an encroacher; an intruder.

INVAGINATE
In*vag"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To insert as in a sheath; to pr

INVAGINATE; INVAGINATED
In*vag"i*nate, In*vag"i*na`ted, a. (Biol.)
(a) Sheathed.
(b) Having one portion of a hollow organ drawn back within another
portion.

INVAGINATION
In*vag`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. pref. in- + vagina sheath.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: The condition of an invaginated organ or part.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: One of the methods by which the various germinal layers of the
ovum are differentiated.

Note: In embolic invagination, one half of the blastosphere is pushed
in towards the other half, producing an embryonic form known as a
gastrula.
 -- In epibolic invagination, a phenomenon in the development of some
invertebrate ova, the epiblast appears to grow over or around the
hypoblast.

INVALESCENCE
In`va*les"cence, n. Etym: [L. invalescens, p. pr. of invalescere to
become strong. See 1st In-, and Convalesce.]

Defn: Strength; health. [Obs.]

INVALETUDINARY
In*val`e*tu"di*na*ry, a.

Defn: Wanting health; valetudinary. [R.]

INVALID
In*val"id, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + valid: cf. F. invalide, L.
invalidus infirm, weak. Cf. Invalid infirm.]

1. Of no force, weight, or cogency; not valid; weak.

2. (Law)

Defn: Having no force, effect, or efficacy; void; null; as, an
invalid contract or agreement.

INVALID
In"va*lid, n. Etym: [F. invalide, n. & a., L. invalidus, a. See
Invalid null.]

Defn: A person who is weak and infirm; one who is disabled for active
service; especially, one in chronic ill health.

INVALID
In"va*lid, a. Etym: [See Invalid, n.]

Defn: Not well; feeble; infirm; sickly; as, he had an invalid
daughter.

INVALID
In"va*lid, v. t.

1. To make or render invalid or infirm. "Invalided, bent, and almost
blind." Dickens.

2. To classify or enroll as an invalid.
Peace coming, he was invalided on half pay. Carlyle.

INVALIDATE
In*val"i*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invalidated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Invalidating.] Etym: [From Invalid null.]

Defn: To render invalid; to weaken or lessen the force of; to destroy
the authority of; to render of no force or effect; to overthrow; as,
to invalidate an agreement or argument.

INVALIDATION
In*val`i*da"tion, n.

Defn: The act of inavlidating, or the state of being invalidated.
So many invalidations of their right. Burke.

INVALIDE
In`va*lide", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Invalid, n.

INVALIDISM
In"va*lid*ism, n.

Defn: The condition of an invalid; sickness; infirmity.

INVALIDITY
In`va*lid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. invalidité, LL. invaliditas want of
health.]

1. Want of validity or cogency; want of legal force or efficacy;
invalidness; as, the invalidity of an agreement or of a will.

2. Want of health; infirmity. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple.

INVALIDNESS
In*val"id*ness, n.

Defn: Invalidity; as, the invalidness of reasoning.

INVALOROUS
In*val"or*ous, a.

Defn: Not valorous; cowardly.

INVALUABLE
In*val"u*a*ble, a.

Defn: Valuable beyond estimation; inestimable; priceless; precious.

INVALUABLY
In*val"u*a*bly, adv.

Defn: Inestimably. Bp. Hall.

INVALUED
In*val"ued, a.

Defn: Inestimable. [R.] Drayton.

INVARIABILITY
In*va`ri*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. invariabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being invariable; invariableness; constancy;
uniformity.

INVARIABLE
In*va"ri*a*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + variable: cf. F.
invariable.]

Defn: Not given to variation or change; unalterable; unchangeable;
always uniform.
Physical laws which are invariable. I. Taylor.
-- In*va"ri*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- In*va"ri*a*bly, adv.

INVARIABLE
In*va"ri*a*ble, n. (Math.)

Defn: An invariable quantity; a constant.

INVARIANCE
In*va"ri*ance, n. (Math.)

Defn: The property of remaining invariable under prescribed or
implied conditions. J. J. Sylvester.

INVARIANT
In*va"ri*ant, n. (Math.)

Defn: An invariable quantity; specifically, a function of the
coefficients of one or more forms, which remains unaltered, when
these undergo suitable linear transformations. J. J. Sylvester.

INVASION
In*va"sion, n. Etym: [L. invasio: cf. F. invasion. See Invade.]

1. The act of invading; the act of encroaching upon the rights or
possessions of another; encroachment; trespass.

2. A warlike or hostile entrance into the possessions or domains of
another; the incursion of an army for conquest or plunder.

3. The incoming or first attack of anything hurtful or pernicious;
as, the invasion of a disease.

Syn.
 -- Invasion, Irruption, Inroad. Invasion is the generic term,
denoting a forcible entrance into a foreign country. Incursion
signifies a hasty and sudden invasion. Irruption denotes particularly
violent invasion. Inroad is entry by some unusual way involving
trespass and injury.

INVASIVE
In*va"sive, a. Etym: [LL. invasivus: cf. F. invasif. See Invade.]

Defn: Tending to invade; characterized by invasion; aggressive.
"Invasive war." Hoole.

INVECT
In*vect", v. i.

Defn: To inveigh. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

INVECTED
In*vec"ted, a. Etym: [L. invectus carried in. See Inveigh.] (Her.)

Defn: Having a border or outline composed of semicircles with the
convexity outward; -- the opposite of engrailed.

INVECTION
In*vec"tion, n. Etym: [L. invectio. See Inveigh.]

Defn: An inveighing against; invective. [Obs.] Fulke.

INVECTIVE
In*vec"tive, a. Etym: [L. invectivus: cf. F. invectif. See Inveigh.]

Defn: Characterized by invection; critical; denunciatory; satirical;
abusive; railing.

INVECTIVE
In*vec"tive, n. Etym: [F. invective.]

Defn: An expression which inveighs or rails against a person; a
severe or violent censure or reproach; something uttered or written,
intended to cast opprobrium, censure, or reproach on another; a harsh
or reproachful accusation; -- followed by against, having reference
to the person or thing affected; as an invective against tyranny.
The world will be able to judge of his [Junius'] motives for writing
such famous invectives. Sir W. Draper.

Syn.
 -- Abuse; censure; reproach; satire; sarcasm; railing; diatribe. See
Abuse.

INVECTIVELY
In*vec"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an invective manner. Shak.

INVEIGH
In*veigh", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Inveighed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inveighing.] Etym: [L. invehere, invectum, to carry or bring into or
against, to attack with words, to inveigh; pref. in- in + vehere to
carry. See Vehicle, and cf. Invective.]

Defn: To declaim or rail (against some person or thing); to utter
censorious and bitter language; to attack with harsh criticism or
reproach, either spoken or written; to use invectives; -- with
against; as, to inveigh against character, conduct, manners, customs,
morals, a law, an abuse.
All men inveighed against him; all men, except court vassals, opposed
him. Milton.
The artificial life against which we inveighed. Hawthorne.

INVEIGHER
In*veigh"er, n.

Defn: One who inveighs.

INVEIGLE
In*vei"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inveigled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inveigling.] Etym: [Prob. fr. F. aveugler to blind, to delude, OF.
aveugler, avugler, avegler, fr. F. aveugle blind, OF. aveugle,
avugle, properly, without eyes, fr. L. ab + oculus eye. The pref. in-
seems to have been substituted for a- taken as the pref. F. à, L. ad.
See Ocular.]

Defn: To lead astray as if blind; to persuade to something evil by
deceptive arts or flattery; to entice; to insnare; to seduce; to
wheedle.
Yet have they many baits and guileful spells To inveigle and invite
the un unwary sense. Milton.

INVEIGLEMENT
In*vei"gle*ment, n.

Defn: The act of inveigling, or the state of being inveigled; that
which inveigles; enticement; seduction. South.

INVEIGLER
In*vei"gler, n.

Defn: One who inveigles.

INVEIL
In*veil", v. t.

Defn: To cover, as with a vail. W. Browne.

INVENDIBILITY
In*vend`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being invendible; invendibleness; unsalableness.

INVENDIBLE
In*vend"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. invendibilis. See In- not, and Vendible.]

Defn: Not vendible or salable. Jefferson.
 -- In*vend"i*ble*ness, n.

INVENOM
In*ven"om, v. t.

Defn: See Envenom.

INVENT
In*vent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Invented; p. pr. & vb. n. Inventing.]
Etym: [L. inventus, p. p. of invenire to come upon, to find, invent;
pref. in- in + venire to come, akin to E. come: cf. F. inventer. See
Come.]

1. To come or light upon; to meet; to find. [Obs.]
And vowed never to return again, Till him alive or dead she did
invent. Spenser.

2. To discover, as by study or inquiry; to find out; to devise; to
contrive or produce for the first time; -- applied commonly to the
discovery of some serviceable mode, instrument, or machine.
Thus first Necessity invented stools. Cowper.

3. To frame by the imagination; to fabricate mentally; to forge; --
in a good or a bad sense; as, to invent the machinery of a poem; to
invent a falsehood.
Whate'er his cruel malice could invent. Milton.
He had invented some circumstances, and put the worst possible
construction on others. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- To discover; contrive; devise; frame; design; fabricate; concoct;
elaborate. See Discover.

INVENTER
In*vent"er, n.

Defn: One who invents.

INVENTFUL
In*vent"ful, a.

Defn: Full of invention. J. Gifford.

INVENTIBLE
In*vent"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being invented.

INVENTIBLENESS
In*vent"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being inventible.

INVENTION
In*ven"tion, n. Etym: [L. inventio: cf. F. invention. See Invent.]

1. The act of finding out or inventing; contrivance or construction
of that which has not before existed; as, the invention of
logarithms; the invention of the art of printing.

As the search of it [truth] is the duty, so the invention will be the
happiness of man. Tatham.

2. That which is invented; an original contrivance or construction; a
device; as, this fable was the invention of Esop; that falsehood was
her own invention.
We entered by the drawbridge, which has an invention to let one fall
if not premonished. Evelyn.

3. Thought; idea. Shak.

4. A fabrication to deceive; a fiction; a forgery; a falsehood.
Filling their hearers With strange invention. Shak.

5. The faculty of inventing; imaginative faculty; skill or ingenuity
in contriving anything new; as, a man of invention.
They lay no less than a want of invention to his charge; a capital
crime, . . . for a poet is a maker. Dryden.

6. (Fine Arts, Rhet., etc.)

Defn: The exercise of the imagination in selecting and treating a
theme, or more commonly in contriving the arrangement of a piece, or
the method of presenting its parts. Invention of the cross (Eccl.), a
festival celebrated May 3d, in honor of the finding of our Savior's
cross by St. Helena.

INVENTIOUS
In*ven"tious, a.

Defn: Inventive. [Obs.]

INVENTIVE
In*vent"ive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. inventif.]

Defn: Able and apt to invent; quick at contrivance; ready at
expedients; as, an inventive head or genius. Dryden.
 -- In*vent"ive*ly, adv.
 -- In*vent"ive*ness, n.

INVENTOR
In*vent"or, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. inventeur.]

Defn: One who invents or finds out something new; a contriver;
especially, one who invents mechanical devices.

INVENTORIAL
In`ven*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an inventory.
 -- In`ven*to"ri*al*ly, adv. Shak.

INVENTORY
In"ven*to*ry, n.; pl. Inventories. Etym: [L. inventarium: cf. LL.
inventorium, F. inventaire, OF. also inventoire. See Invent.]

Defn: An account, catalogue, or schedule, made by an executor or
administrator, of all the goods and chattels, and sometimes of the
real estate, of a deceased person; a list of the property of which a
person or estate is found to be possessed; hence, an itemized list of
goods or valuables, with their estimated worth; specifically, the
annual account of stock taken in any business.
There take an inventory of all I have. Shak.

Syn.
 -- List; register; schedule; catalogue. See List.

INVENTORY
In"ven*to*ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inventoried; p. pr. & vb. n.
Inventorying.] Etym: [Cf. F. inventorier.]

Defn: To make an inventory of; to make a list, catalogue, or schedule
of; to insert or register in an account of goods; as, a merchant
inventories his stock.
I will give out divers schedules of my beauty; it shall be
inventoried, and every particle and utensil labeled. Shak.

INVENTRESS
In*vent"ress, n. Etym: [Cf. L. inventrix, F. inventrice.]

Defn: A woman who invents. Dryden.

INVERACITY
In`ve*rac"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of veracity.

INVERISIMILITUDE
In*ver`i*si*mil"i*tude, n.

Defn: Want of verisimilitude or likelihood; improbability.

INVERNESS; INVERNESS CAPE
In`ver*ness", n., or In`ver*ness" cape".

Defn: A kind of full sleeveless cape, fitting closely about the neck.

Robert's wind-blown head and tall form wrapped in an Inverness cape.
Mrs. Humphry Ward.

INVERSE
In*verse", a. Etym: [L. inversus, p. p. of invertere: cf. F. inverse.
See Invert.]

1. Opposite in order, relation, or effect; reversed; inverted;
reciprocal; -- opposed to direct.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Inverted; having a position or mode of attachment the reverse
of that which is usual.

3. (Math.)

Defn: Opposite in nature and effect; -- said with reference to any
two operations, which, when both are performed in succession upon any
quantity, reproduce that quantity; as, multiplication is the inverse
operation to division. The symbol of an inverse operation is the
symbol of the direct operation with -1 as an index. Thus sin-1 x
means the arc whose sine is x. Inverse figures (Geom.), two figures,
such that each point of either figure is inverse to a corresponding
point in the order figure.
 -- Inverse points (Geom.), two points lying on a line drawn from the
center of a fixed circle or sphere, and so related that the product
of their distances from the center of the circle or sphere is equal
to the square of the radius.
 -- Inverse, or Reciprocal, ratio (Math.), the ratio of the
reciprocals of two quantities.
 -- Inverse, or Reciprocal, proportion, an equality between a direct
ratio and a reciprocal ratio; thus, 4 : 2 : : , or 4 : 2 : : 3 : 6,
inversely.

INVERSE
In"verse, n.

Defn: That which is inverse.
Thus the course of human study is the inverse of the course of things
in nature. Tatham.

INVERSELY
In*verse"ly, adv.

Defn: In an inverse order or manner; by inversion; -- opposed to
directly. Inversely proportional. See Directly proportional, under
Directly, and Inversion, 4.

INVERSION
In*ver"sion, n. Etym: [L. inversio: cf. F. inversion. See Invert.]

1. The act of inverting, or turning over or backward, or the state of
being inverted.

2. A change by inverted order; a reversed position or arrangement of
things; transposition.
It is just the inversion of an act of Parliament; your lordship first
signed it, and then it was passed among the Lords and Commons.
Dryden.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: A movement in tactics by which the order of companies in line
is inverted, the right being on the left, the left on the right, and
so on.

4. (Math.)

Defn: A change in the order of the terms of a proportion, so that the
second takes the place of the first, and the fourth of the third.

5. (Geom.)

Defn: A peculiar method of transformation, in which a figure is
replaced by its inverse figure. Propositions that are true for the
original figure thus furnish new propositions that are true in the
inverse figure. See Inverse figures, under Inverse.

6. (Gram.)

Defn: A change of the usual order of words or phrases; as, "of all
vices, impurity is one of the most detestable," instead of, "impurity
is one of the most detestable of all vices."

7. (Rhet.)

Defn: A method of reasoning in which the orator shows that arguments
advanced by his adversary in opposition to him are really favorable
to his cause.

8. (Mus.)
(a) Said of intervals, when the lower tone is placed an octave
higher, so that fifths become fourths, thirds sixths, etc.
(b) Said of a chord, when one of its notes, other than its root, is
made the bass.
(c) Said of a subject, or phrase, when the intervals of which it
consists are repeated in the contrary direction, rising instead of
falling, or vice versa.
(d) Said of double counterpoint, when an upper and a lower part
change places.

9. (Geol.)

Defn: The folding back of strata upon themselves, as by upheaval, in
such a manner that the order of succession appears to be reversed.

10. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process by which cane sugar (sucrose), under the
action of heat and acids or ferments (as diastase), is broken or
split up into grape sugar (dextrose), and fruit sugar (levulose);
also, less properly, the process by which starch is converted into
grape sugar (dextrose).

Note: The terms invert and inversion, in this sense, owe their
meaning to the fact that the plane of polarization of light, which is
rotated to the right by cane sugar, is turned toward the left by
levulose.

INVERT
In*vert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Inverted; p. pr. & vb. n. Inverting.]
Etym: [L. invertere, inversum; pref. in- in + vertere to turn. See
Verse.]

1. To turn over; to put upside down; to upset; to place in a contrary
order or direction; to reverse; as, to invert a cup, the order of
words, rules of justice, etc.
That doth invert the attest of eyes and ears, As if these organs had
deceptious functions. Shak.
Such reasoning falls like an inverted cone, Wanting its proper base
to stand upon. Cowper.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: To change the position of; -- said of tones which form a chord,
or parts which compose harmony.

3. To divert; to convert to a wrong use. [Obs.] Knolles.

4. (Chem.)

Defn: To convert; to reverse; to decompose by, or subject to,
inversion. See Inversion, n., 10.