

ISCHIAL
Is"chi*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ischium or hip; ischiac; ischiadic;
ischiatic. Ischial callosity (Zoöl.), one of the patches of thickened
hairless, and often bright-colored skin, on the buttocks of many
apes, as the drill.

ISCHIATIC
Is`chi*at"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Ishial.

ISCHIOCAPSULAR
Is`chi*o*cap"su*lar a. Etym: [Ischium + capsular.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ischium and the capsule of the hip
joint; as, the ischiocapsular ligament.

ISCHIOCERITE
Is`chi*o*ce"rite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The third joint or the antennæ of the Crustacea.

ISCHION; ISCHIUM
Is"chi*on, Is"chi*um, n. Etym: [L., Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The ventral and posterior of the three principal bones
composing either half of the pelvis; seat bone; the huckle bone.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the pleuræ of insects.

ISCHIOPODITE
Is`chi*op"o*dite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The third joint of the typical appendages of Crustacea.

ISCHIORECTAL
Is`chi*o*rec"tal, a. Etym: [Ischium + rectal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the region between the rectum and ishial
tuberosity.

ISCHURETIC
Is`chu*ret"ic, a.

Defn: Having the quality of relieving ischury.
 -- n.

Defn: An ischuretic medicine.

ISCHURY
Is"chu*ry, n. Etym: [L. ischuria, Gr. ischurie.] (Med.)

Defn: A retention or suppression of urine.

-ISE
-ise

Defn: . See -ize.

ISENTROPIC
I`sen*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Is- + entropy + -ic.] (Physics)

Defn: Having equal entropy. Isentropic lines, lines which pass
through points having equal entropy.

ISETHIONIC
I*seth`i*on"ic, a. Etym: [Is- + ethionic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid,
HO.C2H4.SO3H, obtained as an oily or crystalline substance, by the
action of sulphur trioxide on alcohol or ether. It is derivative of
sulphuric acid.

-ISH
-ish. Etym: [AS. -isc; akin to G. -isch, OHG. -isc, Goth. & Dan. -
isk, Gr. -esque.]

Defn: A suffix used to from adjectives from nouns and from
adjectives. It denotes relation, resemblance, similarity, and
sometimes has a diminutive force; as, selfish, boyish, brutish;
whitish, somewhat white.

-ISH
-ish. Etym: [OE. -issen, fr. F. -is, -iss- (found in the present
particle, etc., of certain verbs, as finir to finish, fleurir to
flourish), corresponding to L. -escere, an inchoative ending.]

Defn: A verb ending, originally appearing in certain verbs of French
origin; as, abolish, cherish, finish, furnish, garnish, impoverish.

ISHMAELITE
Ish"ma*el*ite, n.

1. A descendant of Ishmael (the son of Abraham and Hagar), of whom it
was said, "His hand will be against every man, and every man's hand
against him." Gen. xvi. 12.

2. One at enmity with society; a wanderer; a vagabond; an outcast.
Thackeray.

3. See Ismaelian.

ISHMAELITISH
Ish"ma*el*i`tish, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an Ishmaelite or the
Ishmaelites.

ISIAC
I"si*ac, a. Etym: [L. Isiacus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the goddess Isis; as, Isiac mysteries.

ISICLE
I"si*cle, n.

Defn: A icicle. [Obs.]

ISIDORIAN
Is`i*do"ri*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining, or ascribed, to Isidore; as, the Isidorian
decretals, a spurious collection of decretals published in the ninth
century.

ISINGLASS
I"sin*glass, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupted fr. D. huizenblas (akin to G.
hausenblase), lit., bladder of the huso, or large sturgeon; huizen
sturgeon + blas bladder. Cf. Bladder, Blast a gust of wind.]

1. A semitransparent, whitish, and very pure from of gelatin, chiefly
prepared from the sounds or air bladders of various species of
sturgeons (as the Acipenser huso) found in the of Western Russia. It
used for making jellies, as a clarifier, etc. Cheaper forms of
gelatin are not unfrequently so called. Called also fish glue.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A popular name for mica, especially when in thin sheets.

ISIS
I"sis, n. Etym: [L., the goddess Isis, fr. Gr.

1. (Myth.)

Defn: The principal goddess worshiped by the Egyptians. She was
regarded as the mother of Horus, and the sister and wife of Osiris.
The Egyptians adored her as the goddess of fecundity, and as the
great benefactress of their country, who instructed their ancestors
in the art of agriculture.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any coral of the genus Isis, or family Isidæ, composed of
joints of white, stony coral, alternating with flexible, horny
joints. See Gorgoniacea.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the asteroids.

ISLAM
Is"lam, n. Etym: [Ar. islam obedience to the will of God, submission,
humbling one's self, resigning one's self to the divine disposal. Cf.
Moslem.]

1. The religion of the Mohammedans; Mohammedanism; Islamism. Their
formula of faith is: There is no God but Allah, and Mohammed is his
prophet.

2. The whole body of Mohammedans, or the countries which they occupy.

ISLAMISM
Is"lam*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. islamisme.]

Defn: The faith, doctrines, or religious system of the Mohammedans;
Mohammedanism; Islam.

ISLAMITE
Is"lam*ite, n.

Defn: A Mohammedan.

ISLAMITIC
Is`lam*it"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Islam; Mohammedan.

ISLAMIZE
Is"lam*ize, v. i. & t. [imp. & p. p. Islamized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Islamizing.]

Defn: To conform, or cause to conform, to the religion of Islam.

ISLAND
Is"land, n. Etym: [OE. iland, yland, AS. igland, , ; ig, , island +
land, lond, land. AS. ig, , is akin to AS. eá water, river, OHG. , G.
au meadow, Icel. ey island, Dan. & Sw. ö, Goth. ahwa a stream, water,
L. aqua water. The s is due to confusion with isle. Cf. Ait, Eyot,
Ewer, Aquatic.]

1. A tract of land surrounded by water, and smaller than a continent.
Cf. Continent.

2. Anything regarded as resembling an island; as, an island of ice.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Isle, n., 2. Islands of the blessed (Myth.), islands
supposed to lie in the Western Ocean, where the favorites of the gods
are conveyed at death, and dwell in everlasting joy.

ISLAND
Is"land, v. t.

1. To cause to become or to resemble an island; to make an island or
islands of; to isle. Shelley.

2. To furnish with an island or with islands; as, to island the deep.
Southey.

ISLANDER
Is"land*er, n.

Defn: An inhabitant of an island.

ISLANDY
Is"land*y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to islands; full of islands. Cotgrave.

ISLE
Isle, n. Etym: [Obs.]

Defn: See Aisle.

ISLE
Isle, n. Etym: [OF. isle, F. île, L. insula; cf. Lith. sala. Cf.
Insulate.]

1. An island. [Poetic]
Imperial rule of all the seagirt isles. Milton.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spot within another of a different color, as upon the wings
of some insects.

ISLE
Isle, v. t.

Defn: To cause to become an island, or like an island; to surround or
encompass; to island. [Poetic]
Isled in sudden seas of light. Tennyson.

ISLET
Is"let, n. Etym: [OF. islette (cf. F. îlot), dim. of isle.]

Defn: A little island.

-ISM
-ism. Etym: [F. -isme, or L. -ismus, Gr.

Defn: A suffix indicating an act, a process, the result of an act or
a process, a state; also, a characteristic (as a theory, doctrine,
idiom, etc.); as, baptism, galvanism, organism, hypnotism, socialism,
sensualism, Anglicism.

ISM
Ism, n. Etym: [See ism, above.]

Defn: A doctrine or theory; especially, a wild or visionary theory.
E. Everett.
The world grew light-headed, and forth came a spawn of isms which no
man can number. S. G. Goodrich.

ISMAELIAN; ISMAELITE
Is`ma*e"li*an, Is"ma*el*ite, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of a sect of Mohammedans who favored the pretensions of the
family of Mohammed ben Ismael, of the house Ali.

ISO-; IS-
I"so-, Is-.Etym: [Gr. 'i`sos equal.]

Defn: A prefix or combining form, indicating identity, or equality;
the same numerical value; as in isopod, isomorphous, isochromatic.
Specif.:
(a) (Chem.) Applied to certain compounds having the same composition
but different properties; as in isocyanic.
(b) (Organic Chem.) Applied to compounds of certain isomeric series
in whose structure one carbon atom, at least, is connected with three
other carbon atoms; -- contrasted with neo- and normal; as in
isoparaffine; isopentane.

ISOBAR
I"so*bar, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting or marking places upon the surface of the
earth where height of the barometer reduced to sea level is the same
either at a given time, or for a certain period (mean height), as for
a year; an isopiestic line. [Written also isobare.]

ISOBAR
I"so*bar, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being equal in weight, especially in
atmospheric pressure. Also, the theory, method, or application of
isobaric science.

ISOBARIC
I`so*bar"ic, a. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: Denoting equal pressure; as, an isobaric line; specifically, of
or pertaining to isobars.

ISOBARISM
I"so*bar*ism, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being equal in weight, especially in
atmospheric pressure. Also, the theory, method, or application of
isobaric science.

ISOBAROMETRIC
I`so*bar`o*met"ric, a. Etym: [Iso + barometric.] (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: Indicating equal barometric pressure.

ISOBATHYTHERM
I`so*bath"y*therm, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting the points on the surface of the earth where
a certain temperature is found at the same depth.

ISOBATHYTHERMIC
I`so*bath"y*ther"mic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an isobathytherm; possessing or indicating
the same temperature at the same depth.

ISOBRONT
I"so*bront (i"so*bront), n.  [Iso- + Gr. bronth` thunder.] (Meteor.)

Defn: An imaginary line, or a line on a chart, marking the
simultaneous development of a thunderstorm, as noted by observing the
time when the thunder is heard at different places.

ISOCEPHALISM
I`so*ceph"a*lism, n. Etym: [From Gr. Iso-, and Cephalon.] (Art)

Defn: A peculiarity in the design of bas-relief by which the heads of
human figures are kept at the same height from the ground, whether
the personages are seated, standing, or mounted on horseback; --
called also isokephaleia.

ISOCHASM
I"so*chasm, n. Etym: [Iso- + chasm.] (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting places on the earth's surface at which there
is the same mean frequency of auroras.

ISOCHASMIC
I`so*chas"mic, a.

Defn: Indicating equal auroral display; as, an isochasmic line.

ISOCHEIM
I"so*cheim, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting places on the earth having the same mean
winter temperature. Cf. Isothere.

ISOCHEIMAL; ISOCHIMAL
I`so*chei"mal, I`so*chi"mal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, having the nature of, or making, isocheims; as,
an isocheimal line; an isocheimal chart.

ISOCHEIMENAL; ISOCHIMENAL
I`so*chei"me*nal, I`so*chi"me*nal a.

Defn: The same as Isocheimal.

ISOCHEIMIC
I`so*chei"mic, a.

Defn: The same as Isocheimal.

ISOCHIMENE
I`so*chi"mene, n.

Defn: The same as Isocheim.

ISOCHOR
I"so*chor, n.  [Iso- + Gr. xhw`ra space.] (Physics)

Defn: A line upon a thermodynamic diagram so drawn as to represent
the pressures corresponding to changes of temperature when the volume
of the gas operated on is constant. -- I`so*chor"ic (#), a.

ISOCHROMATIC
I`so*chro*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + chromatic.] (Opt.)

Defn: Having the same color; connecting parts having the same color,
as lines drawn through certain points in experiments on the chromatic
effects of polarized light in crystals.

ISOCHRONAL
I*soch"ro*nal, a. Etym: [See Isochronous.]

Defn: Uniform in time; of equal time; performed in equal times;
recurring at regular intervals; isochronal vibrations or
oscillations.

ISOCHRONIC
I`so*chron"ic, a.

Defn: Isochronal.

ISOCHRONISM
I*soch"ro*nism, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being isochronous.

ISOCHRONIZE
I*soch"ro*nize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -nized; p. pr. & vb. n. -
nizing.] [See Isochronous.]

Defn: To make, or tend to make (the motion of a moving body), uniform
in rate of rotation, or in frequency of vibration.

ISOCHRONON
I*soch"ro*non, n. Etym: [NL. See Isochronous.]

Defn: A clock that is designed to keep very accurate time.

ISOCHRONOUS
I*soch"ro*nous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Same as Isochronal.

ISOCHROOUS
I*soch"ro*ous, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.

Defn: Having the same tint or color throughout; uniformly or evenly
colored.

ISOCLINAL; ISOCLINIC
I`so*cli"nal, I`so*clin"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or indicating, equality of inclination or
dip; having equal inclination or dip. Isoclinal lines (Magnetism),
lines on the earth's surface connecting places at which a dipping
needle indicates the same inclination or dip.

ISOCRYMAL
I`so*cry"mal, a. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: Pertaining to, having the nature of, or illustrating, an
isocryme; as, an isocrymal line; an isocrymal chart.

ISOCRYME
I"so*cryme, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the same
mean temperature in the coldest month of the year.

ISOCRYMIC
I`so*crym"ic, a.

Defn: Isocrymal.

ISOCYANIC
I`so*cy*an"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + cyanic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Designating an acid isomeric with cyanic acid. Isocyanic acid,
an acid metameric with cyanic acid, and resembling it in its salts.
It is obtained as a colorless, mobile, unstable liquid by the heating
cyanuric acid. Called technically carbimide.

ISOCYANURIC
I`so*cy`a*nu"ric, a. Etym: [Iso- + cyanuric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, an acid isomeric with cyanuric
acid, and called also fulminuric acid. See under Fulminuric.

ISODIABATIC
I`so*di`a*bat"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Pertaining to the reception or the giving out of equal
quantities of heat by a substance. Rankine. Isodiabatic lines or
curves, a pair of lines or curves exhibiting, on a diagram of energy,
the law of variation of the pressure and density of a fluid, the one
during the lowering, and the other during the raising, of its
temperature, when the quantity of heat given out by the fluid during
any given stage of the one process is equal to the quantity received
during the corresponding stage of the other. Such lines are said to
be isodiabatic with respect to each other. Compare Adiabatic.

ISODIAMETRIC
I`so*di`a*met"ric, a. Etym: [Iso- + diametric.]

1. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Developed alike in the directions of the several lateral axes;
-- said of crystals of both the tetragonal and hexagonal systems.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the several diameters nearly equal; -- said of the cells
of ordinary parenchyma.

ISODIMORPHIC
I`so*di*mor"phic, a. Etym: [Iso- + dimorphic.]

Defn: Isodimorphous.

ISODIMORPHISM
I`so*di*mor"phism, n.

Defn: Isomorphism between the two forms severally of two dimorphous
substances.

ISODIMORPHOUS
I`so*di*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Iso- + dimorphous.]

Defn: Having the quality of isodimorphism.

ISODROME
I"so*drome, n.  [Iso- + Gr.  course.] (Nav.)

Defn: A method of moving a fleet from one formation to another, the
direction usually being changed eight points (90º), by means of paths
of equal length for each ship. It is prohibited in the United States
navy.

ISODULCITE
I`so*dul"cite, n. Etym: [Iso- + dulcite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, sugarlike substance, obtained by the
decomposition of certain glucosides, and intermediate in nature
between the hexacid alcohols (ductile, mannite, etc.) and the
glucoses.

ISODYNAMIC
I`so*dy*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + dynamic.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, having, or denoting, equality of force.
Isodynamic foods (Physiol.), those foods that produce a similar
amount of heat.
 -- Isodynamic lines (Magnetism), lines on the earth's surface
connecting places at which the magnetic intensity is the same.

ISODYNAMOUS
I`so*dy"na*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. Isodynamic.]

Defn: Of equal force or size.

ISOGEOTHERM
I`so*ge"o*therm, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. gh^ the earth + qe`rmh heat.]
(Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line or curved surface passing beneath the earth's surface
through points having the same mean temperature.

ISOGEOTHERMAL; ISOGEOTHERMIC
I`so*ge`o*ther"mal, I`so*ge`o*ther"mic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, having the nature of, or marking, isogeotherms;
as, an isogeothermal line or surface; as isogeothermal chart.
 -- n.

Defn: An isogeotherm.

ISOGONIC
I`so*gon"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or noting, equal angles. Isogonic lines
(Magnetism), lines traced on the surface of the globe, or upon a
chart, connecting places at which the deviation of the magnetic
needle from the meridian or true north is the same.

ISOGONIC
I`so*gon"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Characterized by isogonism.

ISOGONISM
I*sog"o*nism, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The quality of having similar sexual zooids or gonophores and
dissimilar hydrants; -- said of certain hydroids.

ISOGRAPHIC
I`so*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to isography.

ISOGRAPHY
I*sog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Iso- + -graphy.]

Defn: Imitation of another's handwriting,

ISOHYETOSE
I`so*hy"e*tose`, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. "yeto`s rain.] (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to lines connecting places on the earth's
surface which have a mean annual rainfall.
 -- n.

Defn: An isohyetose line.

ISOLABLE
I"so*la*ble, a. Etym: [See Isolate.] (Chem.)

Defn: Capable of being isolated, or of being obtained in a pure
state; as, gold is isolable.

ISOLATE
I"so*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Isolated; p. pr. & vb. n. Isolating.]
Etym: [It. isolato, p. p. of isolare to isolate, fr. isola island, L.
insula. See 2d Isle, and cf. Insulate.]

1. To place in a detached situation; to place by itself or alone; to
insulate; to separate from others.
Short isolated sentences were the mode in which ancient wisdom
delighted to convey its precepts. Bp. Warburton.

2. (Elec.)

Defn: To insulate. See Insulate.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: To separate from all foreign substances; to make pure; to
obtain in a free state.

ISOLATED
I"so*la`ted, a.

Defn: Placed or standing alone; detached; separated from others.
Isolated point of a curve. (Geom.) See Acnode.

ISOLATEDLY
I"so*la`ted*ly, adv.

Defn: In an isolated manner.

ISOLATION
I`so*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. isolation.]

Defn: The act of isolating, or the state of being isolated;
insulation; separation; loneliness. Milman.

ISOLATOR
I"so*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, isolates.

ISOLOGOUS
I*sol"o*gous, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Having similar proportions, similar relations, or similar
differences of composition; -- said specifically of groups or series
which differ by a constant difference; as, ethane, ethylene, an
acetylene, or their analogous compounds, form an isologous series.

ISOMER
I"so*mer, n. Etym: [See Isomeric.] (Chem.)

Defn: A body or compound which is isomeric with another body or
compound; a member of an isomeric series.

ISOMERE
I"so*mere, n. [Iso- + -mere.] (Zoöl.)

1. A homologous or corresponding part or segment.

2.  (Chem.) = Isomer.

ISOMERIC
I`so*mer"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. isomérique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Having the same percentage composition; -- said of two or more
different substances which contain the same ingredients in the same
proportions by weight, often used with with. Specif.: (a) Polymeric;
i. e., having the same elements united in the same proportion by
weight, but with different molecular weights; as, acetylene and
benzine are isomeric (polymeric) with each other in this sense. See
Polymeric. (b) Metameric; i. e., having the same elements united in
the same proportions by weight, and with the same molecular weight,
but which a different structure or arrangement of the ultimate parts;
as, ethyl alcohol and methyl ether are isomeric (metameric) with each
other in this sense. See Metameric.

ISOMERIDE
I*som"er*ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An isomer. [R.]

ISOMERISM
I*som"er*ism, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The state, quality, or relation, of two or more isomeric
substances. Physical isomerism (Chem.), the condition or relation of
certain (metameric) substances, which, while chemically identical (in
that they have the same composition, the same molecular weights, and
the same ultimate constitution), are yet physically different, as in
their action on polarized light, as dextro- and lævo-tartaric acids.
In such compounds there is usually at least one unsymmetrical carbon
atom. See Unsymmetrical.

ISOMEROMORPHISM
I`so*mer`o*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Isomer + Gr. ism.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: Isomorphism between substances that are isomeric.

ISOMETRIC; ISOMETRICAL
I`so*met"ric, I`so*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.

1. Pertaining to, or characterized by, equality of measure.

2. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Noting, or conforming to, that system of crystallization in
which the three axes are of equal length and at right angles to each
other; monometric; regular; cubic. Cf. Crystallization. Isometric
lines (Thermodynamics), lines representing in a diagram the relations
of pressure and temperature in a gas, when the volume remains
constant.
 -- Isometrical perspective. See under Perspective.
 -- Isometrical projection, a species of orthographic projection, in
which but a single plane of projection is used. It is so named from
the fact that the projections of three equal lines, parallel
respectively to three rectangular axes, are equal to one another.
This kind of projection is principally used in delineating buildings
or machinery, in which the principal lines are parallel to three
rectangular axes, and the principal planes are parallel to three
rectangular planes passing through the three axes.

ISOMORPH
I"so*morph, n. Etym: [See Isomorphous.]

Defn: A substance which is similar to another in crystalline form and
composition.

ISOMORPHIC
I`so*mor"phic, a.

Defn: Isomorphous.

ISOMORPHISM
I`so*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. isomorphisme.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A similarity of crystalline form between substances of similar
composition, as between the sulphates of barium (BaSO4) and strontium
(SrSO4). It is sometimes extended to include similarity of form
between substances of unlike composition, which is more properly
called homoeomorphism.

ISOMORPHOUS
I`so*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Iso- + -morphous.]

Defn: Having the quality of isomorphism.

ISONANDRA
I`so*nan"dra, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of sapotaceous trees of India. Isonandra Gutta is the
principal source of gutta-percha.

ISONEPHELIC
I`so*ne*phel"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: Having, or indicating, an equal amount of cloudiness for a
given period; as, isonephelic regions; an isonephelic line.

ISONICOTINE
I`so*nic"o*tine, n. Etym: [Iso- + nicotine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline, nitrogenous base, C10H14N2, isomeric with
nicotine.

ISONICOTINIC
I`so*nic`o*tin"ic, a. (Chem.)
(a) Pertaining to, or derived from, isonicotine.
(b) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid isomeric with nicotinic
acid.

ISONITROSO-
I`so*ni*tro"so-. Etym: [Iso- + nitroso-.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combining from (also used adjectively), signifying:
Pertaining to, or designating, the characteristic, nitrogenous
radical, NOH, called the isonitroso group.

ISONOMIC
I`so*nom"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The same, or equal, in law or right; one in kind or origin;
analogous; similar. Dana.

ISONOMY
I*son"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. isonomie. See Isonomic.]

Defn: Equal law or right; equal distribution of rights and
privileges; similarity.

ISOPATHY
I*sop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Med.)
(a) The system which undertakes to cure a disease by means of the
virus of the same disease.
(b) The theory of curing a diseased organ by eating the analogous
organ of a healthy animal. Mayne.
(c) The doctrine that the power of therapeutics is equal to that of
the causes of disease.

ISOPEPSIN
I`so*pep"sin, n. Etym: [Iso- + pepsin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pepsin modified by exposure to a temperature of from 40º to 60º
C.

ISOPERIMETRICAL
I`so*per`i*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Gr. isopérimètre. See Perimeter.]
(Geom.)

Defn: Having equal perimeters of circumferences; as, isoperimetrical
figures or bodies.

ISOPERIMETRY
I`so*per*im"e*try, n. (Geom.)

Defn: The science of figures having equal perimeters or boundaries.

ISOPIESTIC
I`so*pi*es"tic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Thermodynamics)

Defn: Having equal pressure. Isopiestic lines, lines showing, in a
diagram, the relations of temperature and volume, when the elastic
force is constant; -- called also isobars.

ISOPLEURA
I`so*pleu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Iso-, and Pleura.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A subclass of Gastropoda, in which the body is symmetrical, the
right and left sides being equal.

Note: The intestine terminates at the posterior end of the body, and
the gills and circulatory and reproductive organs are paired. It
includes the chitons (Polyplacophora), together with Neomenia and
Chætoderma, which are wormlike forms without a shell.

ISOPOD
I"so*pod, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the legs similar in structure; belonging to the Isopoda.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Isopoda.

ISOPODA
I*sop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Iso-, and -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of sessile-eyed Crustacea, usually having seven pairs
of legs, which are all similar in structure.

Note: The body is usually depressed, with the abdominal segments
short, and often consolidated in part. The branchiæ are on the
abdominal appendages. The group includes the terrestrial pill bugs
and sow bugs, with numerous marine forms. See Arthrostrata, Gribble.

ISOPODIFORM
I`so*pod"i*form, a. Etym: [Isopod + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the shape of an isopod; -- said of the larvæ of certain
insects.

ISOPODOUS
I*sop"o*dous, a.

Defn: Same as Isopod.

ISOPOGONOUS
I`so*pog"o*nous, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the two webs equal in breath; -- said of feathers.

ISOPRENE
I"so*prene, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oily, volatile hydrocarbon, obtained by the distillation of
caoutchouc or guttaipercha.C5H8 -- unsaturated, and used to make
synthetic rubber by polymerization. In organic chemistry, viewed
conceptually as the building block of the terpene series of
hydrocarbons

ISOPYCNIC
I`so*pyc"nic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. pykno`s dense.] (Physics)

Defn: Having equal density, as different regions of a medium; passing
through points at which the density is equal; as, an isopycnic line
or surface.

ISOPYCNIC
I`so*pyc"nic, n. (Physics)

Defn: A line or surface passing through those points in a medium, at
which the density is the same.

ISORCIN
I*sor"cin, n. Etym: [Iso- + orcin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline hydrocarbon derivative, metameric with orcin, but
produced artificially; -- called also cresorcin.

ISORROPIC
I`sor*rop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. 'iso`rropos in equipoise; 'i`sos equal +
"roph` downward inclination or momentum.]

Defn: Of equal value. Isorropic line (in a diagram) (Geom.), the
locus of all the points for which a specified function has a constant
value. Newcomb.

ISOSCELES
I*sos"ce*les, a. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. 'i`sos equal + (Geom.)

Defn: Having two legs or sides that are equal; -- said of a triangle.

ISOSPONDYLI
I`so*spon"dy*li, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. 'i`sos equal + (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive order of fishes, including the salmons, herrings,
and many allied forms.

ISOSPONDYLOUS
I`so*spon"dy*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Isospondyli; having the anterior
vertebræ separate and normal.

ISOSPORE
I"so*spore, n. (Biol.)
 (a) One of the spores produced by an isosporous organism.
 (b) A zygospore.

ISOSPORIC
I`so*spor"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns and Equiseta. Cf.
Heterosporic.

ISOSPOROUS
I*sos"po*rous, a.  [Iso- + Gr.  fruit.] (Biol.)

Defn: Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns.

ISOSTASY
I*sos"ta*sy, n. [See Iso-; Stasis.]

Defn: The state or quality of being isostatic. Specif. (Geol.),

Defn: general equilibrium in the earth's crust, supposed to be
maintained by the yielding or flow of rock material beneath the
surface under gravitative stress. By the theory of isostasy each unit
column of the earth, from surface to center, has approximately the
same weight, and the continents stand higher than the ocean beds
chiefly because the material of the crust has there less density.

ISOSTATIC
I`so*stat"ic, a.  [Iso- + static.] (Physics & Geol.)

Defn: Subjected to equal pressure from every side; being in
hydrostatic equilibrium, as a body submerged in a liquid at rest;
pertaining to, or characterized by, isostasy.

ISOSTEMONOUS
I`so*stem"o*nous, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having exactly as many stamens as petals.

ISOSTEMONY
I`so*stem"o*ny, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The quality or state of being isostemonous.

ISOSULPHOCYANATE
I`so*sul`pho*cy"a*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of isosulphocyanic acid.

ISOSULPHOCYANIC
I`so*sul`pho*cy*an"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, HNCS, isomeric with
sulphocyanic acid.

ISOTHERAL
I*soth"er*al, a.

Defn: Having the nature of an isothere; indicating the distribution
of temperature by means of an isothere; as, an isotheral chart or
line.

ISOTHERE
I"so*there, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the same
mean summer temperature.

ISOTHERM
I"so*therm, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surface
having the same temperature. This may be the temperature for a given
time of observation, or the mean temperature for a year or other
period. Also, a similar line based on the distribution of temperature
in the ocean.

ISOTHERMAL
I`so*ther"mal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. isotherme.]
(a) Relating to equality of temperature.
(b) (Phys. Geog.) Having reference to the geographical distribution
of temperature, as exhibited by means of isotherms; as, an isothermal
line; an isothermal chart. Isothermal line. (a) An isotherm. (b) A
line drawn on a diagram of energy such that its ordinates represent
the pressures of a substance corresponding to various volumes, while
the absolute temperature is maintained at a constant value.
 -- Isothermal zones, spaces on opposite sides of the equator having
the same mean temperature, and bounded by corresponding isothermal
lines.

ISOTHERMOBATH
I`so*ther"mo*bath, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Phys. Geog)

Defn: A line drawn through points of equal temperature in a vertical
section of the ocean.

ISOTHERMOBATHIC
I`so*ther`mo*bath"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an isothermobath; possessing or indicating
equal temperatures in a vertical section, as of the ocean.

ISOTHEROMBROSE
I*soth`er*om"brose, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. qe`ros summer + 'o`mbros
rain.] (Phys. Geog)

Defn: A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surface,
which have the same mean summer rainfall.

ISOTONIC
I`so*ton"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + tonic.]

Defn: Having or indicating, equal tones, or tension. Isotonic system
(Mus.), a system consisting of intervals, in which each concord is
alike tempered, and in which there are twelve equal semitones.

ISOTRIMORPHIC
I`so*tri*mor"phic, a.

Defn: Isotrimorphous.

ISOTRIMORPHISM
I`so*tri*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.

Defn: Isomorphism between the three forms, severally, of two
trimorphous substances.

ISOTRIMORPHOUS
I`so*tri*mor"phous, a.

Defn: Having the quality of isotrimorphism; isotrimorphic.

ISOTROPIC
I`so*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Having the same properties in all directions; specifically,
equally elastic in all directions.

ISOTROPISM
I*sot"ro*pism, n.

Defn: Isotropy.

ISOTROPOUS
I*sot"ro*pous, a.

Defn: Isotropic.

ISOTROPY
I*sot"ro*py, n. (Physics)

Defn: Uniformity of physical properties in all directions in a body;
absence of all kinds of polarity; specifically, equal elasticity in
all directions.

ISOURIC
I`so*u"ric, a. Etym: [Iso- + uric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid,
isomeric with uric acid.

ISRAELITE
Is"ra*el*ite, n. Etym: [L. Israëlites, Gr. Yisra, i. e., champion of
God; sarah to fight + God.]

Defn: A descendant of Israel, or Jacob; a Hebrew; a Jew.

ISRAELITIC; ISRAELITISH
Is`ra*el*it"ic, Is"ra*el*i`tish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Israel, or to the Israelites; Jewish;
Hebrew.

ISSUABLE
Is"su*a*ble, a. Etym: [From Issue.]

1. Leading to, producing, or relating to, an issue; capable of being
made an issue at law. Burrill.

2. Lawful or suitable to be issued; as, a writ issuable on these
grounds. Issuable plea (Law), a plea to the merits, on which the
adverse party may take issue and proceed to trial.

ISSUABLY
Is"su*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an issuable manner; by way of issue; as, to plead issuably.

ISSUANCE
Is"su*ance, n.

Defn: The act of issuing, or giving out; as, the issuance of an
order; the issuance of rations, and the like.

ISSUANT
Is"su*ant, a. (Her.)

Defn: Issuing or coming up; -- a term used to express a charge or
bearing rising or coming out of another.

ISSUE
Is"sue, n. Etym: [OF. issue, eissue, F. issue, fr. OF. issir, eissir,
to go out, L. exire; ex out of, from + ire to go, akin to Gr. i.,
Goth. iddja went, used as prefect of gaggan to go. Cf. Ambition,
Count a nobleman, Commence, Errant, Exit, Eyre, Initial, Yede went.]

1. The act of passing or flowing out; a moving out from any inclosed
place; egress; as, the issue of water from a pipe, of blood from a
wound, of air from a bellows, of people from a house.

2. The act of sending out, or causing to go forth; delivery;
issuance; as, the issue of an order from a commanding officer; the
issue of money from a treasury.

3. That which passes, flows, or is sent out; the whole quantity sent
forth or emitted at one time; as, an issue of bank notes; the daily
issue of a newspaper.

4. Progeny; a child or children; offspring. In law, sometimes, in a
general sense, all persons descended from a common ancestor; all
lineal descendants.
If the king Should without issue die. Shak.

5. Produce of the earth, or profits of land, tenements, or other
property; as, A conveyed to B all his right for a term of years, with
all the issues, rents, and profits.

6. A discharge of flux, as of blood. Matt. ix. 20.

7. (Med.)

Defn: An artificial ulcer, usually made in the fleshy part of the arm
or leg, to produce the secretion and discharge of pus for the relief
of some affected part.

8. The final outcome or result; upshot; conclusion; event; hence,
contest; test; trial.
Come forth to view The issue of the exploit. Shak.
While it is hot, I 'll put it to the issue. Shak.

9. A point in debate or controversy on which the parties take
affirmative and negative positions; a presentation of alternatives
between which to choose or decide.

10. (Law)

Defn: In pleading, a single material point of law or fact depending
in the suit, which, being affirmed on the one side and denied on the
other, is presented for determination. See General issue, under
General, and Feigned issue, under Feigned. Blount. Cowell. At issue,
in controversy; disputed; opposing or contesting; hence, at variance;
disagreeing; inconsistent.
As much at issue with the summer day As if you brought a candle out
of doors. Mrs. Browning.
-- Bank of issue, Collateral issue, etc. See under Bank, Collateral,
etc.
 -- Issue pea, a pea, or a similar round body, used to maintain
irritation in a wound, and promote the secretion and discharge of
pus.
 -- To join, or take, issue, to take opposing sides in a matter in
controversy.

ISSUE
Is"sue, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Issued; p. pr. & vb. n. Issuing.]

1. To pass or flow out; to run out, as from any inclosed place.
From it issued forced drops of blood. Shak.

2. To go out; to rush out; to sally forth; as, troops issued from the
town, and attacked the besiegers.

3. To proceed, as from a source; as, water issues from springs; light
issues from the sun.

4. To proceed, as progeny; to be derived; to be descended; to spring.
Of thy sons that shall issue from thee. 2 Kings xx. 18.

5. To extend; to pass or open; as, the path issues into the highway.

6. To be produced as an effect or result; to grow or accrue; to
arise; to proceed; as, rents and profits issuing from land,
tenements, or a capital stock.

7. To close; to end; to terminate; to turn out; as, we know not how
the cause will issue.

8. (Law)

Defn: In pleading, to come to a point in fact or law, on which the
parties join issue.

ISSUE
Is"sue, v. t.

1. To send out; to put into circulation; as, to issue notes from a
bank.

2. To deliver for use; as, to issue provisions.

3. To send out officially; to deliver by authority; as, to issue an
order; to issue a writ.

ISSUELESS
Is"sue*less, a.

Defn: Having no issue or progeny; childless. "The heavens . . . have
left me issueless." Shak.

ISSUER
Is"su*er, n.

Defn: One who issues, emits, or publishes.

-IST
-ist. Etym: [Gr. iste.]

Defn: A noun suffix denoting an agent, or doer, one who practices, a
believer in; as, theorist, one who theorizes; socialist, one who
holds to socialism; sensualist, one given to sensuality.

IS'T
Is't.

Defn: A contraction of is it.

ISTHMIAN
Isth"mi*an, a. Etym: [L. Isthmius, Gr. Isthmus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an isthmus, especially to the Isthmus of
Corinth, in Greece. Isthmian games (Gr. Antiq.), one of the four
great national festivals of Greece, celebrated on the Isthmus of
Corinth in the spring of every alternate year. They consisted of all
kinds of athletic sports, wrestling, boxing, racing on foot and in
chariots, and also contests in music and poetry. The prize was a
garland of pine leaves.

ISTHMUS
Isth"mus, n.; pl. Isthmuses. Etym: [L. isthmus, Gr. 'isqmo`s a neck,
a neck of land between two seas, an isthmus, especially the Isthmus
of Corinth; prob. from the root of 'ie`nai to go; cf. Icel. eiedh
isthmus. See Issue.] (Geog.)

Defn: A neck or narrow slip of land by which two continents are
connected, or by which a peninsula is united to the mainland; as, the
Isthmus of Panama; the Isthmus of Suez, etc. Isthmus of the fauces.
(Anat.) See Fauces.

ISTLE
Is"tle, n.

Defn: Same as Ixtle.

ISURET
I*su"ret, n. Etym: [Iso- + urea.] (Chem.)

Defn: An artificial nitrogenous base, isomeric with urea, and forming
a white crystalline substance; -- called also isuretine.

IT
It, pron. Etym: [OE. it, hit, AS. hit; cf. D. het. sq. root181. See
He.]

Defn: The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the
masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural
(they, their of theirs, them).

Note: The possessive form its is modern, being rarely found in the
writings of Shakespeare and Milton, and not at all in the original
King James's version of the Bible. During the transition from the
regular his to the anomalous its, it was to some extent employed in
the possessive without the case ending. See His, and He. In Dryden's
time its had become quite established as the regular form.
The day present hath ever inough to do with it owne grief. Genevan
Test.
Do, child, go to it grandam, child. Shak.
It knighthood shall do worse. It shall fright all it friends with
borrowing letters. B. Jonson.

Note: In the course of time, the nature of the neuter sign i in it,
the form being found in but a few words, became misunderstood.
Instead of being looked upon as an affix, it passed for part of the
original word. Hence was formed from it the anomalous genitive it,
superseding the Saxon his. Latham.
The fruit tree yielding fruit after his (its) kind. Gen. i. 11.
It is used, --

1. As a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the
book, take it home.

2. As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence,
pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or
referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it was
John.
It is I; be not afraid. Matt. xiv. 27.
Peter heard that it was the Lord. John xxi. 7.
Often, in such cases, as a substitute for a sentence or clause; as,
it is thought he will come; it is wrong to do this.

3. As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows;
it rains.

4. As a substitute for such general terms as, the state of affairs,
the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick
man
Think on me when it shall be well with thee. Gen. xl. 14.

5. As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a
substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to
walk).
The Lacedemonians, at the Straits of Thermopylæ, when their arms
failed them, fought it out with nails and teeth. Dryden.
Whether the charmer sinner it, or saint it, If folly grows romantic,
I must paint it. Pope.
Its self. See Itself.

ITACISM
I"ta*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. itacisme. See Etacism, and cf. Iotacism.]
(Greek Gram.)

Defn: Pronunciation of e in the English word be. This was the
pronunciation advocated by ReuEtacism.
In all such questions between a the confusing element of itacism
comes in. Alford.

ITACIST
I"ta*cist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. itaciste.]

Defn: One who is in favor of itacism.

ITACOLUMITE
It`a*col"u*mite, n. Etym: [From Itacolumi, a mountain of Brazil.]
(Min.)

Defn: A laminated, granular, siliceous rocks, often occurring in
regions where the diamond is found.

ITACONIC
It`a*con"ic, a. Etym: [From aconitic, by transposition of the
letters.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C5H6O4, which is
obtained as a white crystalline substance by decomposing aconitic and
other organic acids.

ITALA
It"a*la, n. Etym: [Fem. of L. Italus Italian.]

Defn: An early Latin version of the Scriptures (the Old Testament was
translated from the Septuagint, and was also called the Italic
version).

ITALIAN
I*tal"ian, a. Etym: [Cf. F. italien, It. italiano. Cf. Italic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Italy, or to its people or language.
Italian cloth a light material of cotton and worsted; -- called also
farmer's satin.
 -- Italian iron, a heater for fluting frills.
 -- Italian juice, Calabrian liquorice.

ITALIAN
I*tal"ian, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Italy.

2. The language used in Italy, or by the Italians.

ITALIANATE
I*tal"ian*ate, v. t. Etym: [Cf. It. italianare.]

Defn: To render Italian, or conformable to Italian customs; to
Italianize. [R.] Ascham.

ITALIANATE
I*tal"ian*ate, a.

Defn: Italianized; Italianated. "Apish, childish, and Italianate."
Marlowe.

ITALIANISM
I*tal"ian*ism, n.

1. A word, phrase, or idiom, peculiar to the Italians; an Italicism.

2. Attachment to, or sympathy for, Italy.

ITALIANIZE
I*tal"ian*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Italianized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Italianizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. italianiser, It. italianizzare.]

1. To play the Italian; to speak Italian. Cotgrave.

2. To render Italian in any respect; to Italianate. "An Englishman
Italianized." Lowell.

ITALIC
I*tal"ic, a. Etym: [L. Italicus: cf. F. italique. Cf. Italian.]

1. Relating to Italy or to its people.

2. Applied especially to a kind of type in which the letters do not
stand upright, but slope toward the right; -- so called because
dedicated to the States of Italy by the inventor, Aldus Manutius,
about the year 1500. Italic languages, the group or family of
languages of ancient Italy.
 -- Italic order (Arch.), the composite order. See Composite.
 -- Italic school, a term given to the Pythagorean and Eleatic
philosophers, from the country where their doctrines were first
promulgated.
 -- Italic version. See Itala.

ITALIC
I*tal"ic, n.; pl. Italics (. (Print.)

Defn: An Italic letter, character, or type (see Italic, a., 2.); --
often in the plural; as, the Italics are the author's. Italic letters
are used to distinguish words for emphasis, importance, antithesis,
etc. Also, collectively, Italic letters.

ITALICISM
I*tal"i*cism, n.

1. A phrase or idiom peculiar to the Italian language; to Italianism.

2. The use of Italics.

ITALICIZE
I*tal"i*cize, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Italicized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Italicizing.]

Defn: To print in Italic characters; to underline written letters or
words with a single line; as, to Italicize a word; Italicizes too
much.

ITA PALM
I"ta palm`. (Bot.)

Defn: A magnificent species of palm (Mauritia flexuosa), growing near
the Orinoco. The natives eat its fruit and buds, drink its sap, and
make thread and cord from its fiber.

ITCH
Itch, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Itched; p. pr. & vb. n. Itching.] Etym:
[OE. icchen, , AS. giccan; akin to D. jeuken, joken, G. jucken, OHG.
jucchen.]

1. To have an uneasy sensation in the skin, which inclines the person
to scratch the part affected.
My mouth hath itched all this long day. Chaucer.

2. To have a constant desire or teasing uneasiness; to long for; as,
itching ears. "An itching palm." Shak.

ITCH
Itch, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: An eruption of small, isolated, acuminated vesicles, produced
by the entrance of a parasitic mite (the Sarcoptes scabei), and
attended with itching. It is transmissible by contact.

2. Any itching eruption.

3. A sensation in the skin occasioned (or resembling that occasioned)
by the itch eruption; -- called also scabies, psora, etc.

4. A constant irritating desire.
An itch of being thought a divine king. Dryden.
Baker's itch. See under Baker.
 -- Barber's itch, sycosis.
 -- Bricklayer's itch, an eczema of the hands attended with much
itching, occurring among bricklayers.
 -- Grocer's itch, an itching eruption, being a variety of eczema,
produced by the sugar mite (Tyrogluphus sacchari).
 -- Itch insect (Zoöl.), a small parasitic mite (Sarcoptes scabei)
which burrows and breeds beneath the human skin, thus causing the
disease known as the itch. See Illust. in Append.
 -- Itch mite. (Zoöl.) Same as Itch insect, above. Also, other
similar mites affecting the lower animals, as the horse and ox.
 -- Sugar baker's itch, a variety of eczema, due to the action of
sugar upon the skin.
 -- Washerwoman's itch, eczema of the hands and arms, occurring among
washerwomen.

ITCHINESS
Itch"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being itchy.

ITCHLESS
Itch"less, a.

Defn: Free from itching.

ITCHY
Itch"y, a.

Defn: Infected with the itch, or with an itching sensation. Cowper.

-ITE
-ite. Etym: [From Gr.

1. A suffix denoting one of a party, a sympathizer with or adherent
of, and the like, and frequently used in ridicule; as, a Millerite; a
Benthamite.

2. A suffix used in naming minerals; as, chlorite, from its
characteristic green color; barite, from its heaviness; graphite,
from its use in writing.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: A suffix used to denote the salts formed from those acids whose
names end in -ous; as, sulphite, from sulphurous; nitrite, from
nitrous acid, etc.

ITEM
I"tem, adv. Etym: [L. See Iterate.]

Defn: Also; as an additional article.

ITEM
I"tem, n. Etym: [From Item, adv.]

1. An article; a separate particular in an account; as, the items in
a bill.

2. A hint; an innuendo. [Obs.]
A secret item was given to some of the bishops . . . to absent
themselves. Fuller.

3. A short article in a newspaper; a paragraph; as, an item
concerning the weather.

ITEM
I"tem, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Itemed; p. pr. & vb. n. Iteming.]

Defn: To make a note or memorandum of.
I have itemed it in my memory. Addison.

ITEMIZE
I"tem*ize, v. t.

Defn: To state in items, or by particulars; as, to itemize the cost
of a railroad. [Local, U. S.]

ITER
I"ter, n. Etym: [L. See Eyre.] (Anat.)

Defn: A passage; esp., the passage between the third and fourth
ventricles in the brain; the aqueduct of Sylvius.

ITERABLE
It"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. iterabilis. See Iterate.]

Defn: Capable of being iterated or repeated. [Obs.]

ITERANCE
It"er*ance, n.

Defn: Iteration. [Obs.]

ITERANT
It"er*ant, a. Etym: [L. iterans, p. pr. of iterare.]

Defn: Repeating; iterating; as, an iterant echo. Bacon.

ITERATE
It"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. iteratus, p. p. of iterare to repeat, fr.
iterum again, prop. a compar. from the stem of is he, that; cf. L.
ita so, item likewise, also, Skr. itara other, iti thus. Cf.
Identity, Item.]

Defn: Uttered or done again; repeated. [Obs.] Bp. Gardiner.

ITERATE
It"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Iterated; p. pr. & vb. n. Iterating.]

Defn: To utter or do a second time or many times; to repeat; as, to
iterate advice.
Nor Eve to iterate Her former trespass feared. Milton.

ITERATE
It"er*ate, adv.

Defn: By way of iteration.

ITERATION
It`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. iteratio.]

Defn: Recital or performance a second time; repetition. Bacon.
What needs this iteration, woman Shak.

ITERATIVE
It"er*a*tive, a. Etym: [L. iterativus: cf. F. itératif.]

Defn: Repeating. Cotgrave.
 -- It"er*a*tive*ly, adv.

ITHYPHALLIC
Ith`y*phal"lic, a. Etym: [L. ithyphallicus, fr. ithyphallus, Gr.
membrum virile erectum, or a figure thereof carried in the festivals
of Bacchus.]

Defn: Lustful; lewd; salacious; indecent; obscene.

ITINERACY
I*tin"er*a*cy, n.

Defn: The act or practice of itinerating; itinerancy.

ITINERANCY
I*tin"er*an*cy, n. Etym: [See Itinerant.]

1. A passing from place to place. Dr. H. More.

2. A discharge of official duty involving frequent change of
residence; the custom or practice of discharging official duty in
this way; also, a body of persons who thus discharge official duty.

ITINERANT
I*tin"er*ant, a. Etym: [LL. itinerans, -antis, p. pr. of itinerare to
make a journey, fr. L. iter, itineris, a walk, way, journey. See
Errant, Issue.]

Defn: Passing or traveling about a country; going or preaching on a
circuit; wandering; not settled; as, an itinerant preacher; an
itinerant peddler.
The king's own courts were then itinerant, being kept in the king's
palace, and removing with his household in those royal progresses
which he continually made. Blackstone.

ITINERANT
I*tin"er*ant, a.

Defn: One who travels from place to place, particularly a preacher;
one who is unsettled.
Glad to turn itinerant, To stroll and teach from town to town.
Hudibras.

ITINERANTLY
I*tin"er*ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an itinerant manner.

ITINERARY
I*tin"er*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. itinerarius: cf. F. itinéraire. See
Itinerant.]

Defn: Itinerant; traveling; passing from place to place; done on a
journey.
It was rather an itinerary circuit of justice than a progress. Bacon.

ITINERARY
I*tin"er*a*ry, n.; pl. Itineraries. Etym: [L. itinerarium: cf. F.
itinéraire. See Itinerary, a.]

Defn: An account of travels, or a register of places and distances as
a guide to travelers; as, the Itinerary of Antoninus.

ITINERATE
I*tin"er*ate. v. i. [imp. & p. p. Itinerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Itinerating.] Etym: [LL. itineratus, p. p. of itinerari, itinerare.
See Itinerant.]

Defn: To wander without a settled habitation; to travel from place or
on a circuit, particularly for the purpose of preaching, lecturing,
etc.

-ITIS
-i"tis, Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A suffix used in medical terms to denote an inflammatory
disease of; as, arthritis; bronchitis, phrenitis.

ITS
Its.

Defn: Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It.

ITSELF
It*self", pron.

Defn: The neuter reciprocal pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in
itself; it stands by itself.
Borrowing of foreigners, in itself, makes not the kingdom rich or
poor. Locke.

ITTRIA
It"tri*a, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Yttria.

ITTRIUM
It"tri*um, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Yttrium.

ITZIBU
It"zi*bu, n. Etym: [Jap. ichibu.] (Numis.)

Defn: A silver coin of Japan, worth about thirty-four cents. [Written
also itzebu, ichebu, itcheboo, etc.]

IULIDAN
I*u"li*dan, n. Etym: [See Iulus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Iulidæ, a family of myriapods, of which the genus
Iulus is the type. See Iulus.

IULUS
I*u"lus, n. Etym: [L., down, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of chilognathous myriapods. The body is long and round,
consisting of numerous smooth, equal segments, each of which bears
two pairs of short legs. It includes the galleyworms. See
Chilognatha.

IVAN IVANOVITCH
I*van" I*van"o*vitch

Defn: . An ideal personification of the typical Russian or of the
Russian people; -- used as "John Bull" is used for the typical
Englishman.

I'VE
I've

Defn: . Colloquial contraction of I have.

-IVE
-ive. Etym: [L. -ivus.]

Defn: An adjective suffix signifying relating or belonging to, of the
nature of, tending to; as affirmative, active, conclusive,
corrective, diminutive.

IVIED
I"vied, a. Etym: [From Ivy.]

Defn: Overgrown with ivy.

IVORIDE
I"vo*ride, n.

Defn: A composition resembling ivory in appearance and used as a
substitute for it.

IVORY
I"vo*ry, n.; pl. Ivories. Etym: [OE. ivori, F. ivoire, fr. L. eboreus
made of ivory, fr. ebur, eboris, ivory, cf. Skr. ibha elephant. Cf.
Eburnean.]

1. The hard, white, opaque, fine-grained substance constituting the
tusks of the elephant. It is a variety of dentine, characterized by
the minuteness and close arrangement of the tubes, as also by their
double flexure. It is used in manufacturing articles of ornament or
utility.

Note: Ivory is the name commercially given not only to the substance
constituting the tusks of the elephant, but also to that of the tusks
of the hippopotamus and walrus, the hornlike tusk of the narwhal,
etc.

2. The tusks themselves of the elephant, etc.

3. Any carving executed in ivory. Mollett.

4. pl.

Defn: Teeth; as, to show one's ivories. [Slang] Ivory black. See
under Black, n.
 -- Ivory gull (Zoöl.), a white Arctic gull (Larus eburneus).
 -- Ivory nut (Bot.), the nut of a species of palm, the Phytephas
macroarpa, often as large as a hen's egg. When young the seed
contains a fluid, which gradually hardness into a whitish, close-
grained, albuminous substance, resembling the finest ivory in texture
and color, whence it is called vegetable ivory. It is wrought into
various articles, as buttons, chessmen, etc. The palm is found in New
Grenada. A smaller kind is the fruit of the Phytephas microarpa. The
nuts are known in commerce as Corosso nuts.
 -- Ivory palm (Bot.), the palm tree which produces ivory nuts.
 -- Ivory shell (Zoöl.), any species of Eburna, a genus of marine
gastropod shells, having a smooth surface, usually white with red or
brown spots.
 -- Vegetable ivory, the meat of the ivory nut. See Ivory nut
(above).

IVORY-BILL
I"vo*ry-bill`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, handsome, North American woodpecker (Campephilus
principalis), having a large, sharp, ivory-colored beak. Its general
color is glossy black, with white secondaries, and a white dorsal
stripe. The male has a large, scarlet crest. It is now rare, and
found only in the Gulf States.

IVORYTYPE
I"vo*ry*type`, n. (photog.)

Defn: A picture produced by superposing a very light print, rendered
translucent by varnish, and tinted upon the back, upon a stronger
print, so as to give the effect of a photograph in natural colors; --
called also hellenotype. Knight.

IVY
I"vy, n.; pl. Ivies. Etym: [AS. ifig; akin to OHG. ebawi, ebah, G.
epheu.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Hedera (H. helix), common in Europe. Its
leaves are evergreen, dark, smooth, shining, and mostly five-pointed;
the flowers yellowish and small; the berries black or yellow. The
stem clings to walls and trees by rootlike fibers.
Direct The clasping ivy where to climb. Milton.
Ye myrtles brown, with ivy never sere. Milton.
American ivy. (Bot.) See Virginia creeper.
 -- English ivy (Bot.), a popular name in America for the ivy proper
(Hedera helix).
 -- German ivy (Bot.), a creeping plant, with smooth, succulent
stems, and fleshy, light-green leaves; a species of Senecio (S.
scandens).
 -- Ground ivy. (Bot.) Gill (Nepeta Glechoma).
 -- Ivy bush. (Bot.) See Mountain laurel, under Mountain.
 -- Ivy owl (Zoöl.), the barn owl.
 -- Ivy tod (Bot.), the ivy plant. Tennyson.
 -- Japanese ivy (Bot.), a climbing plant (Ampelopsis tricuspidata),
closely related to the Virginia creeper.
 -- Poison ivy (Bot.), an American woody creeper (Rhus
Toxicodendron), with trifoliate leaves, and greenish-white berries.
It is exceedingly poisonous to the touch for most persons.
 -- To pipe in an ivy leaf, to console one's self as best one can.
[Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- West Indian ivy, a climbing plant of the genus Marcgravia.

IVY-MANTLED
I"vy-man`tled, a.

Defn: Covered with ivy.

IWIS
I*wis", adv.

Defn: Indeed; truly. See Ywis. [Written also iwys, iwisse, etc.]
[Obs.] Ascham.

I. W. W.
I. W. W. (Abbrev.)

Defn: Industrial Workers of the World (the name of two American labor
organizations, one of which advocates syndicalism).

IXIA
Ix"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A South African bulbous plant of the Iris family, remarkable
for the brilliancy of its flowers.

IXODES
Ix*o"des, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of parasitic Acarina, which includes various species of
ticks. See Tick, the insect.

IXODIAN
Ix*o"di*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tick of the genus Ixodes, or the family Ixodidæ.

IXTLE; IXTLI
Ix"tle, Ix"tli, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A Mexican name for a variety of Agave rigida, which furnishes a
strong coarse fiber; also, the fiber itself, which is called also
pita, and Tampico fiber. [Written also istle.]

IXTLE; IXTIL
Ix"tle Ix"til, n.

Defn: The fine, soft fiber of the bromeliaceous plant Bromelia
sylvestris.

IZARD
Iz"ard, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A variety of the chamois found in the Pyrenees.

-IZE
-ize. Etym: [F. -iser, L. -izare, Gr.

Defn: A verb suffix signifying to make, to do, to practice; as
apologize, baptize, theorize, tyrannize.

Note: In the case of certain words the spelling with -ise (after
analogy with F. -iser) is the usual form; as, catechise, criticise.
With regard to most words, however, which have this suffix there is a
diversity of usage, some authorities spelling -ise, others (as in
this book) -ize.

IZEDI
Iz"e*di, n.

Defn: One of an Oriental religious sect which worships Satan or the
Devil.
The Izedis or Yezdis, the so-called Devil worshipers, still remain a
numerous though oppressed people in Mesopotamia and adjacent
countries. Tylor.

IZEDISM
Iz"e*dism, n.

Defn: The religion of the Izedis.

IZZARD
Iz"zard, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Izard.

IZZARD
Iz"zard, n. Etym: [Formerly ezed, prob. fr. F. et zÉde and z.]

Defn: The letter z; -- formerly so called.

J

Defn: . J is the tenth letter of the English alphabet. It is a later
variant form of the Roman letter I, used to express a consonantal
sound, that is, originally, the sound of English y in yet. The forms
J and I have, until a recent time, been classed together, and they
have been used interchangeably.

Note: In medical prescriptions j is still used in place of i at the
end of a number, as a Roman numeral; as, vj, xij. J is etymologically
most closely related to i, y, g; as in jot, iota; jest, gesture;
join, jugular, yoke. See I. J is a compound vocal consonant, nearly
equivalent in sound to dzh. It is exactly the same as g in gem. See
Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 179, 211, 239.

JAAL GOAT
Jaal" goat`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of wild goat (Capra Nubiana) found in the mountains
of Abyssinia, Upper Egypt, and Arabia; -- called also beden, and
jaela.

JAB
Jab, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Job.]

Defn: To thrust; to stab; to punch. See Job, v. t. [Scot. & Colloq.
U. S.]

JAB
Jab, n.

Defn: A thrust or stab. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.]

JABBER
Jab"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jabbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Jabbering.]
Etym: [Cf. Gibber, Gabble.]

Defn: To talk rapidly, indistinctly, or unintelligibly; to utter
gibberish or nonsense; to chatter. Swift.

JABBER
Jab"ber, v. t.

Defn: To utter rapidly or indistinctly; to gabble; as, to jabber
French. Addison.

JABBER
Jab"ber, n.

Defn: Rapid or incoherent talk, with indistinct utterance; gibberish.
Swift.

JABBER
Jab"ber, n.

Defn: One who jabbers.

JABBERER
Jab"ber*er, n.

Defn: One who jabbers.

JABBERINGLY
Jab"ber*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a jabbering manner.

JABBERMENT
Jab"ber*ment, n.

Defn: Jabber. [R.] Milton.

JABBERNOWL
Jab"ber*nowl`, n.

Defn: Same as Jobbernowl.

JABIRU
Jab"i*ru, n. Etym: [Braz. jabirú, jaburú.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several large wading birds of the genera Mycteria and
Xenorhynchus, allied to the storks in form and habits.

Note: The American jabiru (Mycteria Americana) is white, with the
head and neck black and nearly bare of feathers. The East Indian and
Australian (Xenorhynchus Australis) has the neck, head, and back
covered with glossy, dark green feathers, changing on the head to
purple. The African jabiru (Mycteria, or Ephippiorhynchus,
Senegalensis) has the neck, head, wing coverts, and tail, black, and
is called also saddle-billed stork.

JABORANDI
Jab`o*ran"di, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The native name of a South American rutaceous shrub (Pilocarpus
pennatifolius). The leaves are used in medicine as an diaphoretic and
sialogogue.

JABORINE
Jab"o*rine, n. Etym: [From Jaborandi.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid found in jaborandi leaves, from which it is
extracted as a white amorphous substance. In its action it resembles
atropine.

JABOT
Jab"ot, n. Etym: [F.]

1. Originally, a kind of ruffle worn by men on the bosom of the
shirt.

2. An arrangement of lace or tulle, looped ornamentally, and worn by
women on the front of the dress.

JACAL
Ja*cal" (hä*käl"; 239), n. [Amer. Sp., fr. Mex. xacalli.]

Defn: In Mexico and the southwestern United States, a kind of
plastered house or hut, usually made by planting poles or timber in
the ground, filling in between them with screen work or wickerwork,
and daubing one or both sides with mud or adobe mortar; also, this
method of construction.

JACAMAR
Jac"a*mar`, n. Etym: [F. jacamar, Braz. jacamarica; cf. Sp. jacamar.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of tropical American birds of the
genus Galbula and allied genera. They are allied to the kingfishers,
but climb on tree trunks like nuthatches, and feed upon insects.
Their colors are often brilliant.

JACANA
Jac"a*na`, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. jacania.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana and
several allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings. They are
able to run about over floating water weeds by means of their very
long, spreading toes. Called also surgeon bird.

Note: The most common South American species is Jacana spinosa. The
East Indian or pheasant jacana (Hydrophasianus chirurgus) is
remarkable for having four very long, curved, middle tail feathers.

JACARANDA
Jac`a*ran"da, n. Etym: [Braz.; cf. Sp. & Pg. jacaranda.] (Bot.)
(a) The native Brazilian name for certain leguminous trees, which
produce the beautiful woods called king wood, tiger wood, and violet
wood.
(b) A genus of bignoniaceous Brazilian trees with showy trumpet-
shaped flowers.

JACARE
Jac"a*re`, n. Etym: [Pg. jacaré; of Brazilian origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cayman. See Yacare.

JACCHUS
Jac"chus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. Jacchus a mystic name of Bacchus, Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The common marmoset (Hapale vulgaris). Formerly, the name was
also applied to other species of the same genus.

JACCONET
Jac"co*net, n.

Defn: See Jaconet.

JACENT
Ja"cent, a. Etym: [L. jacens, p. pr. of jacere to lie: cf. F.
jacent.]

Defn: Lying at length; as, the jacent posture. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.

JACINTH
Ja"cinth, n. Etym: [F. jacinthe, L. hyacinthus. See Hyacinth.]

Defn: See Hyacinth. Tennyson.

JACK
Jack, n. Etym: [Pg. jaca, Malayalam, tsjaka.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large tree, the Artocarpus integrifolia, common in the East
Indies, closely allied to the breadfruit, from which it differs in
having its leaves entire. The fruit is of great size, weighing from
thirty to forty pounds, and through its soft fibrous matter are
scattered the seeds, which are roasted and eaten. The wood is of a
yellow color, fine grain, and rather heavy, and is much used in
cabinetwork. It is also used for dyeing a brilliant yellow. [Written
also jak.]

JACK
Jack, n. Etym: [F. Jacques James, L. Jacobus, Gr. Ya 'aq Jacob;
prop., seizing by the heel; hence, a supplanter. Cf. Jacobite,
Jockey.]

1. A familiar nickname of, or substitute for, John.
You are John Rugby, and you are Jack Rugby. Shak.

2. An impertinent or silly fellow; a simpleton; a boor; a clown;
also, a servant; a rustic. "Jack fool." Chaucer.
Since every Jack became a gentleman, There 's many a gentle person
made a Jack. Shak.

3. A popular colloquial name for a sailor; -- called also Jack tar,
and Jack afloat.

4. A mechanical contrivance, an auxiliary machine, or a subordinate
part of a machine, rendering convenient service, and often supplying
the place of a boy or attendant who was commonly called Jack; as:
(a) A device to pull off boots.
(b) A sawhorse or sawbuck.
(c) A machine or contrivance for turning a spit; a smoke jack, or
kitchen jack.
(b) (Mining) A wooden wedge for separating rocks rent by blasting.
(e) (Knitting Machine) A lever for depressing the sinkers which push
the loops down on the needles.
(f) (Warping Machine) A grating to separate and guide the threads; a
heck box.
(g) (Spinning) A machine for twisting the sliver as it leaves the
carding machine.
(h) A compact, portable machine for planing metal.
(i) A machine for slicking or pebbling leather.
(k) A system of gearing driven by a horse power, for multiplying
speed.
(l) A hood or other device placed over a chimney or vent pipe, to
prevent a back draught.
(m) In the harpsichord, an intermediate piece communicating the
action of the key to the quill; -- called also hopper.
(n) In hunting, the pan or frame holding the fuel of the torch used
to attract game at night; also, the light itself. C. Hallock.

5. A portable machine variously constructed, for exerting great
pressure, or lifting or moving a heavy body through a small distance.
It consists of a lever, screw, rack and pinion, hydraulic press, or
any simple combination of mechanical powers, working in a compact
pedestal or support and operated by a lever, crank, capstan bar, etc.
The name is often given to a jackscrew, which is a kind of jack.

6. The small bowl used as a mark in the game of bowls. Shak.
Like an uninstructed bowler who thinks to attain the jack by
delivering his bowl straight forward upon it. Sir W. Scott.

7. The male of certain animals, as of the ass.

8. (Zoöl.)
(a) A young pike; a pickerel.
(b) The jurel.
(c) A large, California rock fish (Sebastodes paucispinus); -- called
also boccaccio, and mérou.
(d) The wall-eyed pike.

9. A drinking measure holding half a pint; also, one holding a
quarter of a pint. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

10. (Naut.)
(a) A flag, containing only the union, without the fly, usually
hoisted on a jack staff at the bowsprit cap; -- called also union
jack. The American jack is a small blue flag, with a star for each
State.
(b) A bar of iron athwart ships at a topgallant masthead, to support
a royal mast, and give spread to the royal shrouds; -- called also
jack crosstree. R. H. Dana, Jr.

11. The knave of a suit of playing cards.

Note: Jack is used adjectively in various senses. It sometimes
designates something cut short or diminished in size; as, a jack
timber; a jack rafter; a jack arch, etc. Jack arch, an arch of the
thickness of one brick.
 -- Jack back (Brewing & Malt Vinegar Manuf.), a cistern which
receives the wort. See under 1st Back.
 -- Jack block (Naut.), a block fixed in the topgallant or royal
rigging, used for raising and lowering light masts and spars.
 -- Jack boots, boots reaching above the knee; -- worn in the 17
century by soldiers; afterwards by fishermen, etc.
 -- Jack crosstree. (Naut.) See 10, b, above.
 -- Jack curlew (Zoöl.), the whimbrel.
 -- Jack frame. (Cotton Spinning) See 4 (g), above.
 -- Jack Frost, frost personified as a mischievous person.
 -- Jack hare, a male hare. Cowper.
 -- Jack lamp, a lamp for still hunting and camp use. See def. 4
(n.), above.
 -- Jack plane, a joiner's plane used for coarse work.
 -- Jack post, one of the posts which support the crank shaft of a
deep-well-boring apparatus.
 -- Jack pot (Poker Playing), the name given to the stakes,
contributions to which are made by each player successively, till
such a hand is turned as shall take the "pot," which is the sum total
of all the bets.
 -- Jack rabbit (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large American
hares, having very large ears and long legs. The California species
(Lepus Californicus), and that of Texas and New Mexico (L. callotis),
have the tail black above, and the ears black at the tip. They do not
become white in winter. The more northern prairie hare (L.
campestris) has the upper side of the tail white, and in winter its
fur becomes nearly white.
 -- Jack rafter (Arch.), in England, one of the shorter rafters used
in constructing a hip or valley roof; in the United States, any
secondary roof timber, as the common rafters resting on purlins in a
trussed roof; also, one of the pieces simulating extended rafters,
used under the eaves in some styles of building.
 -- Jack salmon (Zoöl.), the wall-eyed pike, or glasseye.
 -- Jack sauce, an impudent fellow. [Colloq. & Obs.] -- Jack shaft
(Mach.), the first intermediate shaft, in a factory or mill, which
receives power, through belts or gearing, from a prime mover, and
transmits it, by the same means, to other intermediate shafts or to a
line shaft.
 -- Jack sinker (Knitting Mach.), a thin iron plate operated by the
jack to depress the loop of thread between two needles.
 -- Jack snipe. (Zoöl.) See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Jack staff (Naut.), a staff fixed on the bowsprit cap, upon which
the jack is hoisted.
 -- Jack timber (Arch.), any timber, as a rafter, rib, or studding,
which, being intercepted, is shorter than the others.
 -- Jack towel, a towel hung on a roller for common use.
 -- Jack truss (Arch.), in a hip roof, a minor truss used where the
roof has not its full section.
 -- Jack tree. (Bot.) See 1st Jack, n.
 -- Jack yard (Naut.), a short spar to extend a topsail beyond the
gaff. Blue jack, blue vitriol; sulphate of copper.
 -- Hydraulic jack, a jack used for lifting, pulling, or forcing,
consisting of a compact portable hydrostatic press, with its pump and
a reservoir containing a supply of liquid, as oil.
 -- Jack-at-a-pinch. (a) One called upon to take the place of another
in an emergency. (b) An itinerant parson who conducts an occasional
service for a fee.
 -- Jack-at-all-trades, one who can turn his hand to any kind of
work.
 -- Jack-by-the-hedge (Bot.), a plant of the genus Erysimum (E.
alliaria, or Alliaria officinalis), which grows under hedges. It
bears a white flower and has a taste not unlike garlic. Called also,
in England, sauce-alone. Eng. Cyc.
 -- Jack-in-a-box. (a) (Bot.) A tropical tree (Hernandia sonora),
which bears a drupe that rattles when dry in the inflated calyx. (b)
A child's toy, consisting of a box, out of which, when the lid is
raised, a figure springs. (c) (Mech.) An epicyclic train of bevel
gears for transmitting rotary motion to two parts in such a manner
that their relative rotation may be variable; applied to driving the
wheels of tricycles, road locomotives, and to cotton machinery, etc.;
an equation box; a jack frame; -- called also compensating gearing.
(d) A large wooden screw turning in a nut attached to the crosspiece
of a rude press.
 -- Jack-in-office, an insolent fellow in authority. Wolcott.
 -- Jack-in-the-bush (Bot.), a tropical shrub with red fruit (Cordia
Cylindrostachya).
 -- Jack-in-the-green, a chimney sweep inclosed in a framework of
boughs, carried in Mayday processions.
 -- Jack-in-the-pulpit (Bot.), the American plant Arisæma triphyllum,
or Indian turnip, in which the upright spadix is inclosed.
 -- Jack-of-the-buttery (Bot.), the stonecrop (Sedum acre).
 -- Jack-of-the-clock, a figure, usually of a man, on old clocks,
which struck the time on the bell.
 -- Jack-on-both-sides, one who is or tries to be neutral.
 -- Jack-out-of-office, one who has been in office and is turned out.
Shak.
 -- Jack the Giant Killer, the hero of a well-known nursery story.
 -- Jack-with-a-lantern, Jack-o'-lantern. (a) An ignis fatuus; a
will-o'-the-wisp. "[Newspaper speculations] supplying so many more
jack-o'-lanterns to the future historian." Lowell. (b) A lantern made
of a pumpkin so prepared as to show in illumination the features of a
human face, etc.
 -- Yellow Jack (Naut.), the yellow fever; also, the quarantine flag.
See Yellow flag, under Flag.

JACK
Jack, n. Etym: [F. jaque, jacque, perh. from the proper name Jacques.
Cf. Jacquerie.]

Defn: A coarse and cheap mediæval coat of defense, esp. one made of
leather.
Their horsemen are with jacks for most part clad. Sir J. Harrington.

JACK
Jack, n. Etym: [Named from its resemblance to a jack boot.]

Defn: A pitcher or can of waxed leather; -- called also black jack.
[Obs.] Dryden.

JACK
Jack, v. i.

Defn: To hunt game at night by means of a jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4,
n.

JACK
Jack, v. t.

Defn: To move or lift, as a house, by means of a jack or jacks. See
2d Jack, n., 5.

JACK-A-DANDY
Jack`-a-dan"dy, n.

Defn: A little dandy; a little, foppish, impertinent fellow.

JACKAL
Jack"al`, n. Etym: [Pers. shaghal: cf. OF. jackal, F. chacal; cf.
Skr. ç\'f0gala.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of carnivorous animals inhabiting
Africa and Asia, related to the dog and wolf. They are cowardly,
nocturnal, and gregarious. They feed largely on carrion, and are
noted for their piercing and dismal howling.

Note: The common species of Southern Asia (Canis aureus) is yellowish
gray, varied with brown on the shoulders, haunches, and legs. The
common African species (C. anthus) is darker in color.

2. One who does mean work for another's advantage, as jackals were
once thought to kill game which lions appropriated. [Colloq.] Ld.
Lytton.

JACK-A-LENT
Jack"-a-lent, n.

Defn: A small stuffed puppet to be pelted in Lent; hence, a simple
fellow.

JACKANAPES
Jack"a*napes, n. Etym: [For Jack o' (= of) apes; prop., a man who
exhibits apes.] [Written also jackanape.]

1. A monkey; an ape. Shak.

2. A coxcomb; an impertinent or conceited fellow.
A young upstart jackanapes. Arbuthnot.

JACKAROO; JACKEROO
Jack`a*roo", n. Also Jack`e*roo". [Jack + kangaroo.]

Defn: A young man living as an apprentice on a sheep station, or
otherwise engaged in acquainting himself with colonial life.
[Colloq., Australia]

JACKAROO
Jack`a*roo", v. i.

Defn: To be a jackaroo; to pass one's time as a jackaroo. [Colloq.,
Australia]

JACKASS
Jack"ass`, n. Etym: [2d jack + ass.]

1. The male ass; a donkey.

2. A conceited dolt; a perverse blockhead. Jackass bark (Naut.), a
three-masted vessel, with only the foremast square-rigged; a
barkentine.
 -- Jackass deer (Zoöl.), the koba.
 -- Jackass hare, Jackass rabbit (Zoöl.). See Jack rabbit, under 2d
Jack, n.
 -- Jackass penguin (Zoöl.), any species of penguin of the genus
Spheniscus, of which several are known. One species (S. demersus)
inhabits the islands near the Cape of Good Hope; another (S.
Magellanicus) is found at the Falkland Islands. They make a noise
like the braying of an ass; -- hence the name.
 -- Laughing jackass. (Zoöl.) See under Laughing.

JACKDAW
Jack"daw`, n. Etym: [Prob. 2d jack + daw, n.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Daw, n.

JACKEEN
Jack*een", n.

Defn: A drunken, dissolute fellow. [Ireland] S. C. Hall.

JACKET
Jack"et, n. Etym: [F. jaquette, dim. of jaque. See 3d Jack, n.]

1. A short upper garment, extending downward to the hips; a short
coat without skirts.

2. An outer covering for anything, esp. a covering of some
nonconducting material such as wood or felt, used to prevent
radiation of heat, as from a steam boiler, cylinder, pipe, etc.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: In ordnance, a strengthening band surrounding and reënforcing
the tube in which the charge is fired.

4. A garment resembling a waistcoat lined with cork, to serve as a
life preserver; -- called also cork jacket. Blue jacket. (Naut.) See
under Blue.
 -- Steam jacket, a space filled with steam between an inner and an
outer cylinder, or between a casing and a receptacle, as a kettle.
 -- To dust one's jacket, to give one a beating. [Colloq.]

JACKET
Jack"et, v. t.

1. To put a jacket on; to furnish, as a boiler, with a jacket.

2. To thrash; to beat. [Low]

JACKETED
Jack"et*ed, a.

Defn: Wearing, or furnished with, a jacket.

JACKETING
Jack"et*ing, n.

Defn: The material of a jacket; as, nonconducting jacketing.

JACK KETCH
Jack" Ketch". Etym: [Perh. fr. Jack, the proper name + Prov. E. ketch
a hangman, fr. ketch, for catch to seize; but see the citations
below.]

Defn: A public executioner, or hangman. [Eng.]
The manor of Tyburn was formerly held by Richard Jaquett, where
felons for a long time were executed; from whence we have Jack Ketch.
Lloyd's MS., British Museum.
[Monmouth] then accosted John Ketch, the executioner, a wretch who
had butchered many brave and noble victims, and whose name has,
during a century and a half, been vulgarly given to all who have
succeeded him in his odious office. Macaulay.

JACKKNIFE
Jack"knife`, n.

Defn: A large, strong clasp knife for the pocket; a pocket knife.

JACK-'-LANTERN
Jack"-o'-lan`tern, n.

Defn: See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack.

JACKMAN
Jack"man, n.; pl. Jackmen (.

1. One wearing a jack; a horse soldier; a retainer. See 3d Jack, n.
Christie . . . the laird's chief jackman. Sir W. Scott.

2. A cream cheese. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

JACK-O'-LANTERN
Jack"-o'-lan`tern, n.

Defn: See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack. JACKPOT
Jackpot

Defn: 1. (a) See "jack pot" under jack; (b) any larger-than-usual
gambling prize formed by the accumulation of unwon bets[=MW10 1(a)(2)
and 1(c)]; (c) the highest gambling prize awarded in a gambling game
in which smaller prizes are also awarded, especially such a prize on
a slot machine.

Defn: 2. (a) An unusually large success in an enterprise, either
unexpected or unpredictable, esp. one providing a great financial
benefit. hit the jackpotto receive an unexpectedly large (or the
largest possible) benefit from an enterprise.

JACKPUDDING
Jack"pud`ding, n.

Defn: A merry-andrew; a buffoon. Milton.

JACKSAW
Jack"saw`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The merganser.

JACKSCREW
Jack"screw`, n.

Defn: A jack in which a screw is used for lifting, or exerting
pressure. See Illust. of 2d Jack, n., 5.

JACKSLAVE
Jack"slave`, n.

Defn: A low servant; a mean fellow. Shak.

JACKSMITH
Jack"smith`, n.

Defn: A smith who makes jacks. See 2d Jack, 4, c. Dryden.

JACKSNIPE
Jack"snipe`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small European snipe (Limnocryptes gallinula); -- called also
judcock, jedcock, juddock, jed, and half snipe.
(b) A small American sandpiper (Tringa maculata); -- called also
pectoral sandpiper, and grass snipe.

JACKSTAY
Jack"stay`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A rail of wood or iron stretching along a yard of a vessel, to
which the sails are fastened.

JACKSTONE
Jack"stone`, n.
(a) One of the pebbles or pieces used in the game of jackstones.
(b) (pl.) A game played with five small stones or pieces of metal.
See 6th Chuck.

JACKSTRAW
Jack"straw`, n.

1. An effigy stuffed with straw; a scarecrow; hence, a man without
property or influence. Milton.

2. One of a set of straws of strips of ivory, bone, wood, etc., for
playing a child's game, the jackstraws being thrown confusedly
together on a table, to be gathered up singly by a hooked instrument,
without touching or disturbing the rest of the pile. See Spilikin.

JACKWOOD
Jack"wood`, n.

Defn: Wood of the jack (Artocarpus integrifolia), used in
cabinetwork.

JACKY
Jack"y, n.; pl. Jackies (#). Dim. or pet from Jack. Hence:
 (a) A landsman's nickname for a seaman, resented by the latter.
 (b) English gin. [Dial. Eng.]

JACOB
Ja"cob, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Jacob. See 2d Jack.]

Defn: A Hebrew patriarch (son of Isaac, and ancestor of the Jews),
who in a vision saw a ladder reaching up to heaven (Gen. xxviii. 12);
-- also called Israel.
And Jacob said . . . with my staff I passed over this Jordan, and now
I am become two bands. Gen. xxxii. 9, 10.
Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel. Gen. xxxii. 28.
Jacob's ladder. (a) (Bot.) A perennial herb of the genus Polemonium
(P. coeruleum), having corymbs of drooping flowers, usually blue.
Gray. (b) (Naut.) A rope ladder, with wooden steps, for going aloft.
R. H. Dana, Jr. (c) (Naut.) A succession of short cracks in a
defective spar.
 -- Jacob's membrane. See Retina.
 -- Jacob's staff. (a) A name given to many forms of staff or weapon,
especially in the Middle Ages; a pilgrim's staff. [Obs.] Spenser. (b)
(Surveying) See under Staff.

JACOBAEAN LILY
Jac`o*bæ"an lil"y. Etym: [See Jacobean.] (Bot.)

Defn: A bulbous plant (Amaryllis, or Sprekelia, formosissima) from
Mexico. It bears a single, large, deep, red, lilylike flower.
[Written also Jacobean.]

JACOBEAN; JACOBIAN
Ja*co"be*an, Ja*co"bi*an, a. Etym: [From L. Jacobus James. See 2d
Jack.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a style of architecture and decoration in
the time of James the First, of England. "A Jacobean table." C. L.
Eastlake.

JACOBIN
Jac"o*bin, n. Etym: [F. See 2d Jack, Jacobite.]

1. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A Dominican friar; -- so named because, before the French
Revolution, that order had a convent in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris.

2. One of a society of violent agitators in France, during the
revolution of 1789, who held secret meetings in the Jacobin convent
in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris, and concerted measures to control the
proceedings of the National Assembly. Hence: A plotter against an
existing government; a turbulent demagogue.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fancy pigeon, in which the feathers of the neck form a hood,
-- whence the name. The wings and tail are long, and the beak
moderately short.

JACOBIN
Jac"o*bin, a.

Defn: Same as Jacobinic.

JACOBINE
Jac"o*bine, n.

Defn: A Jacobin.

JACOBINIC; JACOBINICAL
Jac`o*bin"ic, Jac`o*bin"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Jacobins of France; revolutionary; of
the nature of, or characterized by, Jacobinism. Burke.
 -- Jac`o*bin"ic*al*ly, adv.

JACOBINISM
Jac"o*bin*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Jacobinisme.]

Defn: The principles of the Jacobins; violent and factious opposition
to legitimate government.
Under this new stimulus, Burn's previous Jacobitism passed towards
the opposite, but not very distant, extreme of Jacobinism. J. C.
Shairp.

JACOBINIZE
Jac"o*bin*ize`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jacobinized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Jacobinizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. Jacobiniser.]

Defn: To taint with, or convert to, Jacobinism.
France was not then jacobinized. Burke.

JACOBITE
Jac"o*bite, n. Etym: [L. Jacobus James: cf. F. Jacobite. See 2d
Jack.]

1. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A partisan or adherent of James the Second, after his
abdication, or of his descendants, an opposer of the revolution in
1688 in favor of William and Mary. Macaulay.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of the sect of Syrian Monophysites. The sect is named after
Jacob Baradæus, its leader in the sixth century.

JACOBITE
Jac"o*bite, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Jacobites.

JACOBITIC; JACOBITICAL
Jac`o*bit"ic, Jac`o*bit"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Jacobites; characterized by Jacobitism.
 -- Jac`o*bit"ic*al*ly, adv.

JACOBITISM
Jac"o*bit*ism`, n.

Defn: The principles of the Jacobites. Mason.

JACOBUS
Ja*co"bus, n.; pl. Jacobuses. Etym: [See Jacobite.]

Defn: An English gold coin, of the value of twenty-five shillings
sterling, struck in the reign of James I.

JACONET
Jac"o*net, n. Etym: [F. jaconas.]

Defn: A thin cotton fabric, between and muslin, used for dresses,
neckcloths, etc. [Written also jacconet.]

JACQUARD
Jac*quard", a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or invented by, Jacquard, a French mechanician,
who died in 1834. Jacquard apparatus or arrangement, a device applied
to looms for weaving figured goods, consisting of mechanism
controlled by a chain of variously perforated cards, which cause the
warp threads to be lifted in the proper succession for producing the
required figure.
 -- Jacquard card, one of the perforated cards of a Jacquard
apparatus.
 -- Jackquard loom, a loom with Jacquard apparatus.

JACQUEMINOT
Jacque"mi*not, n.

Defn: A half-hardy, deep crimson rose of the remontant class; -- so
named after General Jacqueminot, of France.

JACQUERIE
Jacque`rie", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The name given to a revolt of French peasants against the
nobles in 1358, the leader assuming the contemptuous title, Jacques
Bonhomme, given by the nobles to the peasantry. Hence, any revolt of
peasants.

JACTANCY
Jac"tan*cy, n. Etym: [L. jactantia, fr. jactans, p. pr. of jactare to
throw, boast, freq. fr. jacere to throw; cf. F. jactance.]

Defn: A boasting; a bragging. [Obs.]

JACTATION
Jac*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. jactatio, fr. jactare: af. F. jactation.
See Jactancy.]

Defn: A throwing or tossing of the body; a shaking or agitation. Sir.
W. Temple.

JACTITATION
Jac"ti*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. jactitare to utter in public, from
jactare. See Jactancy.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Vain boasting or assertions repeated to the prejudice of
another's right; false claim. Mozley & W.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A frequent tossing or moving of the body; restlessness, as in
delirium. Dunglison. Jactitation of marriage (Eng. Eccl. Law), a
giving out or boasting by a party that he or she is married to
another, whereby a common reputation of their matrimony may ensue.
Blackstone.

JACULABLE
Jac"u*la*ble, a.

Defn: Fit for throwing. [Obs.]

JACULATE
Jac"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jaculated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Jaculating.] Etym: [L. jaculatus, p. p. of jaculari. See Ejaculate.]

Defn: To throw or cast, as a dart; to throw out; to emit.

JACULATION
Jac`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. jaculatio.]

Defn: The act of tossing, throwing, or hurling, as spears.
Hurled to and fro with jaculation dire. Milton.

JACULATOR
Jac"u*la`tor, Etym: [L.]

1. One who throws or casts. [R.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The archer fish (Toxotes jaculator).

JACULATORY
Jac"u*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. jaculatorius: cf. F. jaculatoire.]

Defn: Darting or throwing out suddenly; also, suddenly thrown out;
uttered in short sentences; ejaculatory; as, jaculatory prayers.
Smart.

JADDING
Jad"ding, n. (Mining)

Defn: See Holing.

JADE
Jade, n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. jade, fr. piedra de ijada stone of the
side, fr. ijada flank, side, pain in the side, the stone being so
named because it was supposed to cure this pain. Sp. ijada is derived
fr. L. ilia flanks. Cf. Iliac.] (Min.)

Defn: A stone, commonly of a pale to dark green color but sometimes
whitish. It is very hard and compact, capable of fine polish, and is
used for ornamental purposes and for implements, esp. in Eastern
countries and among many early peoples.

Note: The general term jade includes nephrite, a compact variety of
tremolite with a specific gravity of 3, and also the mineral jadeite,
a silicate of alumina and soda, with a specific gravity of 3.3. The
latter is the more highly prized and includes the feitsui of the
Chinese. The name has also been given to other tough green minerals
capable of similar use.

JADE
Jade, n. Etym: [OE. jade; cf. Prov. E. yaud, Scot. yade, yad, yaud,
Icel. jalda a mare.]

1. A mean or tired horse; a worthless nag. Chaucer.
Tired as a jade in overloaden cart. Sir P. Sidney.

2. A disreputable or vicious woman; a wench; a quean; also,
sometimes, a worthless man. Shak.
She shines the first of battered jades. Swift.

3. A young woman; -- generally so called in irony or slight contempt.
A souple jade she was, and strang. Burns.

JADE
Jade, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Jading.]

1. To treat like a jade; to spurn. [Obs.] Shak.

2. To make ridiculous and contemptible. [Obs.]
I do now fool myself, to let imagination jade me. Shak.

3. To exhaust by overdriving or long-continued labor of any kind; to
tire or wear out by severe or tedious tasks; to harass.
The mind, once jaded by an attempt above its power, . . . checks at
any vigorous undertaking ever after. Locke.

Syn.
 -- To fatigue; tire; weary; harass.
 -- To Jade, Fatigue, Tire, Weary. Fatigue is the generic term; tire
denotes fatigue which wastes the strength; weary implies that a
person is worn out by exertion; jade refers to the weariness created
by a long and steady repetition of the same act or effort. A little
exertion will tire a child or a weak person; a severe or protracted
task wearies equally the body and the mind; the most powerful horse
becomes jaded on a long journey by a continual straining of the same
muscles. Wearied with labor of body or mind; tired of work, tired out
by importunities; jaded by incessant attention to business.

JADE
Jade, v. i.

Defn: To become weary; to lose spirit.
They . . . fail, and jade, and tire in the prosecution. South.

JADEITE
Jade"ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Jade, the stone.

JADERY
Jad"er*y, n.

Defn: The tricks of a jade.

JADISH
Jad"ish, a.

1. Vicious; ill-tempered; resembling a jade; -- applied to a horse.

2. Unchaste; -- applied to a woman. L'Estrange.

JAEGER
Jae"ger, n.

Defn: See Jager.

JAG
Jag, n. Etym: [Prob. of Celtic origin; cf. W. gag aperture, cleft,
chink; akin to Ir. & Gael. gag.] [Written also jagg.]

1. A notch; a cleft; a barb; a ragged or sharp protuberance; a
denticulation.
Arethuss arose . . . From rock and from jag. Shelley.
Garments thus beset with long jags. Holland.

2. A part broken off; a fragment. Bp. Hacket.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A cleft or division. Jag bolt, a bolt with a nicked or barbed
shank which resists retraction, as when leaded into stone.

JAG
Jag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Jagging.]

Defn: To cut into notches or teeth like those of a saw; to notch.
[Written also jagg. Jagging iron, a wheel with a zigzag or jagged
edge for cutting cakes or pastry into ornamental figures.

JAG
Jag, n. Etym: [Scot. jag, jaug, a leather bag or wallet, a pocket.
Cf. Jag a notch.]

Defn: A small load, as of hay or grain in the straw, or of ore.
[Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] [Written also jagg.] Forby.

JAG
Jag, v. t.

Defn: To carry, as a load; as, to jag hay, etc. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq.
U.S.]

JAGANATHA; JAGANATHA
Jag`a*nat"ha, Jag`a*nat"ha, n.

Defn: See Juggernaut.

JAGANNATH; JAGANNATHA; JUGGERNAUT
Jag"an*nath, Jag`an*na"tha, n. Also Jug"ger*naut. [Hind. Jagan-nath
lord of the world, Skr. jagannatha.] (Hinduism)

Defn: A particular form of Vishnu, or of Krishna, whose chief idol
and worship are at Puri, in Orissa. The idol is considered to contain
the bones of Krishna and to possess a soul. The principal festivals
are the Snanayatra, when the idol is bathed, and the Rathayatra, when
the image is drawn upon a car adorned with obscene paintings.
Formerly it was erroneously supposed that devotees allowed themselves
to be crushed beneath the wheels of this car. It is now known that
any death within the temple of Jagannath is considered to render the
place unclean, and any spilling of blood in the presence of the idol
is a pollution.

JAGER
Ja"ger, n. Etym: [G. jäger a hunter, a sportsman. Cf. Yager.]
[Written also jaeger.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A sharpshooter. See Yager.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of gull of the genus Stercorarius. Three species
occur on the Atlantic coast. The jagers pursue other species of gulls
and force them to disgorge their prey. The two middle tail feathers
are usually decidedly longer than the rest. Called also boatswain,
and marline-spike bird. The name is also applied to the skua, or
Arctic gull (Megalestris skua).

JAGG
Jagg, v. t. & n.

Defn: See Jag.

JAGGED
Jag"ged, a.

Defn: Having jags; having rough, sharp notches, protuberances, or
teeth; cleft; laciniate; divided; as, jagged rocks. " Jagged vine
leaves' shade." Trench.
 -- Jag"ged*ly, adv.
 -- Jag"ged*ness, n.

JAGGER
Jag"ger, n.

Defn: One who carries about a small load; a peddler. See 2d Jag.
[Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

JAGGER
Jag"ger, n. Etym: [From 4th Jag.]

Defn: One who, or that which, jags; specifically: (a) jagging iron
used for crimping pies, cakes, etc. (b) A toothed chisel. See Jag, v.
t. Jagger spring, a spring beneath a seat, and resting on cleats or
blocks in the body of a vehicle. Knight.

JAGGERY
Jag"ger*y, n. Etym: [Hind jagri. Cf. Sugar.]

Defn: Raw palm sugar, made in the East Indies by evaporating the
fresh juice of several kinds of palm trees, but specifically that of
the palmyra (Borassus flabelliformis). [Written also jagghery.]

JAGGERY PALM
Jag"ger*y palm.

Defn: An East Indian palm (Caryota urens) having leaves pinnate with
wedge-shaped divisions, the petiole very stout. It is the principal
source of jaggery, and is often cultivated for ornament.

JAGGY
Jag"gy, a.

Defn: Having jags; set with teeth; notched; uneven; as, jaggy teeth.
Addison.

JAGHIR
Ja"ghir, n. Etym: [Per. jagir.]

Defn: A village or district the government and revenues of which are
assigned to some person, usually in consideration of some service to
be rendered, esp. the maintenance of troops. [Written also jaghire,
jagir, etc.] [India] Whitworth.

JAGHIRDAR
Ja"ghir*dar`, n. Etym: [Per. jagir-dar.]

Defn: The holder of a jaghir.

JAGUA PALM
Ja"gua palm`. Etym: [Sp. jagua the fruit of the jagua palm.] (Bot.)

Defn: A great Brazilian palm (Maximiliana regia), having immense
spathes which are used for baskets and tubs.

JAGUAR
Ja*guar", n. Etym: [Braz. yagoára: cf. & Pg. jaguar.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large and powerful feline animal (Felis onca), ranging from
Texas and Mexico to Patagonia. It is usually brownish yellow, with
large, dark, somewhat angular rings, each generally inclosing one or
two dark spots. It is chiefly arboreal in its habits. Called also the
American tiger.

JAGUARONDI
Ja`gua*ron"di, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American wild cat (Felis jaguarondi), having a long,
slim body and very short legs. Its color is grayish brown, varied
with a blackish hue. It is arboreal in its habits and feeds mostly on
birds.

JAH
Jah (jä), n. Etym: [Heb. yah.]

Defn: Jehovah. Ps. lxviii. 4.

JAHVIST; JAHVISTIC
Jah"vist, n., Jah*vis"tic, a.

Defn: See Jehovist, Jehovistic.

JAIL
Jail, n. Etym: [OE. jaile, gail, gayhol, OF. gaole, gaiole, jaiole,
F. geôle, LL. gabiola, dim. of gabia cage, for L. cavea cavity, cage.
See Cage.]

Defn: A kind of prison; a building for the confinement of persons
held in lawful custody, especially for minor offenses or with
reference to some future judicial proceeding. [Written also gaol.]
This jail I count the house of liberty. Milton.
Jail bird, a prisoner; one who has been confined in prison. [Slang] -
- Jail delivery, the release of prisoners from jail, either legally
or by violence.
 -- Jail delivery commission. See under Gaol.
 -- Jail fever (Med.), typhus fever, or a disease resembling it,
generated in jails and other places crowded with people; -- called
also hospital fever, and ship fever.
 -- Jail liberties, or Jail limits, a space or district around a jail
within which an imprisoned debtor was, on certain conditions, allowed
to go at large. Abbott.
 -- Jail lock, a peculiar form of padlock; -- called also
Scandinavian lock.

JAIL
Jail, v. t.

Defn: To imprison. [R.] T. Adams (1614).
[Bolts] that jail you from free life. Tennyson.

JAILER
Jail"er, n. Etym: [OE. jailer, gailer, OF. geolier, F. geôlier. See
Jail.]

Defn: The keeper of a jail or prison. [Written also jailor, gaoler.]

JAIN; JAINA
Jain, Jai"na, n. Etym: [Skr. Jaina, fr. Jina, a proper name, fr. jina
victorious.]

Defn: One of a numerous sect in British India, holding the tenets of
Jainism.

JAINISM
Jain"ism, n.

Defn: The heterodox Hindoo religion, of which the most striking
features are the exaltation of saints or holy mortals, called jins,
above the ordinary Hindoo gods, and the denial of the divine origin
and infallibility of the Vedas. It is intermediate between Brahmanism
and Buddhism, having some things in common with each.

JAIROU
Jai*rou", n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ahu or Asiatic gazelle.

JAK
Jak, n. (Bot.)

Defn: see Ils Jack.

JAKES
Jakes, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. F. Jacques, the proper name. See 2d Jack.]

Defn: A privy. Shak.

JAKIE
Ja"kie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American striped frog (Pseudis paradoxa), remarkable
for having a tadpole larger than the adult, and hence called also
paradoxical frog.

JAKO
Jak"o (jâk"o), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African parrot (Psittacus erithacus), very commonly kept as
a cage bird; -- called also gray parrot.

JAKWOOD
Jak"wood`, n.

Defn: See Jackwood.

JALAP
Jal"ap, n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. jalapa; -- so called from Jalapa, a
town in Mexico, whence it was first obtained.] (Med.)

Defn: The tubers of the Mexican plant Ipomoea purga (or Exogonium
purga), a climber much like the morning-glory. The abstract, extract,
and powder, prepared from the tubers, are well known purgative
medicines. Other species of Ipomoea yield several inferior kinds of
jalap, as the I. Orizabensis, and I. tuberosa. False jalap, the root
of Mirabilis Jalapa, four-o'clock, or marvel of Peru.

JALAPIC
Ja*lap"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to jalap.

JALAPIN
Jal"a*pin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the stems of the jalap plant and scammony.
It is a strong purgative.

JALONS
Ja`lons", n. pl. Etym: [F. Of unknown origin.] (Mil.)

Defn: Long poles, topped with wisps of straw, used as landmarks and
signals. Farrow.

JALOUSIE
Ja`lou`sie", n. Etym: [F. See Jealousy.]

Defn: A Venetian or slatted inside window blind.

JALOUSIED
Ja`lou`sied", a.

Defn: Furnished with jalousies; as, jalousied porches.

JAM
Jam, n. Etym: [Per. or Hind. jamah garment, robe.]

Defn: A kind of frock for children.

JAM
Jam, n. (Mining)

Defn: See Jamb.

JAM
Jam, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Jammed; p. pr. & vb. n. Jamming.] Etym:
[Either fr. jamb, as if squeezed between jambs, or more likely from
the same source as champ See Champ.]

1. To press into a close or tight position; to crowd; to squeeze; to
wedge in.
The . . . jammed in between two rocks. De Foe.

2. To crush or bruise; as, to jam a finger in the crack of a door.
[Colloq.]

3. (Naut.)

Defn: To bring (a vessel) so close to the wind that half her upper
sails are laid aback. W. C. Russell.

JAM
Jam, n.

1. A mass of people or objects crowded together; also, the pressure
from a crowd; a crush; as, a jam in a street; a jam of logs in a
river.

2. An injury caused by jamming. [Colloq.]