

KAGE
Kage, n.

Defn: A chantry chapel inclosed with lattice or screen work.

KAGU
Ka"gu, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A singular, crested, grallatorial bird (Rhinochetos jubatus),
native of New Caledonia. It is gray above, paler beneath, and the
feathers of the wings and tail are handsomely barred with brown,
black, and gray. It is allied to the sun bittern.

KAGUAN
Ka`gu*an", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The colugo.

KAHANI
Ka"ha"ni, n.

Defn: A kind of notary public, or attorney, in the Levant.

KAHAU
Ka*hau", n. Etym: [Native name, from its cry.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-nosed monkey (Semnopithecus nasalis), native of Borneo.
The general color of the body is bright chestnut, with the under
parts, shoulders, and sides of the head, golden yellow, and the top
of the head and upper part of the back brown. Called also proboscis
monkey. [Written also kaha.]

KAIL
Kail, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of headless cabbage. Same as Kale, 1.

2. Any cabbage, greens, or vegetables. [OE. or Scot.]

3. A broth made with kail or other vegetables; hence, any broth;
also, a dinner. [Scot.] Kail yard, a kitchen garden. [Scot.]

KAIMACAM
Kai`ma*cam", n.

Defn: Same as Caimacam.

KAIN
Kain, n. (Scots Law)

Defn: Poultry, etc., required by the lease to be paid in kind by a
tenant to his landlord. Wharton (Law Dict.).

KAINIT
Kai"nit, n. Etym: [Trade name, fr. kainite.]

Defn: Salts of potassium used in the manufacture of fertilizers.

KAINITE
Kai"nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A compound salt consisting chiefly of potassium chloride and
magnesium sulphate, occurring at the Stassfurt salt mines in Prussian
Saxony.

KAINOZOIC
Kai`no*zo"ic, a.

Defn: See Cenozoic.

KAIQUE
Ka*ique", n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Caique.

KAIRINE
Kai"rine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A pale buff or white crystalline alkaloid derived from
quinoline, and used as an antipyretic in medicine.

KAIROLINE
Kai`ro*line, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base obtained from quinoline. It is used as a
febrifuge, and resembles kairine.

KAISER
Kai"ser, n. Etym: [Gr., fr. L. Caesar. Cf. Kesar, and Czar.]

Defn: The ancient title of emperors of Germany assumed by King
William of Prussia when crowned sovereign of the new German empire in
1871.

KAKA
Ka"ka, n. Etym: [Maori kaka a parrot; -- so named from its note.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A New Zealand parrot of the genus Nestor, especially the brown
parrot (Nestor meridionalis).

Note: The mountain kaka, or kea (N. notabilis), is remarkable for
having recently acquired carnivorous habits. It attacks and kills
lambs and pigs, sometimes doing great damage. Night kaka. (Zoöl.) The
kakapo.

KAKAPO
Ka`ka*po", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A singular nocturnal parrot (Strigops habroptilus), native of
New Zealand. It lives in holes during the day, but is active at
night. It resembles an owl in its colors and general appearance. It
has large wings, but can fly only a short distance. Called also owl
parrot, night parrot, and night kaka.

KAKARALLI
Kak`a*ral"li, n.

Defn: A kind of wood common in Demerara, durable in salt water,
because not subject to the depredations of the sea worm and barnacle.

KAKISTOCRACY
Kak`is*toc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Government by the worst men.

KAKOXENE
Ka*kox"ene, n.

Defn: See Cacoxene.

KALAN
Ka*lan", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sea otter.

KALASIE
Ka`la*sie", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-tailed monkey of Borneo (Semnopithecus rubicundus). It
has a tuft of long hair on the head.

KALE
Kale, n. Etym: [Scot. kale, kail, cale, colewort, Gael. cael; akin to
Ir. cal, W. cawl, Armor. kaol. See Cole.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of cabbage in which the leaves do not form a head,
being nearly the original or wild form of the species. [Written also
kail, and cale.]

2. See Kail, 2. Sea kale (Bot.), a European cruciferous herb (Crambe
maritima), often used as a pot herb; sea cabbage.

KALEEGE
Ka*leege", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of large, crested, Asiatic pheasants,
belonging to the genus Euplocamus, and allied to the firebacks.

KALEIDOPHON; KALEIDOPHONE
Ka*lei"do*phon, Ka*lei"do*phone, Etym: [Gr. (Physics.)

Defn: An instrument invented by Professor Wheatstone, consisting of a
reflecting knob at the end of a vibrating rod or thin plate, for
making visible, in the motion of a point of light reflected from the
knob, the paths or curves corresponding with the musical notes
produced by the vibrations.

KALEIDOSCOPE
Ka*lei"do*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An instrument invented by Sir David Brewster, which contains
loose fragments of colored glass, etc., and reflecting surfaces so
arranged that changes of position exhibit its contents in an endless
variety of beautiful colors and symmetrical forms. It has been much
employed in arts of design.
Shifting like the fragments of colored glass in the kaleidoscope. G.
W. Cable.

KALEIDOSCOPIC; KALEIDOSCOPICAL
Ka*lei`do*scop"ic, Ka*lei`do*scop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a kaleidoscope; variegated.

KALENDAR
Kal"en*dar, n.

Defn: See Calendar.

KALENDARIAL
Kal`en*da"ri*al, a.

Defn: See Calendarial.

KALENDER
Kal"en*der, n.

Defn: See 3d Calender.

KALENDS
Kal"ends, n.

Defn: Same as Calends.

KALI
Ka"li, n. Etym: [Skr. kali.] (Hind. Cosmog.)

Defn: The last and worst of the four ages of the world; -- considered
to have begun B. C. 3102, and to last 432,000 years.

KALI
Ka"li, n. Etym: [Skr. kali.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: The black, destroying goddess; -- called also Doorga, Anna
Purna.

KALI
Ka"li, n. Etym: [Ar. qali. See Alkali.] (Bot.)

Defn: The glasswort (Salsola Kali).

KALIF
Ka"lif, n.

Defn: See Caliph.

KALIFORM
Ka"li*form, a. Etym: [Kali + -form.]

Defn: Formed like kali, or glasswort.

KALIGENOUS
Ka*lig"e*nous, a. Etym: [Kali + -genous. See Alkali.]

Defn: Forming alkalies with oxygen, as some metals.

KALIUM
Ka"li*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Kali.] (Chem.)

Defn: Potassium; -- so called by the German chemists.

KALKI
Kal"ki, n. Etym: [Skr.]

Defn: The name of Vishnu in his tenth and last avatar. Whitworth.

KALMIA
Kal"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL. Named in honor of Peter Kalm, a Swedish
botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of North American shrubs with poisonous evergreen
foliage and corymbs of showy flowers. Called also mountain laurel,
ivy bush, lamb kill, calico bush, etc.

KALMUCK
Kal"muck, n.

1. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: See Calmucks.

2. A kind of shaggy cloth, resembling bearskin.

3. A coarse, dyed, cotton cloth, made in Prussia.

KALONG
Ka*long", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fruit bat, esp. the Indian edible fruit bat (Pteropus
edulis).

KALOYER
Ka*loy"er, n.

Defn: See Caloyer.

KALPA
Kal"pa, n. Etym: [Skr.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: One of the Brahmanic eons, a period of 4,320,000,000 years. At
the end of each Kalpa the world is annihilated.

KALSOMINE
Kal"so*mine, n. & v. t.

Defn: Same as Calcimine.

KAM
Kam, a. Etym: [From Celtic; cf. Gael., Ir., & W. cam. Cf. Jamb, n.]

Defn: Crooked; awry. [Obs.] "This is clean kam." Shak.

KAMA
Ka"ma, n. Etym: [Skr. kama love, the god of love.]

Defn: The Hindoo Cupid. He is represented as a beautiful youth, with
a bow of sugar cane or flowers.

KAMALA
Ka*ma"la, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The red dusty hairs of the capsules of an East Indian tree
(Mallotus Philippinensis) used for dyeing silk. It is violently
emetic, and is used in the treatment of tapeworm. [Written also
kameela.]

KAME
Kame, n.

Defn: A low ridge. [Scot.] See Eschar.

KAMI
Ka"mi, n. pl. Etym: [Japanese.]

Defn: A title given to the celestial gods of the first mythical
dynasty of Japan and extended to the demigods of the second dynasty,
and then to the long line of spiritual princes still represented by
the mikado.

KAMICHI
Ka"mi*chi, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A curious South American bird (Anhima, or Palamedea, cornuta),
often domesticated by the natives and kept with poultry, which it
defends against birds of prey. It has a long, slender, hornlike
ornament on its head, and two sharp spurs on each wing. Although its
beak, feet, and legs resemble those of gallinaceous birds, it is
related in anatomical characters to the ducks and geese (Anseres).
Called also horned screamer. The name is sometimes applied also to
the chaja. See Chaja, and Screamer.

KAMPTULICON
Kamp*tu"li*con, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A kind of elastic floor cloth, made of India rubber, gutta-
percha, linseed oil, and powdered cork.

KAMPYLITE
Kam"py*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of mimetite or arseniate of lead in hexagonal prisms
of a fine orange yellow. [Written also campylite.]

KAMSIN; KHAMSIN
Kam*sin", Kham*sin", n. Etym: [Ar. khamsin, fr. khamsun, oblique case
khamsin, fifty; -- so called because it blows for about fifty days,
from April till June.]

Defn: A hot southwesterly wind in Egypt, coming from the Sahara.
[Written also Khamseen.]

KAMTSCHADALES
Kam"tscha*dales, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: An aboriginal tribe inhabiting the southern part of
Kamtschatka.

KAN
Kan, v. t.

Defn: To know; to ken. [Obs.] See Ken.

KAN
Kan, n.

Defn: See Khan.

KANACKA; KANAKA
Ka*nack"a, Ka*na"ka, n. Etym: [Native name, prop., a man.]

Defn: A native of the Sandwich Islands.

KANCHIL
Kan"chil, n. Etym: [Malay canchil.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small chevrotain of the genus Tragulus, esp. T. pygmæus, or
T. kanchil, inhabiting Java, Sumatra, and adjacent islands; a
deerlet. It is noted for its agility and cunning.

KAND
Kand, n. (Mining)

Defn: Fluor spar; -- so called by Cornish miners.

KANGAROO
Kan"ga*roo", n. Etym: [Said to be the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of jumping marsupials of the family
Macropodidæ. They inhabit Australia, New Guinea, and adjacent
islands, They have long and strong hind legs and a large tail, while
the fore legs are comparatively short and feeble. The giant kangaroo
(Macropus major) is the largest species, sometimes becoming twelve or
fourteen feet in total length. The tree kangaroos, belonging to the
genus Dendrolagus, live in trees; the rock kangaroos, of the genus
Petrogale, inhabit rocky situations; and the brush kangaroos, of the
genus Halmaturus, inhabit wooded districts. See Wallaby.

Kangaroo apple (Bot.), the edible fruit of the Tasmanian plant
Solanum aviculare.
 -- Kangaroo grass (Bot.), a perennial Australian forage grass
(Anthistiria australis).
 -- Kangaroo hare (Zoöl.), the jerboa kangaroo. See under Jerboa.
 -- Kangaroo mouse. (Zoöl.) See Jumping mouse, under Jumping.
 -- Kangaroo rat (Zoöl.), the potoroo.

KANSAS
Kan"sas, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians allied to the Winnebagoes and Osages. They
formerly inhabited the region which is now the State of Kansas, but
were removed to the Indian Territory.

KANTIAN
Kant"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Immanuel Kant, the German philosopher;
conformed or relating to any or all of the philosophical doctrines of
Immanuel Kant.

KANTIAN
Kant"i*an, n.

Defn: A follower of Kant; a Kantist.

KANTIANISM; KANTISM
Kant"i*an*ism, Kant"ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine or theory of Kant; the Kantian philosophy.

KANTIST
Kant"ist n.

Defn: A disciple or follower of Kant.

KANTTRY
Kant"try, n.

Defn: Same as Cantred.

KAOLIN; KAOLINE
Ka"o*lin, Ka"o*line, n. Etym: [Chin. kao-ling.] (Min.)

Defn: A very pure white clay, ordinarily in the form of an impalpable
powder, and used to form the paste of porcelain; China clay;
porcelain clay. It is chiefly derived from the decomposition of
common feldspar.

Note: The name is now applied to all porcelain clays which endure the
fire without discoloration.

KAOLINIZATION
Ka`o*lin`i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The process by which feldspar is changed into kaolin.

KAOLINIZE
Ka"o*lin*ize, v. t.

Defn: To convert into kaolin.

KAPELLE
Ka*pel"le, n. Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: A chapel; hence, the choir or orchestra of a prince's chapel;
now, a musical establishment, usually orchestral. Grove.

KAPELLMEISTER
Ka*pell"meis`ter, n. Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: See Capellmeister.

KAPIA
Ka"pi*a, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Min.)

Defn: The fossil resin of the kauri tree of New Zealand.

KAPNOMAR
Kap"no*mar, n. Chem.

Defn: ) See Capnomor.

KAPOK
Ka*pok", n. [Prob. fr. the native name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A silky wool derived from the seeds of Ceiba pentandra (syn.
Eriodendron anfractuosum), a bombaceous tree of the East and West
Indies.

KARAGANE
Kar"a*gane, n. Etym: [Russ. karagan'] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of gray fox found in Russia.

KARAISM
Ka"ra*ism, n.

Defn: Doctrines of the Karaites.

KARAITE
Ka"ra*ite, n. Etym: [Heb.qara to read.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A sect of Jews who adhere closely to the letter of the
Scriptures, rejecting the oral law, and allowing the Talmud no
binding authority; -- opposed to the Rabbinists.

KARAKUL
Ka`ra*kul", n. [Russ. karakul' curly fleece of Bokhara and Khiva
sheep.]

Defn: Astrakhan, esp. in fine grades. Cf. Caracul.

KARATAS
Ka*ra"tas, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian plant of the Pineapple family (Nidularium
Karatas).

KARMA
Kar"ma, n. Etym: [Skr.] (Buddhism)

Defn: One's acts considered as fixing one's lot in the future
existence. (Theos.) The doctrine of fate as the inflexible result of
cause and effect; the theory of inevitable consequence.

KARMATHIAN
Kar*ma"thi*an, n.

Defn: One of a Mohammedan sect founded in the ninth century by
Karmat.

KARN
Karn, n. Etym: [Cornish. Cf. Cairn.] (Mining)

Defn: A pile of rocks; sometimes, the solid rock. See Cairn.

KAROB
Ka"rob, n. Etym: [Cf. Carat.]

Defn: The twenty-fourth part of a grain; -- a weight used by
goldsmiths. Crabb.

KAROSS
Ka*ross", n. [Native name.]

Defn: A native garment or rug of skin sewed together in the form of a
square. [South Africa]

The wants of a native . . . are confined to a kaross (skin cloak) or
some pieces of cotton cloth.
James Bryce.

KARPHOLITE
Kar"pho*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. carpholithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A fibrous mineral occurring in tufts of a straw-yellow color.
It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and manganese.

KARROO
Kar*roo", n.; pl. Karroos (.

Defn: One of the dry table-lands of South Africa, which often rise
terracelike to considerable elevations. [Also karoo.] The Great
Karroo, or The Karroo, a vast plateau, in Cape Colony, stretching
through five degrees of longitude, at an elevation of about 3,000
feet.

KARSTENITE
Kar"sten*ite, n.

Defn: Same as Anhydrite.

KARVEL
Kar"vel, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Carvel, and Caravel.

KARYOKINESIS
Kar"y*o*ki*ne`sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The indirect division of cells in which, prior to division of
the cell protoplasm, complicated changes take place in the nucleus,
attended with movement of the nuclear fibrils; -- opposed to
karyostenosis. The nucleus becomes enlarged and convoluted, and
finally the threads are separated into two groups which ultimately
become disconnected and constitute the daughter nuclei. Called also
mitosis. See Cell development, under Cell.

KARYOKINETIC
Kar`y*o*ki*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to karyokinesis; as, karyokinetic changes of
cell division.

KARYOMITON
Kar`y*om"i*ton, n. Etym: [NL., Gr. ( (Biol.)

Defn: The reticular network of fine fibers, of which the nucleus of a
cell is in part composed; -- in opposition to kytomiton, or the
network in the body of the cell. W. Flemming.

KARYOPLASMA
Kar`y*o*plas"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. a num + (Biol.)

Defn: The protoplasmic substance of the nucleus of a cell:
nucleoplasm; -- in opposition to kytoplasma, the protoplasm of the
cell.

KARYOSTENOSIS
Kar`y*o*ste*no"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Direct cell division (in which there is first a simple division
of the nucleus, without any changes in its structure, followed by
division of the protoplasm of the karyostenotic mode of nuclear
division.

KARYOSTENOTIC
Kar`y*o*ste*not"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or connected with, karyostenosis; as, the
karyostenotic mode of nuclear division.

KASACK
Ka*sack", n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Same as Cossack.

KAT
Kat, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Arabian shrub Catha edulis) the leaves of which are used as
tea by the Arabs.

KATABOLIC
Kat`a*bol"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to katabolism; as, katabolic processes, which
give rise to substances (katastates) of decreasing complexity and
increasing stability.

KATABOLISM
Ka*tab"o*lism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Destructive or downward metabolism; regressive metamorphism; --
opposed to anabolism. See Disassimilation.

KATASTATE
Kat"a*state, n. Etym: [Gr. (

Defn: (Physiol.) A substance formed by a katabolic process; --
opposed to anastate. See Katabolic.

KATE
Kate, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The brambling finch.

KATHETAL
Kath"e*tal, a. Etym: [Gr. Cathetus.] (Math.)

Defn: Making a right angle; perpendicular, as two lines or two sides
of a triangle, which include a right angle.

KATHETOMETER
Kath`e*tom"e*ter, n.

Defn: Same as Cathetometer.

KATTIMUNDOO
Kat`ti*mun"doo, n.

Defn: A caoutchouc like substance obtained from the milky juice of
the East Indian Euphorbia Kattimundoo. It is used as a cement.

KATYDID
Ka"ty*did`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, green, arboreal, orthopterous insect (Cyrtophyllus
concavus) of the family Locustidæ, common in the United States. The
males have stridulating organs at the bases of the front wings.
During the summer and autumn, in the evening, the males make a
peculiar, loud, shrill sound, resembling the combination Katy-did,
whence the name.

KAURI
Ka"u*ri, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, or Dammara,
australis), furnishing valuable timber and yielding one kind of
dammar resin. [Written also kaudi, cowdie, and cowrie.]

KAURI RESIN; KAURI GUM; KAURI COPAL
Kauri resin, gum, or copal.

Defn: A resinous product of the kauri, found in the form of yellow or
brown lumps in the ground where the trees have grown. It is used for
making varnish, and as a substitute for amber.

KAVA
Ka"va, n. Etym: [Polynesian.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Macropiper (M. methysticum), the long pepper, from
the root of which an intoxicating beverage is made by the
Polynesians, by a process of mastication; also, the beverage itself.
[Written also kawa, kava, and ava.]

KAVASS
Ka*vass", n.; pl. Kavasses Etym: [Turk. kavvas]

Defn: An armed constable; also, a government servant or courier.
[Turkey]

KAW
Kaw, v. i. & n.

Defn: See Caw.

KAWAKA
Ka*wa"ka, n. (Bot.)

Defn: a New Zealand tree, the Cypress cedar (Libocedrus Doniana),
having a valuable, fine-grained, reddish wood.

KAWN
Kawn, n.

Defn: A inn. [Turkey] See Khan.

KAYAK
Kay"ak, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A light canoe, made of skins stretched over a frame, and
usually capable of carrying but one person, who sits amidships and
uses a double-bladed paddle. It is peculiar to the Eskimos and other
Arctic tribes.

KAYAKER
Kay"ak*er, n.

Defn: One who uses a kayak.

KAYKO
Kay"ko, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dog salmon.

KAYLES
Kayles, n. pl. Etym: [Akin to Dan. kegle, Sw. kegla, D. & G. kegel,
OHG. kegil, whence F. quille.]

Defn: A game; ninepins. [Prov Eng.] Carew.

KAYNARD
Kay"nard, n. Etym: [F. cagnard.]

Defn: A lazy or cowardly person; a rascal. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KAZOO
Ka*zoo", n. [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A kind of toy or rude musical instrument, as a tube inside of
which is a stretched string made to vibrate by singing or humming
into the tube.

KEA
Ke"a (ka"a; colloq. ke"a), n. [Maori.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large New Zealand parrot (Nestor notabilis), notorious for
having acquired the habit of killing sheep; -- called also mountain
parrot.

KECK
Keck, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kecked; p. pr. & vb. n. Kecking.] Etym:
[Cf. dial. G. köcken, köken.]

Defn: To heave or to retch, as in an effort to vomit. [R.] Swift.

KECK
Keck, n.

Defn: An effort to vomit; queasiness. [R.]

KECKLE
Kec"kle, v. i. & n.

Defn: See Keck, v. i. & n.

KECKLE
Kec"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Keckled; p. pr. & vb. n. Keckling.]
(Naut.)

Defn: To wind old rope around, as a cable, to preserve its surface
from being fretted, or to wind iron chains around, to defend from the
friction of a rocky bottom, or from the ice. Totten.

KECKLING
Kec"kling, n.

Defn: Old rope or iron chains wound around a cable. See Keckle, v. t.

KECKLISH
Kec"klish, a. Etym: [From keck, keckle.]

Defn: Inclined to vomit; squeamish. [R.] Holland.

KECKSY
Keck"sy, n.; pl. Kecksies (-sîz). Etym: [Properly pl. of kex. See
Kex.] (Bot.)

Defn: The hollow stalk of an umbelliferous plant, such as the cow
parsnip or the hemlock. [Written also kex, and in pl., kecks, kaxes.]
Nothing teems But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs.
Shak.

KECKY
Keck"y, a.

Defn: Resembling a kecksy. Grew.

KEDDAH
Ked"dah, n. [Malay kedah, fr. Ar. qadah hole.]

Defn: An inclosure constructed to entrap wild elephants; an elephant
trap. [India]

KEDGE
Kedge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kedged; p. pr. & vb. n. Kedging.] Etym:
[Cf. dial. Sw. keka to tug, to drag one's self slowly forward; or
perh. fr. ked, and kedge, n., for ked anchor, named from the ked or
cask fastened to the anchor to show where it lies.] (Naut.)

Defn: To move (a vessel) by carrying out a kedge in a boat, dropping
it overboard, and hauling the vessel up to it.

KEDGE
Kedge, n. Etym: [See Kedge, v. t.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small anchor used whenever a large one can be dispensed
witch. See Kedge, v. t., and Anchor, n.

KEDGER
Kedg"er n. (Naut.)

Defn: A small anchor; a kedge.

KEDLOCK
Ked"lock, n. Etym: [Cf. dial. G.köddik, küdik, kettich, keek, Dan.
kidike, E. charlock, and AS. cedelc the herb mercury.] (Bot.)

Defn: See Charlock.

KEE
Kee, n. pl. of Cow. Etym: [AS. c, pl. of c cow. See Kine.]

Defn: See Kie, Ky, and Kine. [Prov. Eng.] Gay.

KEECH
Keech, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. keech a cake.]

Defn: A mass or lump of fat rolled up by the butcher. [Obs.] Shak.

KEEL
Keel, v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. c to cool, fr. c cool. See Cool.]

Defn: To cool; to akin or stir [Obs.]
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot. Shak.

KEEL
Keel, n.

Defn: A brewer's cooling vat; a keelfat.

KEEL
Keel, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. ceól ship; akin to D. & G. kiel keel, OHG.
chiol ship, Icel. kj, and perh. to Gr. gla ball, round water vessel.
But the meaning of the English word seems to come from Icel. kjölr
keel, akin to Sw. köl, Dan. kjöl.]

1. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A longitudinal timber, or series of timbers scarfed together,
extending from stem to stern along the bottom of a vessel. It is the
principal timber of the vessel, and, by means of the ribs attached on
each side, supports the vessel's frame. In an iron vessel, a
combination of plates supplies the place of the keel of a wooden
ship. See Illust. of Keelson.

2. Fig.: The whole ship.

3. A barge or lighter, used on the Type for carrying coal from
Newcastle; also, a barge load of coal, twentyone tons, four cwt.
[Eng.]

4. (Bot.)

Defn: The two lowest petals of the corolla of a papilionaceous
flower, united and inclosing the stamens and pistil; a carina. See
Carina.

5. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: A projecting ridge along the middle of a flat or curved
surface. Bilge keel (Naut.), a keel peculiar to ironclad vessels,
extending only a portion of the length of the vessel under the
bilges. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
 -- False keel. See under False.
 -- Keel boat. (a) A covered freight boat, with a keel, but no sails,
used on Western rivers. [U. S.] (b) A low, flat-bottomed freight
boat. See Keel, n., 3.
 -- Keel piece, one of the timbers or sections of which a keel is
composed. On even keel, in a level or horizontal position, so that
the draught of water at the stern and the bow is the same. Ham. Nav.
Encyc.

KEEL
Keel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Keeled; p. pr. & vb. n. Keeling.]

1. To traverse with a keel; to navigate.

2. To turn up the keel; to show the bottom. To keel over, to upset;
to capsize. [Colloq.]

KEELAGE
Keel"age, n. Etym: [Cf. F. guillage, fr. guille keel; of German or
Scand origin. See 3d Keel.]

Defn: The right of demanding a duty or toll for a ship entering a
port; also, the duty or toll. Bouvier. Wharton.

KEELED
Keeled, a.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Keel-shaped; having a longitudinal prominence on the back; as,
a keeled leaf.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a median ridge; carinate; as, a keeled scale.

KEELER
Keel"er, n. Etym: [See 3d Keel.]

1. One employed in managing a Newcastle keel; -- called also keelman.

2. A small or shallow tub; esp., one used for holding materials for
calking ships, or one used for washing dishes, etc.

KEELFAT
Keel"fat`, n. Etym: [Keel to cool + fat a large tub, a vat.]
(Brewing)

Defn: A cooler; a vat for cooling wort, etc. [Written also keelvat.]
Johnson.

KEELHAUL
Keel"haul`, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Keelhauled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Keelhauling.] Etym: [3d keel + haul: cf. LG. & D. kielhalen, G.
kielholen. ] [Written also keelhale.] (Naut.)

Defn: To haul under the keel of a ship, by ropes attached to the
yardarms on each side. It was formerly practiced as a punishment in
the Dutch and English navies. Totten.

KEELING
Kee"ling, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. keila, Sw. kolja, Dan. kulle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cod.

KEELIVINE
Kee"li*vine, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. cil ruddle.]

Defn: A pencil of black or red lead; -- called also keelyvine pen.
[Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

KEELMAN
Keel"man, n.; pl. -men (.

Defn: See Keeler,

1.

KEELRAKE
Keel"rake`, v. t. (Naut.)

Defn: Same as Keelhaul.

KEELS
Keels, n. pl.

Defn: Ninepins. See Kayles.

KEELSON
Keel"son, n. Etym: [Akin to Sw. kölsvin, Dan. kjölsviin, G.
kielschwein; apparently compounded of the words keel and swine; but
cf. Norweg. kjölsvill, where svill is akin to E. sill, n. ]
(Shipbuilding)

Defn: A piece of timber in a ship laid on the middle of the floor
timbers over the keel, and binding the floor timbers to the keel; in
iron vessels, a structure of plates, situated like the keelson of a
timber ship. Cross keelson, a similar structure lying athwart the
main keelson, to support the engines and boilers.

KEELVAT
Keel"vat`, n.

Defn: See Keelfat.

KEEN
Keen, a. [Compar. Keener; superl. Keenest.] Etym: [OE. kene sharp,
bold, AS.c bold; akin to D. koen, OHG. kuoni, G. kühn, OSw. kyn, kön,
Icel. kænn, for koenn wise; perh. akin to E. ken, can to be able.

1. Sharp; having a fine edge or point; as, a keen razor, or a razor
with a keen edge.
A bow he bare and arwes [arrows] bright and kene. Chaucer.
That my keen knife see not the wound it makes. Shak.

2. Acute of mind; sharp; penetrating; having or expressing mental
acuteness; as, a man of keen understanding; a keen look; keen
features.
To make our wits more keen. Shak.
Before the keen inquiry of her thought. Cowper.

3. Bitter; piercing; acrimonious; cutting; stinging; severe; as, keen
satire or sarcasm.
Good father cardinal, cry thou amen To my keen curses. Shak.

4. Piercing; penetrating; cutting; sharp; -- applied to cold, wind,
etc, ; as, a keen wind; the cold is very keen.
Breasts the keen air, and carols as he goes. Goldsmith.

5. Eager; vehement; fierce; as, a keen appetite. "Of full kene will."
Piers Plowman.
So keen and greedy to confound a man. Shak.

Note: Keen is often used in the composition of words, most of which
are of obvious signification; as, keen-edged, keen-eyed, keen-
sighted, keen-witted, etc.

Syn.
 -- Prompt; eager; ardent; sharp; acute; cutting; penetrating;
biting; severe; sarcastic; satirical; piercing; shrewd.

KEEN
Keen, v. t.

Defn: To sharpen; to make cold. [R.]
Cold winter keens the brightening flood. Thomson.

KEEN
Keen, n. Etym: [Ir. caoine.]

Defn: A prolonged wail for a deceased person. Cf. Coranach. [Ireland]
Froude.

KEEN
Keen, v. i.

Defn: To wail as a keener does. [Ireland]

KEENER
Keen"er, n.

Defn: A professional mourner who wails at a funeral. [Ireland]

KEENLY
Keen"ly, adv.

Defn: In a keen manner.

KEENNESS
Keen"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being keen.

KEEP
Keep, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kept; p. pr. & vb. n. Keeping.] Etym: [OE.
k, AS.c to keep, regard, desire, await, take, betake; cf. AS.
copenere lover, OE. copnien to desire.]

1. To care; to desire. [Obs.]
I kepe not of armes for to yelp [boast]. Chaucer.

2. To hold; to restrain from departure or removal; not to let go of;
to retain in one's power or possession; not to lose; to retain; to
detain.
If we lose the field, We can not keep the town. Shak.
That I may know what keeps me here with you. Dryden.
If we would weigh and keep in our minds what we are considering, that
would instruct us. Locke.

3. To cause to remain in a given situation or condition; to maintain
unchanged; to hold or preserve in any state or tenor.
His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal. Milton.
Keep a stiff rein, and move but gently on. Addison.

Note: In this sense it is often used with prepositions and adverbs,
as to keep away, to keep down, to keep from, to keep in, out, or off,
etc. "To keep off impertinence and solicitation from his superior."
Addison.

4. To have in custody; to have in some place for preservation; to
take charge of.
The crown of Stephanus, first king of Hungary, was always kept in the
castle of Vicegrade. Knolles.

5. To preserve from danger, harm, or loss; to guard.
Behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee. Gen. xxviii. 15.

6. To preserve from discovery or publicity; not to communicate,
reveal, or betray, as a secret.
Great are thy virtues . . . though kept from man. Milton.

7. To attend upon; to have the care of; to tend.
And the Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden,
to dress it and to keep it. Gen. ii. 15.
In her girlish age, she kept sheep on the moor. Carew.

8. To record transactions, accounts, or events in; as, to keep books,
a journal, etc. ; also, to enter (as accounts, records, etc. ) in a
book.

9. To maintain, as an establishment, institution, or the like; to
conduct; to manage; as, to keep store.
Like a pedant that keeps a school. Shak.
Every one of them kept house by himself. Hayward.

10. To supply with necessaries of life; to entertain; as, to keep
boarders.

11. To have in one's service; to have and maintain, as an assistant,
a servant, a mistress, a horse, etc.
I keep but three men and a boy. Shak.

12. To have habitually in stock for sale.

13. To continue in, as a course or mode of action; not to intermit or
fall from; to hold to; to maintain; as, to keep silence; to keep
one's word; to keep possession.
Both day and night did we keep company. Shak.
Within this portal as I kept my watch. Smollett.

14. To observe; to adhere to; to fulfill; not to swerve from or
violate; to practice or perform, as duty; not to neglect; to be
faithful to.
I have kept the faith. 2 Tim. iv. 7.
Him whom to love is to obey, and keep His great command. Milton.

15. To confine one's self to; not to quit; to remain in; as, to keep
one's house, room, bed, etc. ; hence, to haunt; to frequent. Shak.
'Tis hallowed ground; Fairies, and fawns, and satyrs do it keep. J.
Fletcher.

16. To observe duty, as a festival, etc. ; to celebrate; to
solemnize; as, to keep a feast.
I went with them to the house of God . . . with a multitude that kept
holyday. Ps. xlii. 4.
To keep at arm's length. See under Arm, n.
 -- To keep back. (a) To reserve; to withhold. "I will keep nothing
back from you." Jer. xlii. 4. (b) To restrain; to hold back. "Keep
back thy servant also from presumptuous sins." Ps. xix. 13.
 -- To keep company with. (a) To frequent the society of; to
associate with; as, let youth keep company with the wise and good.
(b) To accompany; to go with; as, to keep company with one on a
voyage; also, to pay court to, or accept attentions from, with a view
to marriage. [Colloq.] -- To keep counsel. See under Counsel, n.
 -- To keep down. (a) To hold in subjection; to restrain; to hinder.
(b) (Fine Arts) To subdue in tint or tone, as a portion of a picture,
so that the spectator's attention may not be diverted from the more
important parts of the work.
 -- To keep good (or bad) hours, to be customarily early (or late) in
returning home or in retiring to rest.
 -- To keep house. (a) To occupy a separate house or establishment,
as with one's family, as distinguished from boarding; to manage
domestic affairs. (b) (Eng. Bankrupt Law) To seclude one's self in
one's house in order to evade the demands of creditors.
 -- To keep one's hand in, to keep in practice.
 -- To keep open house, to be hospitable.
 -- To keep the peace (Law), to avoid or to prevent a breach of the
peace.
 -- To keep school, to govern, manage and instruct or teach a school,
as a preceptor.
 -- To keep a stiff upper lip, to keep up one's courage. [Slang] --
To keep term. (a) (Eng. Universities) To reside during a term. (b)
(Inns of Court) To eat a sufficient number of dinners in hall to make
the term count for the purpose of being called to the bar. [Eng.]
Mozley & W.
 -- To keep touch. See under Touch, n.
 -- To keep under, to hold in subjection; hence, to oppress.
 -- To keep up. (a) To maintain; to prevent from falling or
diminution; as, to keep up the price of goods; to keep up one's
credit. (b) To maintain; to continue; to prevent from ceasing. "In
joy, that which keeps up the action is the desire to continue it."
Locke.

Syn.
 -- To retain; detain; reserve; preserve; hold; restrain; maintain;
sustain; support; withhold.
 -- To Keep. Retain, Preserve. Keep is the generic term, and is often
used where retain or preserve would too much restrict the meaning;
as, to keep silence, etc. Retain denotes that we keep or hold things,
as against influences which might deprive us of them, or reasons
which might lead us to give them up; as, to retain vivacity in old
age; to retain counsel in a lawsuit; to retain one's servant after a
reverse of fortune. Preserve denotes that we keep a thing against
agencies which might lead to its being destroyed or broken in upon;
as, to preserve one's health; to preserve appearances.

KEEP
Keep, v. i.

1. To remain in any position or state; to continue; to abide; to
stay; as, to keep at a distance; to keep aloft; to keep near; to keep
in the house; to keep before or behind; to keep in favor; to keep out
of company, or out reach.

2. To last; to endure; to remain unimpaired.
If the malt be not thoroughly dried, the ale it makes will not keep.
Mortimer.

3. To reside for a time; to lodge; to dwell. [Now disused except
locally or colloquially.]
Knock at his study, where, they say, he keeps. Shak.

4. To take care; to be solicitous; to watch. [Obs.]
Keep that the lusts choke not the word of God that is in us. Tyndale.

5. To be in session; as, school keeps to-day. [Colloq.] To keep from,
to abstain or refrain from.
 -- To keep in with, to keep on good terms with; as, to keep in with
an opponent.
 -- To keep on, to go forward; to proceed; to continue to advance.
 -- To keep to, to adhere strictly to; not to neglect or deviate
from; as, to keep to old customs; to keep to a rule; to keep to one's
word or promise.
 -- To keep up, to remain unsubdued; also, not to be confined to
one's bed.

KEEP
Keep, n.

1. The act or office of keeping; custody; guard; care; heed; charge.
Chaucer.
Pan, thou god of shepherds all, Which of our tender lambkins takest
keep. Spenser.

2. The state of being kept; hence, the resulting condition; case; as,
to be in good keep.

3. The means or provisions by which one is kept; maintenance;
support; as, the keep of a horse.
Grass equal to the keep of seven cows. Carlyle.
I performed some services to the college in return for my keep. T.
Hughes.

4. That which keeps or protects; a stronghold; a fortress; a castle;
specifically, the strongest and securest part of a castle, often used
as a place of residence by the lord of the castle, especially during
a siege; the donjon. See Illust. of Castle.
The prison strong, Within whose keep the captive knights were laid.
Dryden.
The lower chambers of those gloomy keeps. Hallam.
I think . . . the keep, or principal part of a castle, was so called
because the lord and his domestic circle kept, abode, or lived there.
M. A. Lower.

5. That which is kept in charge; a charge. [Obs.]
Often he used of his keep A sacrifice to bring. Spenser.

6. (Mach.)

Defn: A cap for retaining anything, as a journal box, in place. To
take keep, to take care; to heed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KEEPER
Keep"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, keeps; one who, or that which, holds or
has possession of anything.

2. One who retains in custody; one who has the care of a prison and
the charge of prisoners.

3. One who has the care, custody, or superintendence of anything; as,
the keeper of a park, a pound, of sheep, of a gate, etc. ; the keeper
of attached property; hence, one who saves from harm; a defender; a
preserver.
The Lord is thy keeper. Ps. cxxi. 6.

4. One who remains or keeps in a place or position.
Discreet; chaste; keepers at home. Titus ii. 5.

5. A ring, strap, clamp, or any device for holding an object in
place; as: (a) The box on a door jamb into which the bolt of a lock
protrudes, when shot. (b) A ring serving to keep another ring on the
finger. (c) A loop near the buckle of a strap to receive the end of
the strap.

6. A fruit that keeps well; as, the Roxbury Russet is a good keeper.
Downing. Keeper of the forest (O. Eng. Law), an officer who had the
principal government of all things relating to the forest.
 -- Keeper of the great seal, a high officer of state, who has
custody of the great seal. The office is now united with that of lord
chancellor. [Eng.] -- Keeper of the King's conscience, the lord
chancellor; -- a name given when the chancellor was an ecclesiastic.
[Eng.] -- Keeper of the privy seal (styled also lord privy seal), a
high officer of state, through whose hands pass all charters,
pardons, etc., before they come to the great seal. He is a privy
councillor, and was formerly called clerk of the privy seal. [Eng.] -
- Keeper of a magnet, a piece of iron which connects the two poles,
for the purpose of keeping the magnetic power undiminished; an
armature.

KEEPERSHIP
Keep"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office or position of a keeper. Carew.

KEEPING
Keep"ing, n.

1. A holding; restraint; custody; guard; charge; care; preservation.
His happiness is in his own keeping. South.

2. Maintenance; support; provision; feed; as, the cattle have good
keeping.
The work of many hands, which earns my keeping. Milton.

3. Conformity; congruity; harmony; consistency; as, these subjects
are in keeping with each other.

4. (Paint.)

Defn: Harmony or correspondence between the different parts of a work
of art; as, the foreground of this painting is not in keeping.
Keeping room, a family sitting room. [New Eng. & Prov. Eng.]

Syn.
 -- Care; guardianship; custody; possession.

KEEPSAKE
Keep"sake`, n.

Defn: Anything kept, or given to be kept, for the sake of the giver;
a token of friendship.

KEESH
Keesh, n.

Defn: See Kish.

KEEVE
Keeve, n. Etym: [AS. c, fr. L. cupa a tub, cask; also, F. cuve. Cf.
Kive, Coop.]

1. (Brewing)

Defn: A vat or tub in which the mash is made; a mash tub. Ure.

2. (Bleaching)

Defn: A bleaching vat; a kier.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A large vat used in dressing ores.

KEEVE
Keeve, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Keeved; p. pr. & vb. n. Keeving.]

1. To set in a keeve, or tub, for fermentation.

2. To heave; to tilt, as a cart. [Prov. Eng.]

KEEVER
Keev"er, n.

Defn: See Keeve, n.

KEFFE-KIL
Kef"fe-kil, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Kiefekil.

KEFIR
Kef"ir, n.

Defn: An effervescent liquor like kumiss, made from fermented milk,
used as a food and as a medicine in the northern Caucasus. --
Ke*fir"ic (#), a.

KEFIR GRAINS
Kefir grains.

Defn: Small hard yellowish aggregations found in the Caucasus region,
and containing various yeasts and bacteria. They are used as a
ferment in preparing kefir.

KEG
Keg, n. Etym: [Earlier cag, Icel. kaggi; akin to Sw. kagge.]

Defn: A small cask or barrel.

KEILHAUITE
Keil"hauite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a brownish black color, related to titanite in
form. It consists chiefly of silica, titanium dioxide, lime, and
yttria.

KEIR
Keir, n.

Defn: See Kier.

KEITLOA
Keit*lo"a, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A black, two-horned, African rhinoceros (Atelodus keitloa). It
has the posterior horn about as long as the anterior one, or even
longer.

KELD
Keld, a. Etym: [Cf. Cavl.]

Defn: Having a kell or covering; webbed. [Obs.] Drayton.

KELE
Kele, v. t. Etym: [See Keel to cool.]

Defn: To cool. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KELL
Kell, n.

Defn: A kiln. [Obs.]

KELL
Kell, n. Etym: [A modification of kale.]

Defn: A sort of pottage; kale. See Kale, 2. Ainsworth.

KELL
Kell, n. Etym: [Cf. Caul.]

1. The caul; that which covers or envelops as a caul; a net; a fold;
a film. [Obs.]
I'll have him cut to the kell. Beau. & Fl.

2. The cocoon or chrysalis of an insect. B. Jonson.

KELOID
Ke"loid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Med.)

Defn: Applied to a variety of tumor forming hard, flat, irregular
excrescences upon the skin.
 -- n.

Defn: A keloid tumor.

KELOTOMY
Ke*lot"o*my, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Celotomy.

KELP
Kelp, n. Etym: [Formerly kilpe; of unknown origin.]

1. The calcined ashes of seaweed, -- formerly much used in the
manufacture of glass, now used in the manufacture of iodine.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Any large blackish seaweed.

Note: Laminaria is the common kelp of Great Britain; Macrocystis
pyrifera and Nereocystis Lutkeana are the great kelps of the Pacific
Ocean. Kelp crab (Zoöl.), a California spider crab (Epialtus
productus), found among seaweeds, which it resembles in color.
 -- Kelp salmon (Zoöl.), a serranoid food fish (Serranus clathratus)
of California. See Cabrilla.

KELPFISH
Kelp"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small California food fish (Heterostichus rostratus), living
among kelp. The name is also applied to species of the genus
Platyglossus.

KELPIE; KELPY
Kel"pie, Kel"py, n.; pl. Kelpies. Etym: [Cf. Gael. cailpeach,
calpach, colpach, a heifer, steer, colt, colpa a cow or horse.]
(Scotch Myth.)

Defn: An imaginary spirit of the waters, horselike in form, vulgarly
believed to warn, by preternatural noises and lights, those who are
to be drowned. Jamieson.

KELPWARE
Kelp"ware`, n.

Defn: Same as Kelp, 2.

KELSON
Kel"son, n.

Defn: See Keelson. Sir W. Raleigh.

KELT
Kelt, n.

Defn: See Kilt, n. Jamieson.

KELT
Kelt, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kult quilt.]

Defn: Cloth with the nap, generally of native black wool. [Scot.]
Jamieson.

KELT
Kelt, n.

Defn: A salmon after spawning. [Scot.]

KELT
Kelt, n.

Defn: Same as Celt, one of Celtic race.

KELTER
Kel"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. & Ir. cealt clothes, Gael. cealltair
spear, castle, cause, Prov. E. kilter tool, instrument. Cf. Kilt.]

Defn: Regular order or proper condition. [Written also kilter.]
[Colloq.]
If the organs of prayer be out of kelter or out of tune, how can we
pray Barrow.

KELTIC
Kelt"ic, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Celtic, a. & n.

KEMB
Kemb, n. t. [imp. & p. p. Kembed or Kempt (p. pr. & vb. n. Kembing.]
Etym: [OE.kemben, AS. cemban, fr. camb comb.]

Defn: To comb. [Obs.]
His longe hair was kembed behind his back. Chaucer.

KEMELIN
Kem"e*lin, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E.kemlin, kimlin, kimmel, a salting
tub, any tub, kembing a brewing tub, G. kumme bowl, basin, W. cwmman
a tub, brewing tub.]

Defn: A tub; a brewer's vessel. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KEMP; KEMPTY
Kemp, Kemp"ty, n.

Defn: Coarse, rough hair wool or fur, injuring its quality.

KEMPE
Kem"pe, a.

Defn: Rough; shaggy. [Obs.] "Kempe hairs." Chaucer.

KEMPS
Kemps, n. pl. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)

Defn: The long flower stems of the ribwort plantain (Plantago
Lanceolata). Dr. Prior.

KEMPT
Kempt,

Defn: p. p. of Kemb. B. Jonson.

KEN
Ken, n. Etym: [Perh. from kennel.]

Defn: A house; esp., one which is a resort for thieves. [Slang, Eng.]

KEN
Ken, n. t. [imp. & p. p. Kenned; p. pr. & vb. n. Kenning.] Etym:
[OE.kennen to teach, make known, know, AS. cennan to make known,
proclaim, or rather from the related Icel. kenna to know; akin to D.
& G. kennen to know, Goth. kannjan to make known; orig., a causative
corresponding to AS. cunnan to know, Goth. kunnan. sq. root45. See
Can to be able, Know.]

1. To know; to understand; to take cognizance of. [Archaic or Scot.]

2. To recognize; to descry; to discern. [Archaic or Scot.] "We ken
them from afar." Addison
'T is he. I ken the manner of his gait. Shak.

KEN
Ken, v. i.

Defn: To look around. [Obs.] Burton.

KEN
Ken, n.

Defn: Cognizance; view; especially, reach of sight or knowledge.
"Beyond his ken." Longfellow.
Above the reach and ken of a mortal apprehension. South.
It was relief to quit the ken And the inquiring looks of men. Trench.

KENDAL GREEN; KENDAL
Ken"dal green`, or; Ken"dal.

Defn: A cloth colored green by dye obtained from the woad-waxen,
formerly used by Flemish weavers at Kendal, in Westmoreland, England.
J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).
How couldst thou know these men in Kendal green Shak.

KENNEL
Ken"nel, n. Etym: [See Channel, Canal.]

Defn: The water course of a street; a little canal or channel; a
gutter; also, a puddle. Bp. Hall.

KENNEL
Ken"nel, n. Etym: [OE.kenel, (assumed) OF. kenil, F. chenil, LL.
canile, fr. L. canis a dog. Cf. Canine.]

1. A house for a dog or for dogs, or for a pack of hounds.
A dog sure, if he could speak, had wit enough to describe his kennel.
Sir P. Sidney.

2. A pack of hounds, or a collection of dogs. Shak.

3. The hole of a fox or other beast; a haunt.

KENNEL
Ken"nel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kenneled or Kennelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Kennelling.]

Defn: To lie or lodge; to dwell, as a dog or a fox.
The dog kenneled in a hollow tree. L'Estrange.

KENNEL
Ken"nel, v. t.

Defn: To put or keep in a kennel. Thomson.

KENNEL COAL
Ken"nel coal`

Defn: . See Cannel coal.

KENNING
Ken"ning, n. Etym: [See Ken, v. t.]

1. Range of sight. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. The limit of vision at sea, being a distance of about twenty
miles.

KENO
Ke"no, n. Etym: [F. quine five winning numbers, fr. L. quini five
each, quinque five. See Five.]

Defn: A gambling game, a variety of the game of lotto, played with
balls or knobs, numbered, and cards also numbered. [U. S.]

KENOGENESIS
Ken`o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: Modified evolution, in which nonprimitive characters make their
appearance in consequence of a secondary adaptation of the embryo to
the peculiar conditions of its environment; -- distinguished from
palingenesis. [Written also cænogenesis.]

KENOGENETIC
Ken`o*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to kenogenesis; as, kenogenetic processes.
 -- Ken`o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.

KENSPECKLE
Ken"spec`kle, a.

Defn: Having so marked an appearance as easily to be recognized.
[Scot.]

KENT BUGLE
Kent" bu"gle. Etym: [Probably named after a Duke of Kent.] (Mus.)

Defn: A curved bugle, having six finger keys or stops, by means of
which the performer can play upon every key in the musical scale; --
called also keyed bugle, and key bugle. Moore.

KENTLE
Ken"tle, n. Etym: [From Quintal.] (Com.)

Defn: A hundred weight; a quintal.

KENTLEDGE
Kent"ledge, n. Etym: [OF. cant edge, corner, D.kant. See Cant edge,
angle.] (Naut.)

Defn: Pigs of iron used for ballast. [Written also kintlidge.]

KENTUCKY
Ken*tuck"y, n.

Defn: One of the United States. Kentucky blue grass (Bot.), a
valuable pasture and meadow grass (Poa pratensis), found in both
Europe and America. See under Blue grass.
 -- Kentucky coffee tree (Bot.), a tall North American tree
(Gymnocladus Canadensis) with bipinnate leaves. It produces large
woody pods containing a few seeds which have been used as a
substitute for coffee. The timber is a very valuable.

KEPHALIN
Keph"a*lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: One of a group of nitrogenous phosphorized principles, supposed
by Thudichum to exist in brain tissue.

KEPI
Kep"i, n. [F. képi, of G. origin.]

Defn: A military cap having a close-fitting band, a round flat top
sloping toward the front, and a visor. As originally worn by the
French in Algeria about 1830 it was tall and stiff with a straight
visor. It is now lower, has a curved visor, and is frequently soft.

KEPT
Kept, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Keep. Kept mistress, a concubine; a woman supported by a man
as his paramour.

KEPVISELOHAZ
Kép"vi*se*lö*ház`, n. [Hung., fr. képviselö representative + ház
house.] (Hungary)

Defn: See Legislature.

KERAMIC
Ke*ram"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Ceramic.

KERAMICS
Ke*ram"ics, n.

Defn: Same as Ceramics.

KERAMOGRAPHIC
Ker`a*mo*graph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. graph + ic.]

Defn: Suitable to be written upon; capable of being written upon, as
a slate; -- said especially of a certain kind of globe. Scudamore.

KERANA
Ke*ra"na, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of long trumpet, used among the Persians. Moore (Encyc.
of Music).

KERARGYRITE
Ke*rar"gy*rite, n.

Defn: See Cerargyrite.

KERASIN
Ker"a*sin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance free from phosphorus, supposed to be
present in the brain; a body closely related to cerebrin.

KERASINE
Ker"a*sine, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Resembling horn; horny; corneous.

KERATIN
Ker"a*tin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance, or mixture of substances, containing
sulphur in a loose state of combination, and forming the chemical
basis of epidermal tissues, such as horn, hair, feathers, and the
like. It is an insoluble substance, and, unlike elastin, is not
dissolved even by gastric or pancreatic juice. By decomposition with
sulphuric acid it yields leucin and tyrosin, as does albumin. Called
also epidermose.

KERATITIS
Ker`a*ti"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the cornea.

KERATODE
Ker"a*tode, n.

Defn: See Keratose.

KERATOGENOUS
Ker`a*tog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. -genous.]

Defn: Producing horn; as, the keratogenous membrane within the horny
hoof of the horse.

KERATOIDEA
Ker`a*toi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Keratosa.

KERATOME
Ker"a*tome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for dividing the cornea in operations for
cataract.

KERATONYXIS
Ker`a*to*nyx"is, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The operation of removing a cataract by thrusting a needle
through the cornea of the eye, and breaking up the opaque mass.

KERATOPHYTE
Ker"a*to*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gorgonian coral having a horny axis.

KERATOSA
Ker`a*to"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of sponges having a skeleton composed of hornlike
fibers. It includes the commercial sponges.

KERATOSE
Ker"a*tose`, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A tough, horny animal substance entering into the composition
of the skeleton of sponges, and other invertebrates; -- called also
keratode.

KERATOSE
Ker"a*tose`, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Containing hornlike fibers or fibers of keratose; belonging to
the Keratosa.

KERAUNOGRAPH
Ke*rau"no*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. graph.]

Defn: A figure or picture impressed by lightning upon the human body
or elsewhere.
 -- Ker`au-nog"ra-phy, n.

KERB
Kerb, n.

Defn: See Curb.

KERBSTONE
Kerb"stone`, n.

Defn: See Curbstone.

KERCHER
Ker"cher, n.

Defn: A kerchief. [Obs.]
He became . . . white as a kercher. Sir T. North.

KERCHERED
Ker"chered, a.

Defn: Covered, or bound round, with a kercher. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.

KERCHIEF
Ker"chief, n.; pl. Kerchiefs. Etym: [OE. coverchef, OF. cuevrechief,
couvrechef, F. couvrechef, a head covering, fr. couvrir to cover +
OF. chief head, F. chef. See Cover, Chief, and cf. Curfew.]

1. A square of fine linen worn by women as a covering for the head;
hence, anything similar in form or material, worn for ornament on
other parts of the person; -- mostly used in compounds; as,
neckerchief; breastkerchief; and later, handkerchief.
He might put on a hat, a muffler, and a kerchief, and so escape.
Shak.
Her black hair strained away To a scarlet kerchief caught beneath her
chin. Mrs. Browning.

2. A lady who wears a kerchief. Dryden.

KERCHIEFED; KERCHIEFT
Ker"chiefed, Ker"chieft, a.

Defn: Dressed; hooded; covered; wearing a kerchief. Milton.

KERF
Kerf, n. Etym: [AS. cyrf a cutting off, fr. ceorfan to cut, carve.
See Carve.]

Defn: A notch, channel, or slit made in any material by cutting or
sawing.

KERITE
Ke"rite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A compound in which tar or asphaltum combined with animal or
vegetable oils is vulcanized by sulphur, the product closely
resembling rubber; -- used principally as an insulating material in
telegraphy. Knight.

KERL
Kerl, n.

Defn: See Carl.

KERMES
Ker"mes, n. Etym: [Ar. & Per. girmiz. See Crimson, and cf. Alkermes.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dried bodies of the females of a scale insect (Coccus
ilicis), allied to the cochineal insect, and found on several species
of oak near the Mediterranean. They are round, about the size of a
pea, contain coloring matter analogous to carmine, and are used in
dyeing. They were anciently thought to be of a vegetable nature, and
were used in medicine. [Written also chermes.]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A small European evergreen oak (Quercus coccifera) on which the
kermes insect (Coccus ilicis) feeds. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).
Kermes mineral. (a) (Old Chem.) An artificial amorphous trisulphide
of antimony; -- so called on account of its red color. (b) (Med.
Chem.) A compound of the trioxide and trisulphide of antimony, used
in medicine. This substance occurs in nature as the mineral
kermesite.

KERMESSE
Ker"messe, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Kirmess.

KERN
Kern, n. Etym: [Ir.ceatharnach.Cf. Cateran. ]

1. A light-armed foot soldier of the ancient militia of Ireland and
Scotland; -- distinguished from gallowglass, and often used as a term
of contempt. Macaulay.
Now for our Irish wars; We must supplant those rough, rug-headed
kerns. Shak.

2. Any kind of boor or low-lived person. [Obs.] Blount.

3. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: An idler; a vagabond. Wharton.

KERN
Kern, n. (Type Founding)

Defn: A part of the face of a type which projects beyond the body, or
shank.

KERN
Kern, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kerned; p. pr. & vb. n. Kerning. ] (Type
Founding)

Defn: To form with a kern. See 2d Kern.

KERN
Kern, n. Etym: [See Churn. ]

Defn: A churn. [Prov. Eng.]

KERN
Kern, n. Etym: [AS. cweorn, cwyrn. See Quern. ]

Defn: A hand mill. See Quern. Johnson.

KERN
Kern, v. i. Etym: [Cf. G. kern kernel, grain; akin to E. corn. See
Corn, Kernel. ]

1. To harden, as corn in ripening. [Obs.] Carew.

2. To take the form of kernels; to granulate. [Obs.]
It is observed that rain makes the salt kern. Dampier.

KERN BABY
Kern baby.

Defn: A doll or image decorated with corn (grain) flowers, etc.,
carried in the festivals of a kern, or harvest-home. Called also
harvest queen.

KERNED
Kerned, a. (Print.)

Defn: Having part of the face projecting beyond the body or shank; --
said of type. "In Roman, f and j are the only kerned letters."
MacKellar.

KERNEL
Ker"nel, n. Etym: [OE. kernel, kirnel, curnel, AS.cyrnel, fr. corn
grain. See Corn, and cf. Kern to harden.]

1. The essential part of a seed; all that is within the seed walls;
the edible substance contained in the shell of a nut; hence, anything
included in a shell, husk, or integument; as, the kernel of a nut.
See Illust. of Endocarp.
' A were as good crack a fusty nut with no kernel Shak.

2. A single seed or grain; as, a kernel of corn.

3. A small mass around which other matter is concreted; a nucleus; a
concretion or hard lump in the flesh.

4. The central, substantial or essential part of anything; the gist;
the core; as, the kernel of an argument.

KERNEL
Ker"nel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kerneled or Kernelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Kerneling or Kernelling.]

Defn: To harden or ripen into kernels; to produce kernels.

KERNELED; KERNELLED
Ker"neled, Ker"nelled, a.

Defn: Having a kernel.

KERNELLY
Ker"nel*ly, a.

Defn: Full of kernels; resembling kernels; of the nature of kernels.
Holland.

KERNISH
Kern"ish, a. Etym: [From Kern a boor.]

Defn: Clownish; booorish. [Obs.] "A petty kernish prince." Milton.

KEROLITE
Ker"o*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Same as Cerolite.

KEROSENE
Ker"o*sene`, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An oil used for illuminating purposes, formerly obtained from
the distillation of mineral wax, bituminous shale, etc., and hence
called also coal oil. It is now produced in immense quantities,
chiefly by the distillation and purification of petroleum. It
consists chiefly of several hydrocarbons of the methane series.

KERS; KERSE
Kers, Kerse, n.

Defn: A cress. [Obs.] Chaucer. Not worth a kers. See under Cress.

KERSEY
Ker"sey, n.; pl. Kerseys. Etym: [Prob. from the town of Kersey in
Suffolk, Eng.]

Defn: A kind of coarse, woolen cloth, usually ribbed, woven from wool
of long staple.

KERSEYMERE
Ker"sey*mere, n. Etym: [For cassimere, confounded with kersey.]

Defn: See Cassimere.

KERSEYNETTE
Ker`sey*nette", n.

Defn: See Cassinette.

KERSEYS
Ker"seys, n. pl.

Defn: Varieties of kersey; also, trousers made of kersey.

KERVE
Kerve, v. t.

Defn: To carve. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KERVER
Kerv"er, n.

Defn: A carver. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KESAR
Ke"sar, n.

Defn: See Kaiser [Obs.] Spenser.

KESLOP
Kes"lop, n. Etym: [AS.c, or c, milk curdled; cf. G. käselab,
käselippe. See Cheese, and cf.Cheeselep.]

Defn: The stomach of a calf, prepared for rennet. Halliwell.

KESS
Kess, v. t.

Defn: To kiss. [Obs.] Chaucer

KEST
Kest, imp.

Defn: of Cast. [Obs.]

KESTREL
Kes"trel, n. Etym: [See Castrel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, slender European hawk (Falco alaudarius), allied to
the sparrow hawk. Its color is reddish fawn, streaked and spotted
with white and black. Also called windhover and stannel. The name is
also applied to other allied species.

Note: This word is often used in contempt, as of a mean kind of hawk.
"Kites and kestrels have a resemblance with hawks." Bacon.

KET
Ket, n. Etym: [Icel. kjöt flesh; akin to Sw. kött, Dan. kjöd.]

Defn: Carrion; any filth. [Prob. Eng.] Halliwell.

KETA
Ke"ta, n. [Perh. of Amer. Indian origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) of inferior value, which in
the autumn runs up all the larger rivers between San Francisco and
Kamchatka.

KETCH
Ketch, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupted fr. Turk. qaiq : cf. F. caiche. Cf.
Caïque.] (Naut.)

Defn: An almost obsolete form of vessel, with a mainmast and a
mizzenmast, -- usually from one hundred to two hundred and fifty tons
burden. Bomb ketch. See under Bomb.

KETCH
Ketch, n.

Defn: A hangman. See Jack Ketch.

KETCH
Ketch, v. t. Etym: [See Catch.]

Defn: To catch. [Now obs. in spelling, and colloq. in pronunciation.]
To ketch him at a vantage in his snares. Spenser.

KETCHUP
Ketch"up, n.

Defn: A sauce. See Catchup.

KETINE
Ke"tine, n. Etym: [See Ketone.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of organic bases obtained by the reduction of
certain isonitroso compounds of the ketones. In general they are
unstable oily substances having a pungent aromatic odor.

KETMIE
Ket`mie", n. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of certain African species of Hibiscus, cultivated for
the acid of their mucilage. [Written also ketmia.]

KETOL
Ke"tol, n. Etym: [Ketone + indol.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of series of complex nitrogenous substances,
represented by methyl ketol and related to indol. Methyl ketol, a
weak organic base, obtained as a white crystalline substance having
the odor of fæces.

KETONE
Ke"tone, n. Etym: [Cf. Acetone.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a large class of organic substances resembling the
aldehydes, obtained by the distillation of certain salts of organic
acids and consisting of carbonyl (CO) united with two hydrocarbon
radicals. In general the ketones are colorless volatile liquids
having a pungent ethereal odor.

Note: The ketones are named by adding the suffix-one to the stems of
the organic acids from which they are respectively derived; thus,
acetic acid gives acetone; butyric acid, butyrone, etc.

KETONIC
Ke*ton"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, a ketone; as, a ketonic acid.

KETTLE
Ket"tle, n. Etym: [OE. ketel; cf. AS. cetel, cetil, cytel; akin to D.
kjedel, G. kessel, OHG. chezzil, Icel. ketill, SW. kittel, Dan.
kjedel, Goth. katils; all perh. fr. L. catillus, dim. of catinus a
deep vessel, bowl; but cf. also OHG. chezzi kettle, Icel. kati small
ship.]

Defn: A metallic vessel, with a wide mouth, often without a cover,
used for heating and boiling water or other liguids. Kettle pins,
ninepins; skittles. [Obs.] Shelton.
 -- Kettle stitch (Bookbinding), the stitch made in sewing at the
head and tail of a book. Knight.

KETTLEDRUM
Ket"tle*drum`, n.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A drum made of thin copper in the form of a hemispherical
kettle, with parchment stretched over the mouth of it.

Note: Kettledrums, in pairs, were formerly used in martial music for
cavalry, but are now chiefly confined to orchestras, where they are
called tympani.

2. An informal social party at which a light collation is offered,
held in the afternoon or early evening. Cf. Drum, n., 4 and 5.

KETTLEDRUMMER
Ket"tle*drum`mer, n.

Defn: One who plays on a kettledrum.

KEUPER
Keu"per, n. Etym: [G.] (Geol.)

Defn: The upper division of the European Triassic. See Chart of
Geology.

KEVEL
Kev"el, n. Etym: [Prov. E. kevil, cavel, rod, pole, a large hammer,
horse's bit; cf. Icel. kefli cylinder, a stick, mangle, and Dan.
kievle a roller.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A strong cleat to which large ropes are belayed.

2. A stone mason's hammer. [Written also cavil.] Kevel head (Naut.),
a projecting end of a timber, used as a kevel.

KEVEL; KEVIN
Kev"el, Kev"in, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gazelle.

KEVER
Kev"er, v. t. &

Defn: i. To cover. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KEVERCHIEF
Kev"er*chief, n.

Defn: A kerchief. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KEX
Kex, n. Etym: [W. cecys, pl., hollow stalks.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A weed; a kecksy. Bp. Gauden.
Though the rough kex break The starred mosaic. Tennyson.

2. A dry husk or covering.
When the kex, or husk, is broken, he proveth a fair flying butterfly.
Holland.

KEY
Key, n. Etym: [OE. keye, key, kay, AS. c

1. An instrument by means of which the bolt of a lock is shot or
drawn; usually, a removable metal instrument fitted to the mechanism
of a particular lock and operated by turning in its place.

2. An instrument which is turned like a key in fastening or adjusting
any mechanism; as, a watch key; a bed key, etc.

3. That part of an instrument or machine which serves as the means of
operating it; as, a telegraph key; the keys of a pianoforte, or of a
typewriter.

4. A position or condition which affords entrance, control, pr
possession, etc.; as, the key of a line of defense; the key of a
country; the key of a political situation. Hence, that which serves
to unlock, open, discover, or solve something unknown or difficult;
as, the key to a riddle; the key to a problem.
Those who are accustomed to reason have got the true key of books.
Locke.
Who keeps the keys of all the creeds. Tennyson.

5. That part of a mechanism which serves to lock up, make fast, or
adjust to position.

6. (Arch.)
(a) A piece of wood used as a wedge.
(b) The last board of a floor when laid down.

7. (Masonry)
(a) A keystone.
(b) That part of the plastering which is forced through between the
laths and holds the rest in place.

8. (Mach.)
(a) A wedge to unite two or more pieces, or adjust their relative
position; a cotter; a forelock. See Illusts. of Cotter, and Gib.
(b) A bar, pin or wedge, to secure a crank, pulley, coupling, etc.,
upon a shaft, and prevent relative turning; sometimes holding by
friction alone, but more frequently by its resistance to shearing,
being usually embedded partly in the shaft and partly in the crank,
pulley, etc.

9. (Bot.)

Defn: An indehiscent, one-seeded fruit furnished with a wing, as the
fruit of the ash and maple; a samara; -- called also key fruit.

10. (Mus.)
(a) A family of tones whose regular members are called diatonic
tones, and named key tone (or tonic) or one (or eight), mediant or
three, dominant or five, subdominant or four, submediant or six,
supertonic or two, and subtonic or seven. Chromatic tones are
temporary members of a key, under such names as " sharp four," "flat
seven," etc. Scales and tunes of every variety are made from the
tones of a key.
(b) The fundamental tone of a movement to which its modulations are
referred, and with which it generally begins and ends; keynote.
Both warbling of one song, both in one key. Shak.

11. Fig: The general pitch or tone of a sentence or utterance.
You fall at once into a lower key. Cowper.
Key bed. Same as Key seat.
 -- Key bolt, a bolt which has a mortise near the end, and is secured
by a cotter or wedge instead of a nut. Key bugle. See Kent bugle.
 -- Key of a position or country. (Mil.) See Key, 4.
 -- Key seat (Mach.), a bed or groove to receive a key which prevents
one part from turning on the other.
 -- Key way, a channel for a key, in the hole of a piece which is
keyed to a shaft; an internal key seat; -- called also key seat.
 -- Key wrench (Mach.), an adjustable wrench in which the movable jaw
is made fast by a key.
 -- Power of the keys (Eccl.), the authority claimed by the ministry
in some Christian churches to administer the discipline of the
church, and to grant or withhold its privileges; -- so called from
the declaration of Christ, "I will give unto thee the keys of the
kingdom of heaven." Matt. xvi. 19.

KEY
Key, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Keved; p. pr. & vb. n. Keying.]

Defn: To fasten or secure firmly; to fasten or tighten with keys or
wedges. Francis. To key up. (a) (Arch.) To raise (the whole ring of
an arch) off its centering, by driving in the keystone forcibly. (b)
(Mus.) To raise the pitch of. (c) Hence, fig., to produce nervous
tension in.

KEYAGE
Key"age, n. Etym: [OF.caiage, F. guayage. See lst Key, Quay.]

Defn: Wharfage; quayage.

KEYBOARD
Key"board`, n.

Defn: The whole arrangement, or one range, of the keys of an organ,
typewriter, etc.

KEY-COLD
Key"-cold`, a.

Defn: Cold as a metallic key; lifeless. [Formerly, a proverbial
expression.] Shak. Milton.

KEYED
Keyed (ked), a.

Defn: Furnished with keys; as, a keyed instrument; also, set to a
key, as a tune. Keyed bugle. See Kent bugle.

KEY FRUIT
Key fruit. (Bot.)

Defn: A samara.

KEYHOLE
Key"hole`, n.

1. A hole or apertupe in a door or lock, for receiving a key.

2.
(a) (Carp.) A hole or excavation in beams intended to be joined
together, to receive the key which fastens them.
(b) (Mach.) a mortise for a key or cotter. Keyhole limpet (Zoöl.), a
marine gastropod of the genus Fissurella and allied genera. See
Fissurella.
 -- Keyhole saw, a narrow, slender saw, used in cutting keyholes,
etc., as in doors; a kind of compass saw or fret saw.
 -- Keyhole urchin (Zoöl.), any one of numerous clypeastroid sea
urchins, of the genera Melitta, Rotula, and Encope; -- so called
because they have one or more perforations resembling keyholes.

KEYNOTE
Key"note`, n.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: The tonic or first tone of the scale in which a piece or
passage is written; the fundamental tone of the chord, to which all
the modulations of the piece are referred; -- called also key tone.

2. The fundamental fact or idea; that which gives the key; as, the
keynote of a policy or a sermon.

KEYSEAT
Key"seat`, v. t.

Defn: To form a key seat, as by cutting. See Key seat, under Key.

KEYSTONE
Key"stone`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The central or topmost stone of an arch. This in some styles is
made different in size from the other voussoirs, or projects, or is
decorated with carving. See Illust. of Arch. Keystone State, the
State of Pennsylvania; -- so called from its having been the central
State of the Union at the formation of the Constitution.

KEYSTONE STATE
Key"stone` State.

Defn: Pennsylvania; -- a nickname alluding to its having been the
central one of the 13 original United States.

KEY TONE
Key" tone`. (Mus.)

Defn: See Keynote.

KEYWAY
Key"way`, n.

Defn: See Key way, under Key.

KHAKI
Kha"ki (kä"ke), a. [Hind. khaki, lit., dusty, dust-colored, fr. Per.
khak dust.]

Defn: Of a dull brownish yellow, or drab color; -- applied to cloth,
originally to a stout brownish cotton cloth, used in making uniforms
in the Anglo-Indian army. In the United States service the summer
uniform of cotton is officially designated khaki; the winter uniform
of wool, olive drab.

KHAKI
Kha"ki, n.

Defn: Any kind of khaki cloth; hence, a uniform of khaki or, rarely,
a soldier clad in khaki. In the United States and British armies
khaki or cloth of a very similar color is almost exclusively used for
service in the field.

KHALIFF
Kha"liff, n.

Defn: See Caliph.

KHAMSIN
Kham*sin`, n.

Defn: Same as Kamsin.

KHAN
Khan, n. Etym: [Pers. & Tart. khan.] [Also kan, kaun.]

Defn: A king; a prince; a chief; a governor; -- so called among the
Tartars, Turks, and Persians, and in countries now or formerly
governed by them.

KHAN
Khan, n. Etym: [Per. khan, khanah, house, tent, inn.]

Defn: An Eastern inn or caravansary. [Written also kawn.]

KHANATE
Khan*ate (, n.

Defn: Dominion or jurisdiction of a khan.

KHAYA
Kha"ya, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A lofty West African tree (Khaya Senegalensis), related to the
mahogany, which it resembles in the quality of the wood. The bark is
used as a febrifuge.

KHEDIVE
Khe`dive", n. Etym: [F. khédive, Pers. khediw a prince.]

Defn: A governor or viceroy; -- a title granted in 1867 by the sultan
of Turkey to the ruler of Egypt.

KHENNA
Khen"na, n.

Defn: See Henna.

KHOLAH
Kho"lah, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Indian jackal.

KHOLSUN
Khol"sun (, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dhole.

KHOND
Khond, n.

Defn: A Dravidian of a group of tribes of Orissa, India, a section of
whom were formerly noted for their cruel human sacrifices to the
earth goddess, murder of female infants, and marriage by capture.

KHUTBAH
Khut"bah, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: An address or public prayer read from the steps of the pulpit
in Mohammedan mosques, offering glory to God, praising Mohammed and
his descendants, and the ruling princes.

KIABOOCA WOOD
Ki`a*boo"ca wood`

Defn: . See Kyaboca wood.

KIANG
Ki*ang", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dziggetai.

KIBBLE
Kib"ble, v. t.

Defn: To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats. [Prov.Eng.]
Halliwell.

KIBBLE
Kib"ble, n.

Defn: A large iron bucket used in Cornwall and Wales for raising ore
out of mines. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also kibbal.]

KIBBLINGS
Kib"blings, n. pl.

Defn: Portions of small fish used for bait on the banks of
Newfoundland.

KIBE
Kibe, n. Etym: [W. cib + gwst pain, sickness.]

Defn: A chap or crack in the flesh occasioned by cold; an ulcerated
chilblain. "He galls his kibe." Shak.

KIBED
Kibed, a.

Defn: Chapped; cracked with cold; affected with chilblains; as kibed
heels. Beau. & Fl.

KIBITKA
Ki*bit"ka, n.; pl. Kibitkas (. Etym: [Russ.]

1. A tent used by the Kirghiz Tartars.

2. A rude kind of Russian vehicle, on wheels or on runners, sometimes
covered with cloth or leather, and often used as a movable
habitation.

KIBLAH
Kib"lah (, n.

Defn: See Keblah.

KIBOSH
Ki"bosh, n.

1. Nonsense; stuff; also, fashion; style. [Slang]

2.  Portland cement when thrown or blown into the recesses of carved
stonework to intensify the shadows.

To put the kibosh on, to do for; to dispose of. [Slang]

KIBY
Kib"y, a.

Defn: Affected with kibes. Skelton.

KICHIL
Kich"il

Defn: ,. [Obs.] See Kechil. Chaucer.

KICK
Kick, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kicred; p. pr. & vb. n. Kicking.] Etym: [W.
cicio, fr. cic foot.]

Defn: To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horse
kicks a groom; a man kicks a dog.
He [Frederick the Great] kicked the shins of his judges. Macaulay.
To kick the beam, to fit up and strike the beam; -- said of the
lighter arm of a loaded balance; hence, to be found wanting in
weight. Milton.
 -- To kick the bucket, to lose one's life; to die. [Colloq. & Low]

KICK
Kick, v. i.

1. To thrust out the foot or feet with violence; to strike out with
the foot or feet, as in defense or in bad temper; esp., to strike
backward, as a horse does, or to have a habit of doing so. Hence,
figuratively: To show ugly resistance, opposition, or hostility; to
spurn.
I should kick, being kicked. Shak.

2. To recoil; -- said of a musket, cannon, etc.

KICK
Kick, n.

1. A blow with the foot or feet; a striking or thrust with the foot.
A kick, that scarce would more a horse, May kill a sound divine.
Cowper.

2. The projection on the tang of the blade of a pocket knife, which
prevents the edge of the blade from striking the spring. See Illust.
of Pocketknife.

3. (Brickmaking)

Defn: A projection in a mold, to form a depression in the surface of
the brick.

4. The recoil of a musket or other firearm, when discharged.

KICKABLE
Kick"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable or deserving of being kicked. "A kickable boy." G.
Eliot.

KICKAPOOS
Kick`a*poos", n. pl.; sing. Kickapoo (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region of
Northern Illinois, allied in language to the Sacs and Foxes.

KICKER
Kick"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, kicks.

KICKSHAW
Kick"shaw`, n.

Defn: See Kickshaws, the correct singular.

KICKSHAWS
Kick"shaws`, n.; pl. Kickshawses Etym: [Corrupt. fr. F. guelgue chose
something, fr. L. gualis of what kind (akin to E. which) + suffix -
guam + causa cause, in LL., a thing. See Which, and Cause.]

1. Something fantastical; any trifling, trumpery thing; a toy.
Art thou good at these kickshawses! Shak.

2. A fancy dish; a titbit; a delicacy.
Some pigeons, . . . a joint of mutton, and any pretty little tiny
kickshaws. Shak.
Cressy was lost by kickshaws and soup-maigre. Fenton.

KICKSHOE
Kick"shoe`, n.

Defn: A kickshaws. Milton.

KICKSY-WICKSY; KICKY-WISKY
Kick"sy-wick`sy, Kick"y-wisk`y, n.

Defn: That which is restless and uneasy.

Note: Kicky-wicky, or, in some editions, Kicksy-wicksy, is applied
contemptuously to a wife by Shakespeare, in "All's Well that Ends
Well," ii. 3, 297.

KICKSY-WICKSY
Kick"sy-wick`sy, a.

Defn: Fantastic; restless; as, kicksy-wicksy flames. Nares.

KICKUP
Kick"up, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The water thrush or accentor. [Local, West Indies]

KID
Kid, n. Etym: [Of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. ki, Dan. & Sw. kid; akin
to OHG. kizzi, G. kitz, kitzchen, kitzlein.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young goat.
The . . . leopard shall lie down with the kid. Is. xi. 6
.

2. A young child or infant; hence, a simple person, easily imposed
on. [Slang] Charles Reade.

3. A kind of leather made of the skin of the young goat, or of the
skin of rats, etc.

4. pl.

Defn: Gloves made of kid. [Colloq. & Low]

5. A small wooden mess tub; -- a name given by sailors to one in
which they receive their food. Cooper.

KID
Kid, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kidded; p. pr. & vb. n. Kidding.]

Defn: To bring forth a young goat.

KID
Kid, n. Etym: [Cf. W. cidysen.]

Defn: A fagot; a bundle of heath and furze. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

KID
Kid, p. p.

Defn: of Kythe. [Obs.] Gower. Chaucer.

KID
Kid, v. t.

Defn: See Kiddy, v. t. [Slang]

KIDDE
Kid"de, imp.

Defn: of Kythe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KIDDERMINSTER
Kid"der*min`ster, n.

Defn: A kind of ingrain carpeting, named from the English town where
formerly most of it was manufactured.

KIDDIER
Kid"di*er, n. Etym: [Cf. OSw. kyta to truck.]

Defn: A huckster; a cadger. [Obs.] Halliwell.

KIDDLE
Kid"dle, n. Etym: [Cf. LL.kidellus, Armor. kiael]

Defn: A kind of basketwork wear in a river, for catching fish.
[Improperly spelled kittle.]

KIDDOW
Kid"dow, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The guillemot. [Written also kiddaw.] [Prov. Eng.]

KIDDY
Kid"dy, v. t.

Defn: To deceive; to outwit; to hoax. [Slang] Dickens.

KIDDY
Kid"dy, n.

Defn: A young fellow; formerly, a low thief. [Slang, Eng.]

KIDDYISH
Kid"dy*ish, a.

Defn: Frolicsome; sportive. [Slang]

KIDFOX; KID-FOX
Kid"fox`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young fox Shak.

KIDLING
Kid"ling, n. Etym: [Kid +-ling: cf. Sw. kidling.]

Defn: A young kid.

KIDNAP
Kid"nap`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kidnaped or Kidnapped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Kidnaping or Kidnapping.] Etym: [Kid a child + Prov. E. nap to seize,
to grasp. Cf. Knab, Knap, Nab.]

Defn: To take (any one) by force or fear, and against one's will,
with intent to carry to another place. Abbott.
You may reason or expostulate with the parents, but never attempt to
kidnap their children, and to make proselytes of them. Whately.

Note: Originally used only of stealing children, but now extended in
application to any human being, involuntarily abducted.

KIDNAPER; KIDNAPPER
Kid"nap`er, or; Kid"nap`per, n.

Defn: One who steals or forcibly carries away a human being; a
manstealer.

KIDNEY
Kid"ney, n.; pl. Kidneys. Etym: [OE. kidnei, kidnere, from Icel. koi
belly, womb (akin to Goth. gipus, AS. cwip womb) + OE. nere kidney;
akin to D. nier, G. niere, OHG. nioro, Icel. n, Dan. nyre, Sw. njure,
and probably to Gr. (Kite belly.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A glandular organ which excretes urea and other waste products
from the animal body; a urinary gland.

Note: In man and in other mammals there are two kidneys, one each
side of vertebral column in the back part of the abdomen, each kidney
being connected with the bladder by a long tube, the ureter, through
which the urine is constantly excreted into the bladder to be
periodically discharged.

2. Habit; disposition; sort; kind. Shak.
There are in later other decrees, made by popes of another kidney.
Barrow.
Millions in the world of this man's kidney. L'Estrange.
Your poets, spendthrifts, and other fools of that kidney, pretend,
forsooth, to crack their jokes on prudence. Burns.

Note: This use of the word perhaps arose from the fact that the
kidneys and the fat about them are an easy test of the condition of
an animal as to fatness. "Think of that, -- a man of my kidney; -- .
. . as subject to heat as butter." Shak.

3. A waiter. [Old Cant] Tatler. Floating kidney. See Wandering
kidney, under Wandering.
 -- Kidney bean (Bot.), a sort of bean; -- so named from its shape.
It is of the genus Phaseolus (P. vulgaris). See under Bean.
 -- Kidney ore (Min.), a variety of hematite or iron sesquioxide,
occurring in compact kidney-shaped masses.
 -- Kidney stone. (Min.) See Nephrite, and Jade.
 -- Kidney vetch (Bot.), a leguminous herb of Europe and Asia
(Anthyllis vulneraria), with cloverlike heads of red or yellow
flowers, once used as a remedy for renal disorders, and also to stop
the flow of blood from wounds; lady's-fingers.

KIDNEY-FORM; KIDNEY-SHAPED
Kid"ney-form`, Kid"ney-shaped`, a.

Defn: Having the form or shape of a kidney; reniform; as, a kidney-
shaped leaf. Gray.

KIDNEYWORT
Kid"ney*wort`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A kind of saxifrage (Saxifrage stellaris).
(b) The navelwort.

KIE
Kie, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. Kee.]

Defn: Kine; cows. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

KIEFEKIL
Kie"fe*kil, n. Etym: [Per. keff foam, scum + gil clay, mud.] (Min.)

Defn: A species of clay; meerschaum. [Also written keffekil.]

KIER
Kier, n. Etym: [Icel. ker a tub.] (Bleaching)

Defn: A large tub or vat in which goods are subjected to the action
of hot lye or bleaching liquor; -- also called keeve.

KIESELGUHR
Kie"sel*guhr`, n. Etym: [G., fr. kiesel flint + guhr an earthy
deposit or sediment in water.]

Defn: Siliceous earth; specifically, porous infusorial earth, used as
an absorbent of nitroglycerin in the manufacture of dynamite.

KIESERITE
Kie"ser*ite. n. Etym: [Named after Prof. Kieser, of Jena.] (Min.)

Defn: Hydrous sulphate of magnesia found at the salt mines of
Stassfurt, Prussian Saxony.

KIEVE
Kieve, n.

Defn: See Keeve, n.

KIKE
Kike, v. i. Etym: [Cf. D. kijken, Sw. kika.]

Defn: To gaze; to stare. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KIKE
Kike, v. t. & i.

Defn: To kick [Obs.] Chaucer.

KILDERKIN
Kil"der*kin, n. Etym: [OD. kindeken, kinneken, a small barrel, orig.,
a little child, fr. kind child; akin to G.kind, and to E. kin.]

Defn: A small barrel; an old liquid measure containing eighteen
English beer gallons, or nearly twenty-two gallons, United States
measure. [Written also kinderkin.]

KILERG
Kil"erg`, n.  [Kilo- + erg.] (Physics)

Defn: A unit of work equal to one thousand ergs.

KILKENNY CATS
Kil*ken"ny cats.

Defn: Two cats fabled, in an Irish story, to have fought till nothing
was left but their tails. It is probably a parable of a local contest
between Kilkenny and Irishtown, which impoverished both towns.

KILL
Kill, n.

Defn: A kiln. [Obs.] Fuller.

KILL
Kill, n. Etym: [D. kil.]

Defn: A channel or arm of the sea; a river; a stream; as, the channel
between Staten Island and Bergen Neck is the Kill van Kull, or the
Kills; -- used also in composition; as, Schuylkill, Catskill, etc.

KILL
Kill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Killed; p. pr. & vb. n. Killing.] Etym:
[OE. killen, kellen, cullen, to kill, strike; perh. the same word as
cwellen, quellen, to kill (cf. Quell), or perh. rather akin to Icel.
kolla to hit in the head, harm, kollr top, summit, head, Sw. kulle,
D. kollen to kill with the ax.]

1. To deprive of life, animal or vegetable, in any manner or by any
means; to render inanimate; to put to death; to slay.
Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words ! Shak.

2. To destroy; to ruin; as, to kill one's chances; to kill the sale
of a book. "To kill thine honor." Shak.
Her lively color kill'd with deadly cares. Shak.

3. To cause to cease; to quell; to calm; to still; as, in seamen's
language, a shower of rain kills the wind.
Be comforted, good madam; the great rage, You see, is killed in him.
Shak.

4. To destroy the effect of; to counteract; to neutralize; as, alkali
kills acid. To kill time, to busy one's self with something which
occupies the attention, or makes the time pass without tediousness.

Syn.
 -- To murder; assassinate; slay; butcher; destroy.
 -- To Kill, Murder, Assassinate. To kill does not necessarily mean
any more than to deprive of life. A man may kill another by accident
or in self-defense, without the imputation of guilt. To murder is to
kill with malicious forethought and intention. To assassinate is
tomurder suddenly and by stealth. The sheriff may kill without
murdering; the duelist murders, but does not assassinate his
antagonist; the assassin kills and murders.

KILLDEE; KILLDEER
Kill"dee`, Kill"deer`, n. Etym: [So named from its notes.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small American plover (Ægialitis vocifera).

Note: It is dark grayish brown above; the rump and upper tail coverts
are yellowish rufous; the belly, throat, and a line over the eyes,
white; a ring round the neck and band across the breast, black.

KILLER
Kill"er, n.

1. One who deprives of life; one who, or that which, kills.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A voracious, toothed whale of the genus Orca, of which several
species are known.

Note: The killers have a high dorsal fin, and powerful jaws armed
with large, sharp teeth. They capture, and swallow entire, large
numbers of seals, porpoises, and dolphins, and are celebrated for
their savage, combined attacks upon the right whales, which they are
said to mutilate and kill. The common Atlantic species (Orca
gladiator), is found both on the European and the American coast. Two
species (Orca ater and O. rectipinna) occur on the Pacific coast.

KILLESSE
Kil*lesse", n. Etym: [Cf. Coulisse.] (Arch.)
(a) A gutter, groove, or channel.
(b) A hipped roof. [Prov. Eng.] Parker.

KILLIFISH
Kil"li*fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several small American cyprinodont fishes of the
genus Fundulus and allied genera. They live equally well in fresh and
brackish water, or even in the sea. They are usually striped or
barred with black. Called also minnow, and brook fish. See Minnow.

KILLIGREW
Kil"li*grew, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Cornish chough. See under Chough. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

KILLIKINICK
Kil`li*ki*nick", n.

Defn: See Kinnikinic.

KILLING
Kill"ing, a.

Defn: Literally, that kills; having power to kill; fatal; in a
colloquial sense, conquering; captivating; irresistible.
 -- Kill"ing*ly, adv.
Those eyes are made so killing. Pope.
Nothing could be more killingly spoken. Milton.

KILL-JOY
Kill"-joy`, n.

Defn: One who causes gloom or grief; a dispiriting person. W. Black.

KILLOCK
Kil"lock, n. Etym: [Cf. Scot.killick "the flue [fluke] of an anchor."
Jamieson.]

Defn: A small anchor; also, a kind of anchor formed by a stone
inclosed by pieces of wood fastened together. [Written also killick.]

KILLOW
Kil"low, n. Etym: [Prov. E. kollow the smut or grime on the backs of
chimneys.]

Defn: An earth of a blackish or deep blue color. Woodward.

KILN
Kiln, n. Etym: [OE.kilne, kulne, AS. cyln, cylen; akin to Icel.
kylna; prob. from the same source as coal. See Coal.]

1. A large stove or oven; a furnace of brick or stone, or a heated
chamber, for the purpose of hardening, burning, or drying anything;
as, a kiln for baking or hardening earthen vessels; a kiln for drying
grain, meal, lumber, etc.; a kiln for calcining limestone.

2. A furnace for burning bricks; a brickkiln.

KILN-DRY
Kiln"-dry`, v. t.

Defn: To dry in a kiln; as, to kiln-dry meal or grain. Mortimer.

KILNHOLE
Kiln"hole`, n.

Defn: The mouth or opening of an oven or kiln. Shak.

KILO
Ki"lo, n.; pl. Kilos. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An abbreviation of Kilogram.

KILO-
Kil"o-. [F. kilo-. See Kilogram.]

Defn: A combining form used to signify thousand in forming the names
of units of measurement; as, kilogram, kilometer, kilowatt, etc.

KILOGRAM; KILOGRAMME
Kil"o*gram, Kil"o*gramme, n. Etym: [F. kilogramme; pref. kilo- (fr.
Gr. chi`lioi a thousand ) + gramme. See 3d Gram.]

Defn: A measure of weight, being a thousand grams, equal to 2.2046
pounds avoirdupois (15,432.34 grains). It is equal to the weight of a
cubic decimeter of distilled water at the temperature of maximum
density, or 39º Fahrenheit.

KILOGRAMMETER; KILOGRAMMETRE
Kil"o*gram*me`ter, Kil"o*gram*me`tre, n. (Mech.)

Defn: A measure of energy or work done, being the amount expended in
raising one kilogram through the height of one meter, in the latitude
of Paris.

KILOLITER; KILOLITRE
Kil"o*li`ter, Kil"o*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. kilolitre. See Kilogram, and
Liter.]

Defn: A measure of capacity equal to a cubic meter, or a thousand
liters. It is equivalent to 35.315 cubic feet, and to 220.04 imperial
gallons, or 264.18 American gallons of 321 cubic inches.

KILOMETER; KILOMETRE
Kil"o*me`ter, Kil"o*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. kilometre. See Kilogram, and
Meter.]

Defn: A measure of length, being a thousand meters. It is equal to
3,280.8 feet, or 62137 of a mile.

KILOSTERE
Kil"o*stere`, n. Etym: [F.kilostere. See Kilogram, and Stere.]

Defn: A cubic measure containing 1000 cubic meters, and equivalent to
35,315 cubic feet.

KILOVOLT
Kil"o*volt`, n.  [Kilo- + volt.] (Elec.)

Defn: A unit of electromotive force equal to one thousand volts.

KILOWATT
Kil"o*watt, n. Etym: [See Kilogram and Watt.] (Elec.)

Defn: One thousand watts.

KILOWATT HOUR
Kil"o*watt` hour. (Elec.)

Defn: A unit of work or energy equal to that done by one kilowatt
acting for one hour; --approx. = 1.34 horse-power hour.

KILT
Kilt (,

Defn: p. p. from Kill. [Obs.] Spenser.

KILT
Kilt, n. Etym: [OGael. cealt clothes, or rather perh. fr. Dan. kilte
op to truss, tie up, tuck up.]

Defn: A kind of short petticoat, reaching from the waist to the
knees, worn in the Highlands of Scotland by men, and in the Lowlands
by young boys; a filibeg. [Written also kelt.]

KILT
Kilt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kilted; p. pr. & vb. n. Kilting.]

Defn: To tuck up; to truss up, as the clothes. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

KILTED
Kilt"ed, a.

1. Having on a kilt.

2. Plaited after the manner of kilting.

3. Tucked or fastened up; -- said of petticoats, etc.

KILTER
Kil"ter, n.

Defn: See Kelter.

KILTING
Kilt"ing, n. (Dressmaking)

Defn: A perpendicular arrangement of flat, single plaits, each plait
being folded so as to cover half the breadth of the preceding one.

KIMBO
Kim"bo, a. Etym: [Cf. Akimbo.]

Defn: Crooked; arched; bent. [Written also kimbow.] Dryden.

KIMMERIAN
Kim*me"ri*an, a.

Defn: See Cimmerian.

KIMNEL
Kim"nel, n.

Defn: A tub. See Kemelin. [Obs.]
She knew not what a kimnel was Beau. & Fl.

KIMONO
Ki*mo"no, n.; pl. -nos (#). [Jap.]

1. A kind of loose robe or gown tied with a sash, worn as an outer
garment by Japanese men and women.

2.  A similar gown worn as a dressing gown by women of Western
nations.

KIMRY
Kim"ry, n.

Defn: See Cymry.

KIN
kin (. Etym: [Of Low German origin; cf. G. -chen, LG.
 -- ken.]

Defn: A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin.

KIN
Kin, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A primitive Chinese instrument of the cittern kind, with from
five to twenty-five silken strings. Riemann.

KIN
Kin, n. Etym: [OE. kin, cun, AS. cynn kin, kind, race, people; akin
to cennan to beget, D. kunne sex, OS. & OHG. kunni kin, race, Icel.
kyn, Goth. kuni, G. & D. kind a child, L. genus kind, race, L.
gignere to beget, Gr. jan to beget. Kind, King, Gender kind, Nation.]

1. Relationship, consanguinity, or affinity; connection by birth or
marriage; kindred; near connection or alliance, as of those having
common descent.

2. Relatives; persons of the same family or race.
The father, mother, and the kinbeside. Dryden.
You are of kin, and so a friend to their persons. Bacon.

KIN
Kin, a.

Defn: Of the same nature or kind; kinder. "Kin to the king." Shak.

-KIN
-kin (-kin). [Of Low German origin; cf. G. -chen, LG. -- ken.]

Defn: A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin.

KINAESODIC
Kin`æ*sod"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Kinesodic.

KINAESTHESIS
Kin`æs*the"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: The perception attendant upon the movements of the muscles.
Bastian.

KINAESTHETIC; KINESTHETIC
Kin`æs*thet"ic, Kin`es*thet"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or involving, kinæsthesis.

KINATE
Ki"nate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. kinate. ] (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinate. [Obsolescent]

KINCOB
Kin"cob, n.

Defn: India silk brocaded with flowers in silver or gold.
 -- a.

Defn: Of the nature of kincob; brocaded. Thackeray.

KIND
Kind, a. [Compar. Kinder; superl. Kindest.] Etym: [AS. cynde,
gecynde, natural, innate, prop. an old p. p. from the root of E. kin.
See Kin kindred.]

1. Characteristic of the species; belonging to one's nature; natural;
native. [Obs.] Chaucer.
It becometh sweeter than it should be, and loseth the kind taste.
Holland.

2. Having feelings befitting our common nature; congenial;
sympathetic; as, a kind man; a kind heart.
Yet was he kind, or if severe in aught, The love he bore to learning
was his fault. Goldsmith.

3. Showing tenderness or goodness; disposed to do good and confer
happiness; averse to hurting or paining; benevolent; benignant;
gracious.
He is kind unto the unthankful and to evil. Luke vi 35.
O cruel Death, to those you take more kind Than to the wretched
mortals left behind. Waller.
A fellow feeling makes one wondrous kind. Garrick.

4. Proceeding from, or characterized by, goodness, gentleness, or
benevolence; as, a kind act. "Manners so kind, yet stately."
Tennyson.

5. Gentle; tractable; easily governed; as, a horse kind in harness.

Syn.
 -- Benevolent; benign; beneficent; bounteous; gracious; propitious;
generous; forbearing; indulgent; tender; humane; compassionate; good;
lenient; clement; mild; gentle; bland; obliging; friendly; amicable.
See Obliging.

KIND
Kind, n. Etym: [OE. kinde, cunde, AS. cynd. See Kind, a.]

1. Nature; natural instinct or disposition. [Obs.]
He knew by kind and by no other lore. Chaucer.
Some of you, on pure instinct of nature, Are led by kind t'admire
your fellow-creature. Dryden.

2. Race; genus; species; generic class; as, in mankind or humankind.
"Come of so low a kind." Chaucer.
Every kind of beasts, and of birds. James iii.7.
She follows the law of her kind. Wordsworth.
Here to sow the seed of bread, That man and all the kinds be fed.
Emerson.

3. Nature; style; character; sort; fashion; manner; variety;
description; class; as, there are several kinds of eloquence, of
style, and of music; many kinds of government; various kinds of soil,
etc.
How diversely Love doth his pageants play, And snows his power in
variable kinds ! Spenser.
There is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another
of fishes, and another of birds. I Cor. xv. 39.
Diogenes was asked in a kind of scorn: What was the matter that
philosophers haunted rich men, and not rich men philosophers Bacon.
A kind of, something belonging to the class of; something like to; --
said loosely or slightingly. In kind, in the produce or designated
commodity itself, as distinguished from its value in money.
Tax on tillage was often levied in kind upon corn. Arbuthnot.

Syn.
 -- Sort; species; class; genus; nature; style; character; breed;
set.

KIND
Kind, v. t. Etym: [See Kin.]

Defn: To beget. [Obs.] Spenser.

KINDERGARTEN
Kin"der*gar`ten, n. Etym: [G., lit., children's garden; kinder (pl.
of kind child, akin to E. kin kindred) + garten garden.]

Defn: A school for young children, conducted on the theory that
education should be begun by gratifying and cultivating the normal
aptitude for exercise, play, observation, imitation, and
construction; -- a name given by Friedrich Froebel, a German
educator, who introduced this method of training, in rooms opening on
a garden.

KINDERGARTNER
Kin"der*gart`ner, n.

Defn: One who teaches in a kindergarten.

KIND-HEARTED
Kind"-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Having kindness of nature; sympathetic; characterized by a
humane disposition; as, a kind-hearted landlord.
To thy self at least kind-hearted prove. Shak.

KIND-HEARTEDNESS
Kind"-heart`ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being kind-hearted; benevolence.

KINDLE
Kin"dle, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. kindlen, cundlen. See Kind.]

Defn: To bring forth young. [Obs.] Shak.
The poor beast had but lately kindled. Holland.

KINDLE
Kin`dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kindled; p. pr. & vb. n. Kindling.]
Etym: [Icel. kyndill candle, torch; prob. fr. L. candela; cf. also
Icel. kynda to kindle. Cf. Candle.]

1. To set on fire; to cause to burn with flame; to ignite; to cause
to begin burning; to start; to light; as, to kindle a match, or
shavings.
His breath kindleth coals. Job xii. 21.

2. Fig.: To inflame, as the passions; to rouse; to provoke; to excite
to action; to heat; to fire; to animate; to incite; as, to kindle
anger or wrath; to kindle the flame of love, or love into a flame.
So is a contentious man to kindle strife. Prov. xxvi. 21.
Nothing remains but that I kindle the boy thither. Shak.
Kindling her undazzled eyes at the full midday beam. Milton.
Could swell the soul to rage, or kindle soft desire. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Enkindle; light; ignite; inflame; provoke; excite; arouse; stir
up.

KINDLE
Kin"dle, v. i.

1. To take fire; to begin to burn with flame; to start as a flame.
When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither
shall the flame kindle upon thee. Is. xliii. 2.

2. Fig.: To begin to be excited; to grow warm or animated; to be
roused or exasperated.
On all occasions where forbearance might be called for, the Briton
kindles, and the Christian gives way. I. Taylor.

KINDLER
Kin"dler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, kindles, stirs up, or sets on
fire."Kindlers of riot." Gay.

KINDLESS
Kind"less, a

Defn: Destitute of kindness; unnatural.[Obs.] "Kindless villain."
Shak.

KINDLINESS
Kind"li*ness, n.

1. Natural inclination; natural course. [Obs.] Milton.

2. The quality or state of being kindly; benignity; benevolence;
gentleness; tenderness; as, kindliness of disposition, of treatment,
or of words.
In kind a father, but not in kindliness. Sackville.

3. Softness; mildness; propitiousness; as, kindliness of weather, or
of a season.
Fruits and corn are much advanced by temper of the air and kindliness
of seasons. Whitlock.

KINDLING
Kind"ling, n.

1. The of causing to burn, or of exciting or inflaming the passions.

2. pl.

Defn: Materials, easily lighted, for starting a fire.

KINDLY
Kind"ly, a. [Compar. Kindlier; superl. Kindliest.] Etym: [AS.
cyndelic. See Kind, n. ]

1. According to the kind or nature; natural. [R.]
The kindly fruits of the earth. Book of Com. Prayer.
An herd of bulls whom kindly rage doth sting. Spenser.
Whatsoever as the Son of God he may do, it is kindly for Him as the
Son of Man to save the sons of men. L. Andrews.

2. Humane; congenial; sympathetic; hence, disposed to do good to;
benevolent; gracious; kind; helpful; as, kindly affections, words,
acts, etc.
The shade by which my life was crossed, . . . Has made me kindly with
my kind. Tennyson.

3. Favorable; mild; gentle; auspicious; beneficent.
In soft silence shed the kindly shower. Pope.
Should e'er a kindlier time ensue. Wordsworth.

Note: "Nothing ethical was connoted in kindly once: it was simply the
adjective of kind. But it is God's ordinance that kind should be
kindly, in our modern sense of the word as well; and thus the word
has attained this meaning." Trench.

KINDLY
Kind"ly, adv.

1. Naturally; fitly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Examine how kindly the Hebrew manners of speech mix and incorporate
with the English language Addison.

2. In a kind manner; congenially; with good will; with a disposition
to make others happy, or to oblige.
Be kindly affectioned one to another, with brotherly love. Rom. xii.
10.

KINDNESS
Kind"ness, n. Etym: [From Kind. a.]

1. The state or quality of being kind, in any of its various senses;
manifestation of kind feeling or disposition beneficence.
I do fear thy nature; It is too full o' the milk of human kindness To
catch the nearest way. Shak.
Unremembered acts Of kindness and of love. Wordsworth.

2. A kind act; an act of good will; as, to do a great kindness.

Syn.
 -- Good will; benignity; grace; tenderness; compassion; humanity;
clemency; mildness; gentleness; goodness; generosity; beneficence;
favor.