

KINDRED
Kin"dred, n. Etym: [OE. kinrede, kynrede, kunreden (with excrescent
d), fr. AS. cunn kin, race + the termination to advise, G. rathen.
Cf. Hatred.]

1. Relationship by birth or marriage; consanguinity; affinity; kin.
Like her, of equal kindred to the throne. Dryden.

2. Relatives by blood or marriage, more properly the former;
relations; persons related to each other.
I think there's no man is secure But the queen's kindred. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Kin; kinsfolk; relatives; kinsmen; relations; relationship;
affinity.

KINDRED
Kin"dred, a.

Defn: Related; congenial; of the like nature or properties; as,
kindred souls; kindred skies; kindred propositions.
True to the kindred points of heaven and home. Wordsworth.

KINE
Kine, n. pl. Etym: [For older kyen, formed like oxen, fr. AS. c,
itself pl. of c cow. See Cow, and cf. Kee, Kie.]

Defn: Cows. "A herd of fifty or sixty kine." Milton.

KINEMATIC; KINEMATICAL
Kin`e*mat"ic, Kin`e*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to kinematics. Kinematic curves, curves
produced by machinery, or a combination of motions, as distinguished
from mathematical curves.

KINEMATICS
Kin`e*mat"ics, n. Etym: [Gr. ( (Physics)

Defn: The science which treats of motions considered in themselves,
or apart from their causes; the comparison and relation of motions.

Note: Kinematics forms properly an introduction to mechanics, as
involving the mathematical principles which are to be applied to its
data of forces. Nichol.

KINEPOX
Kine"pox`, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Cowpox. Kin"e*scope (, n.

Defn: See Kinetoscope.

KINESIATRICS
Kin`e*si*at"rics, n. Etym: [Gr. ( (Med.)

Defn: A mode of treating disease by appropriate muscular movements; -
- also termed kinesitherapy, kinesipathy, lingism, and the movement
cure.

KINESIPATHY
Kin`e*sip"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: See Kinesiatrics.

KINESIPATHY
Kin`e*sip"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: See Kinesiatrics.

KINESITHERAPY
Kin`e*si*ther"a*py, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: See Kinesiatrics.

KINESODIC
Kin`e*sod"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. kinésodigue.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Conveying motion; as; kinesodic substance; -- applied esp. to
the spinal cord, because it is capable of conveying doth voluntary
and reflex motor impulses, without itself being affected by motor
impulses applied to it directly.

KINETIC
Ki*net"ic, q. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Moving or causing motion; motory; active, as opposed to latent.
Kinetic energy. See Energy, n. 4.

KINETICS
Ki*net"ics, n. (Physics)

Defn: See Dynamics.

KINETOGENESIS
Ki*ne`to*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An instrument for producing curves by the combination of
circular movements; -- called also kinescope.

KINETOGRAPH
Ki*ne"to*graph, n. [Gr.  movable + -graph.] (Physics)
 (a) A camera for making chronophotographs.
 (b) A machine for the projection of chronophotographs upon a screen
for the purpose of producing the effect of an animated picture.
 (c) A combined animated-picture machine and phonograph in which
sounds appropriate to the scene are automatically uttered by the
latter instrument.

KINETOPHONE
Ki*ne"to*phone, n. [See Kinetic, Phone.]

Defn: A machine combining a kinetoscope and a phonograph synchronized
so as to reproduce a scene and its accompanying sounds.

KINETOSCOPE
Ki*ne"to*scope, n.

Defn: A machine, for the production of animated pictures, in which a
film carrying successive instantaneous views of a moving scene
travels uniformly through the field of a magnifying glass. The
observer sees each picture, momentarily, through a slit in a
revolving disk, and these glimpses, blended by persistence of vision,
give the impression of continuous motion.

KING
King (, n.

Defn: A Chinese musical instrument, consisting of resonant stones or
metal plates, arranged according to their tones in a frame of wood,
and struck with a hammer.

KING
King, n.Etym: [AS. cyng, cyning; akin to OS. kining, D. koning, OHG.
kining, G. könig, Icel. konungr, Sw. koning, OHG. kuning, Dan. konge;
formed with a patronymic ending, and fr. the root of E. kin; cf.
Icel. konr a man of noble birth. Kin.]

1. A chief ruler; a sovereign; one invested with supreme authority
over a nation, country, or tribe, usually by hereditary succession; a
monarch; a prince. "Ay, every inch a king." Shak.
Kings will be tyrants from policy, when subjects are rebels from
principle. Burke.
There was a State without king or nobles. R. Choate.
But yonder comes the powerful King of Day, Rejoicing in the east
Thomson.

2. One who, or that which, holds a supreme position or rank; a chief
among competitors; as, a railroad king; a money king; the king of the
lobby; the king of beasts.

3. A playing card having the picture of a king; as, the king of
diamonds.

4. The chief piece in the game of chess.

5. A crowned man in the game of draughts.

6. pl.

Defn: The title of two historical books in the Old Testament.

Note: King is often used adjectively, or in combination, to denote
preëminence or superiority in some particular; as, kingbird; king
crow; king vulture. Apostolic king.See Apostolic.
 -- King-at-arms, or King-of-arms, the chief heraldic officer of a
country. In England the king-at-arms was formerly of great authority.
His business is to direct the heralds, preside at their chapters, and
have the jurisdiction of armory. There are three principal kings-at-
arms, viz., Garter, Clarencieux, and Norroy. The latter (literally
north roy or north king) officiates north of the Trent.
 -- King auk (Zoöl.), the little auk or sea dove.
 -- King bird of paradise. (Zoöl.), See Bird of paradise.
 -- King card, in whist, the best unplayed card of each suit; thus,
if the ace and king of a suit have been played, the queen is the king
card of the suit.
 -- King Cole , a legendary king of Britain, who is said to have
reigned in the third century.
 -- King conch (Zoöl.), a large and handsome univalve shell (Cassis
cameo), found in the West Indies. It is used for making cameos. See
Helmet shell, under Helmet.
 -- King Cotton, a popular personification of the great staple
production of the southern United States.
 -- King crab. (Zoöl.) (a) The limulus or horseshoe crab. See
Limulus. (b) The large European spider crab or thornback (Maia
sguinado).
 -- King crow. (Zoöl.) (a) A black drongo shrike (Buchanga atra) of
India; -- so called because, while breeding, they attack and drive
away hawks, crows, and other large birds. (b) The Dicrurus
macrocercus of India, a crested bird with a long, forked tail. Its
color is black, with green and blue reflections. Called also devil
bird.
 -- King duck (Zoöl.), a large and handsome eider duck (Somateria
spectabilis), inhabiting the arctic regions of both continents.
 -- King eagle (Zoöl.), an eagle (Aquila heliaca) found in Asia and
Southeastern Europe. It is about as large as the golden eagle. Some
writers believe it to be the imperial eagle of Rome.
 -- King hake (Zoöl.), an American hake (Phycis regius), fond in deep
water along the Atlantic coast.
 -- King monkey (Zoöl.), an African monkey(Colobus polycomus),
inhabiting Sierra Leone.
 -- King mullet (Zoöl.), a West Indian red mullet (Upeneus
maculatus); -- so called on account of its great beauty. Called also
goldfish.
 -- King of terrors, death.
 -- King parrakeet (Zoöl.), a handsome Australian parrakeet
(Platycercys scapulatus), often kept in a cage. Its prevailing color
is bright red, with the back and wings bright green, the rump blue,
and tail black.
 -- King penguin (Zoöl.), any large species of penguin of the genus
Aptenodytes; esp., A. longirostris, of the Falkland Islands and
Kerguelen Land, and A. Patagonica , of Patagonia.
 -- King rail (Zoöl.), a small American rail (Rallus elegans), living
in fresh-water marshes. The upper parts are fulvous brown, striped
with black; the breast is deep cinnamon color.
 -- King salmon (Zoöl.), the quinnat. See Quinnat.
 -- King's, or Queen's, counsel (Eng. Law), barristers learned in the
law, who have been called within the bar, and selected to be the
king's or gueen's counsel. They answer in some measure to the
advocates of the revenue (advocati fisci) among the Romans. They can
not be employed against the crown without special license. Wharton's
Law Dict.
 -- King's cushion, a temporary seat made by two persons crossing
their hands. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
 -- The king's English, correct or current language of good speakers;
pure English. Shak.
 -- King's or Queen's, evidence, testimony in favor of the Crown by a
witness who confesses his guilt as an accomplice. See under Evidence.
[Eng.] -- King's evil, scrofula; -- so called because formerly
supposed to be healed by the touch of a king.
 -- King snake (Zoöl.), a large, nearly black, harmless snake
(Ophiobolus getulus) of the Southern United States; -- so called
because it kills and eats other kinds of snakes, including even the
rattlesnake.
 -- King's spear (Bot.), the white asphodel (Asphodelus albus).
 -- King's yellow, a yellow pigment, consisting essentially of
sulphide and oxide of arsenic; -- called also yellow orpiment.
 -- King tody (Zoöl.), a small fly-catching bird (Eurylaimus
serilophus) of tropical America. The head is adorned with a large,
spreading, fan-shaped crest, which is bright red, edged with black.
 -- King vulture (Zoöl.), a large species of vulture (Sarcorhamphus
papa), ranging from Mexico to Paraguay, The general color is white.
The wings and tail are black, and the naked carunculated head and the
neck are briliantly colored with scarlet, yellow, orange, and blue.
So called because it drives away other vultures while feeding.
 -- King wood, a wood from Brazil, called also violet wood,
beautifully streaked in violet tints, used in turning and small
cabinetwork. The tree is probably a species of Dalbergia. See
Jacaranda.

KING
King, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kinged; p. pr. & vb. n. Kinging). ]

Defn: To supply with a king; to make a king of; to raise to royalty.
[R.] Shak.
Those traitorous captains of Israel who kinged themselves by slaying
their masters and reigning in their stead. South.

KINGBIRD
King"bird, n. (Zoöl.)

1. A small American bird (Tyrannus, or T. Carolinensis), noted for
its courage in attacking larger birds, even hawks and eagles,
especially when they approach its nest in the breeding season. It is
a typical tyrant flycatcher, taking various insects upon the wing. It
is dark ash above, and blackish on the bead and tail. The quills and
wing coverts are whitish at the edges. It is white beneath, with a
white terminal band on the tail. The feathers on the head of the
adults show a bright orange basal spot when erected. Called also bee
bird, and bee martin. Several Southern and Western species of
Tyrannus are also called king birds.

2. The king tody. See under King.

KINGBOLT
King"bolt`, n.

Defn: A vertical iron bolt, by which the forward axle and wheels of a
vehicle or the trucks of a railroad car are connected with the other
parts.

KING CHARLES SPANIEL
King Charles span"iel. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A variety of small pet dogs, having, drooping ears, a high,
dome-shaped forehead, pug nose, large, prominent eyes, and long, wavy
hair. The color is usually black and tan.

KINGCRAFT
King"craft, n.

Defn: The craft of kings; the art of governing as a sovereign; royal
policy. Prescott.

KINGCUP
King"cup`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The common buttercup.

KINGDOM
King"dom, n. Etym: [AS. cyningd. See 2d King, and -dom.]

1. The rank, quality, state, or attributes of a king; royal
authority; sovereign power; rule; dominion; monarchy.
Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Ps. cxiv. 13.
When Jehoram was risen up to the kingdom of his father, he
strengthened himself. 2 Chron. xxi. 4.

2. The territory or country subject to a king or queen; the dominion
of a monarch; the sphere in which one is king or has control.
Unto the kingdom of perpetual night. Shak.
You're welcome, Most learned reverend sir, into our kingdom. Shak.

3. An extensive scientific division distinguished by leading or
ruling characteristics; a principal division; a department; as, the
mineral kingdom. "The animal and vegetable kingdoms." Locke.
Animal kingdom. See under Animal.
 -- Kingdom of God. (a) The universe. (b) That spiritual realm of
which God is the acknowledged sovereign. (c) The authority or
dominion of God.
 -- Mineral kingdom. See under Mineral.
 -- United Kingdom. See under United.
 -- Vegetable kingdom. See under Vegetable.

Syn.
 -- Realm; empire; dominion; monarchy; sovereignty; domain.

KINGDOMED
King"domed, a.

Defn: Having a kingdom or the dignity of a king; like a kingdom. [R.]
"Twixt his mental and his active parts, Kingdom'd Achilles in
commotion rages And batters down himself. Shak.

KINGFISH
King"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) An American marine food fish of the genus Menticirrus, especially
M. saxatilis, or M. nebulosos, of the Atlantic coast; -- called also
whiting, surf whiting, and barb.
(b) The opah.
(c) The common cero; also, the spotted cero. See Cero.
(d) The queenfish.

KINGFISHER
King"fish`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of birds constituting the family
Alcedinidæ. Most of them feed upon fishes which they capture by
diving and seizing then with the beak; others feed only upon
reptiles, insects, etc. About one hundred and fifty species are
known. They are found in nearly all parts of the world, but are
particularly abundant in the East Indies.

Note: The belted king-fisher of the United States (Ceryle alcyon)
feeds upon fishes. It is slate-blue above, with a white belly and
breast, and a broad white ring around the neck. A dark band crosses
the breast. The common European species (Alcedo ispida), which is
much smaller and brighter colored, is also a fisher. See Alcedo. The
wood kingfishers (Halcyones), which inhabit forests, especially in
Africa, feed largely upon insects, but also eat reptiles, snails, and
small Crustacea, as well as fishes. The giant kingfisher of Australia
feeds largely upon lizards and insects. See Laughing jackass, under
Laughing.

KINGHOOD
King"hood, n.

Defn: The state of being a king; the attributes of a king; kingship.
Gower.

KINGLESS
King"less, a.

Defn: Having no king. F. Lieber.

KINGLET
King"let, n.

1. A little king; a weak or insignificant king. Carlyle.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small singing birds of the genus
Regulus and family Sylviidæ.

Note: The golden-crowned kinglet (Regulus satrapa), and the
rubycrowned kinglet (R. calendula), are the most common American
species. The common English kinglet (R. cristatus) is also called
golden-crested wren, moonie, and marigold finch. The kinglets are
often popularly called wrens, both in America and England.

KINGLIHOOD
King"li*hood, n.

Defn: King-liness. Tennyson.

KINGLINESS
King"li*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being kingly.

KINGLING
King"ling, n.

Defn: Same as Kinglet, 1. Churchill.

KINGLY
King"ly, a. [Compar. Kinglier; superl. Kingliest.]

Defn: Belonging to, suitable to, or becoming, a king; characteristic
of, resembling, a king; directed or administered by a king;
monarchical; royal; sovereign; regal; august; noble; grand. "Kingly
magnificence." Sir P. Sidney. "A kingly government." Swift. "The
kingly couch." Shak.
The kingliest kings are crowned with thorn. G. Massey.
Leave kingly backs to cope with kingly cares. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Regal; royal; monarchical; imperial; august; sovereign; noble;
splendid.
 -- Kingly, Regal. Kingly is Anglo-Saxon, and refers especially to
the character of a king; regal is Latin, and now relates more to his
office. The former is chiefly used of dispositions, feelings, and
purposes which are kinglike; as, kingly sentiments; kingly
condescension; " a kingly heart for enterprises." Sir P. Sidney. The
latter is oftener applied to external state, pomp, etc.; as, regal
state, regal title, etc. This distinction is not observed by our
early writers, but is gaining ground.

KINGLY
King"ly, adv.

Defn: In a kingly or kinglike manner. Shak.
Low bowed the rest; he, kingly, did but nod. Pore.

Note: Although this citation, one from Paradise Lost, and one from
Shakespeare's ll4th Sonnet are given by lexicographers as examples of
adverbial use, it is by no means clear that the word is not an
adjective in each instance.

KING-POST
King"-post`, n. (Carp.)

Defn: A member of a common form of truss, as a roof truss. It is
strictly a tie, intended to prevent the sagging of the tiebeam in the
middle. If there are struts, supporting the main rafters, they often
bear upon the foot of the king-post. Called also crown-post.

KING'S BENCH
King's Bench. (Law)

Defn: Formerly, the highest court of common law in England; -- so
called because the king used to sit there in person. It consisted of
a chief justice and four puisne, or junior, justices. During the
reign of a queen it was called the Queen's Bench. Its jurisdiction
was transferred by the judicature acts of 1873 and 1875 to the high
court of justice created by that legislation.

KINGSHIP
King"ship, n.

Defn: The state, office, or dignity of a king; royalty. Landor.

KINGSTON; KINGSTONE
King"ston, King"stone`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The black angel fish. See Angel fish, under Angel.

KINGSTON METAL
King"ston met"al

Defn: . An alloy of tin, copper, and mercury, sometimes used for the
bearings and packings of machinery. McElrath.

KINGSTON VALVE
King"ston valve. (Marine Steam Engin.)

Defn: A conical valve, opening outward, to close the mouth of a pipe
which passes through the side of a vessel below the water line.

KINGTRUSS
King"truss`. (Carp.)

Defn: A truss, framed with a king-post; -- used in roofs, bridges,
etc.

KINIC
Ki"nic, a. Etym: [Cf. F.kinique.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinic.

KINIT
Kin"it, n. [Gr.  to move.] (Physics)

Defn: A unit of force equal to the force which, acting for one
second, will give a pound a velocity of one foot per second; --
proposed by J.D.Everett, an English physicist.

KINK
Kink, n. Etym: [D. kink a bend or turn, or Sw. kink.]

1. A twist or loop in a rope or thread, caused by a spontaneous
doubling or winding upon itself; a close loop or curl; a doubling in
a cord.

2. An unreasonable notion; a crotchet; a whim; a caprice. [Colloq.]
Cozzens.

KINK
Kink, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Kinking.]

Defn: To wind into a kink; to knot or twist spontaneously upon
itself, as a rope or thread.

KINK
Kink, n. Etym: [Cf. Chincough, Kink-haust.]

Defn: A fit of coughing; also, a convulsive fit of laughter. [Scot.]

KINKAJOU
Kin"ka*jou`, n. Etym: [F. kinkajou, quincajou, from the native
American name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A nocturnal carnivorous mammal (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) of
South America, about as large as a full-grown cat. It has a
prehensile tail and lives in trees. It is the only representative of
a distinct family (Cercoleptidæ) allied to the raccoons. Called also
potto, and honey bear.

KINKHAUST
Kink"haust`, n. Etym: [Prov. E. kink to gasp (cf. Chin cough) + haust
a cough (akin to E. wheeze).]

Defn: Whooping cough. [Obs.or Prov. Eng.]

KINKLE
Kin"kle, n.

Defn: Same as 3d Kink.

KINKY
Kink"y, a.

1. Full of kinks; liable to kink or curl; as, kinky hair.

2. Queer; eccentric; crotchety. [Colloq. U.S.]

KINNIKINIC
Kin`ni*ki*nic", n. Etym: [Indian, literally, a mixture.]

Defn: Prepared leaves or bark of certain plants; -- used by the
Indians of the Northwest for smoking, either mixed with tobacco or as
a substitute for it. Also, a plant so used, as the osier cornel
(Cornus stolonijra), and the bearberry (Arctostaphylus Uva-ursi).
[Spelled also kinnickinnick and killikinick.]

KINO
Ki"no, n.

Defn: The dark red dried juice of certain plants, used variously in
tanning, in dyeing, and as an astringent in medicine.

Note: The chief supply is from an East Indian leguminous tree, the
Pterocarpus Marsupium. Other sources are the African Pterocarpus
erinaceus, the tropical American sea grape (Coccoloba uvifera), and
several Australian Eucalypti. See Botany bay kino, under Botany bay,
Gum butea, under Gum, and Eucalyptus.

KINOLOGY
Ki*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That branch of physics which treats of the laws of motion, or
of moving bodies.

KINONE
Ki"none, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Quinone.

KINOYL
Ki"noyl, n. (Chem.) [Obs.]

Defn: See Quinoyl.

KINREDE
Kin"rede, n.

Defn: Kindred. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KINSFOLK
Kins"folk`, n.

Defn: Relatives; kindred; kin; persons of the same family or closely
or closely related families.
They sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance. Luke ii. 44.

KINSHIP
Kin"ship, n.

Defn: Family relationship.

KINSMAN
Kins"man, n.; pl. Kinsmen (.

Defn: A man of the same race or family; one related by blood.

KINSMANSHIP
Kins"man*ship, n.

Defn: Kinship. Thackeray.

KINSWOMAN
Kins"wom`an, n.; pl. Kinswomen (.

Defn: A female relative. Shak.

KINTLIDGE
Kint"lidge, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Kentledge.

KIOSK
Ki*osk", n. Etym: [Turk. kiushk, kiöshk, Per. k.]

Defn: A Turkish open summer house or pavilion, supported by pillars.

KIOWAYS
Ki"o*ways`, n. pl.; sing. Kioway (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians distantly related to the Shoshones. They
formerly inhabited the region about the head waters of the North
Platte.

KIP
Kip, n.

Defn: The hide of a young or small beef creature, or leather made
from it; kipskin. Kip leather. See Kipskin.

KIPE
Kipe, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. kipen to catch, Icel. kippa to pull, snatch.
Cf. Kipper.]

Defn: An osier basket used for catching fish. [Prov. Eng.]

KIPPER
Kip"per, n. Etym: [D. kippen to hatch, snatch, seize. Cf. Kipe.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A salmon after spawning.

2. A salmon split open, salted, and dried or smoked; -- so called
because salmon after spawning were usually so cured, not being good
when fresh. [Scot.] Kipper time, the season in which fishing for
salmon is forbidden. [Eng. & Scot.]

KIPPER
Kip"per, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kippered; p. pr. & vb. n. Kippering.]

Defn: To cure, by splitting, salting, and smoking. "Kippered salmon."
Dickens.

KIPPER
Kip"per, a.

Defn: Amorous; also, lively; light-footed; nimble; gay; sprightly.
[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

KIPPERNUT
Kip"per*nut`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to earthnuts of several kinds.

KIPSKIN
Kip"skin`, n. Etym: [Kip + skin.]

Defn: Leather prepared from the skin of young or small cattle,
intermediate in grade between calfskin and cowhide.

KIRK
Kirk, n. Etym: [Scot.; cf. Icel. kirkja, of Greek origin. See
Church.]

Defn: A church or the church, in the various senses of the word;
esp., the Church of Scotland as distinguished from other reformed
churches, or from the Roman Catholic Church. [Scot.] Jamieson.

KIRKED
Kirked, a. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Turned upward; bent. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

KIRKMAN
Kirk"man, n.; pl. Kirkmen (.

1. A clergyman or officer in a kirk. [Scot.]

2. A member of the Church of Scotland, as distinguished from a member
of another communion. [Scot.]

KIRKYARD
Kirk"yard`, n.

Defn: A churchyard. [Scot.]

KIRMESS
Kir"mess, n. Etym: [D. kermis; cf. G. kirmes; prop., church mass. See
Church, and Mass a religious service.]

Defn: In Europe, particularly in Belgium and Holland, and outdoor
festival and fair; in the United States, generally an indoor
entertainment and fair combined.

KIRSCHWASSER
Kirsch"was`ser, n. Etym: [G., fr. kirsche cherry + wasser water.]

Defn: An alcoholic liquor, obtained by distilling the fermented juice
of the small black cherry.

KIRSOME
Kir"some, a. Etym: [Corrupted from chrisom.]

Defn: Christian; christened. [Obs.]
I am a true kirsome woman. Beau. & Fl.

KIRTLE
Kir"tle, n. Etym: [OE. kirtel, curtel, AS. cyrtel; skin to Icel.
kyrtill, Sw. kjortel, Dan. kiortel, kiole.]

Defn: A garment varying in form and use at different times, and worn
doth by men and women.
Wearing her Norman car, and her kirtle of blue. Longfellow.

Note: The term is still retained in the provinces, in the sense of "
an outer petticoat." Halliwell.

KIRTLED
Kir"tled, a.

Defn: Wearing a kirtle. Byron.

KIRUMBO
Ki*rum"bo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of Madagascar (Leptosomus discolor), the only living
type of a family allied to the rollers. It has a pair of loral
plumes. The male is glossy green above, with metallic reflections;
the female is spotted with brown and black.

KISH
Kish, n. Etym: [Cf. G. kies gravel, pyrites.] (Min.)

Defn: A workman's name for the graphite which forms incidentally in
iron smelting.

KISMET
Kis"met, n. Etym: [Per. qismat.]

Defn: Destiny; fate. [Written also kismat.] [Oriental]

KISS
Kiss, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kissed;p. pr. & vb. n. Kissing.] Etym: [OE.
kissen, cussen, AS. cyssan, fr. coss a kiss; of uncertain origin;
akin to D. kus, G. kuss, Icel. koss.]

1. To salute with the lips, as a mark of affection, reverence,
submission, forgiveness, etc.
He . . . kissed her lips with such a clamorous smack, That at the
parting all the church echoed. Shak.

2. To touch gently, as if fondly or caressingly.
When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees. Shak.

KISS
Kiss, v. i.

1. To make or give salutation with the lips in token of love,
respect, etc.; as, kiss and make friends.

2. To meet; to come in contact; to touch fondly.
Like fire and powder, Which as they kiss consume. Shak.
Rose, rose and clematis, Trail and twine and clasp and kiss.
Tennyson.
Kissing comfit, a perfumed sugarplum to sweeten the breath. [Obs or
Prov. End.] Shak.

KISS
Kiss, n. Etym: [OE. kiss, derived under the influence of the verb
from the older form coss, AS. coss. See Kiss, v.]

1. A salutation with the lips, as a token of affection, respect,
etc.; as, a parting kiss; a kiss of reconciliation.
Last with a kiss, she took a long farewell. Dryden.
Dear as remembered kisses after death. Tennyson.

2. A small piece of confectionery.

KISSER
Kiss"er, n.

Defn: One who kisses. Beau. & Fl.

KISSING BUG
Kiss"ing bug`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of blood-sucking, venomous Hemiptera
that sometimes bite the lip or other parts of the human body, causing
painful sores, as the cone-nose (Conorhinus sanguisuga). [U. S.]

KISSINGCRUST
Kiss"ing*crust`, n. (Cookery)

Defn: The portion of the upper crust of a loaf which has touched
another loaf in baking. Lamb.
A massy fragment from the rich kissingcrust that hangs like a fretted
cornice from the upper half of the loaf. W. Howitt.

KISSING STRINGS
Kiss"ing strings`.

Defn: Cap or bonnet strings made long to tie under the chin.

One of her ladyship's kissing strings, once pink and fluttering and
now faded and soiled.
Pall Mall Mag.

KIST
Kist, n. Etym: [See Chest.]

Defn: A chest; hence, a coffin. [Scot. & Prov. End.] Jamieson.
Halliwell.

KIST
Kist, n. Etym: [Ar. gist.]

Defn: A stated payment, especially a payment of rent for land; hence,
the time for such payment. [India]

KISTVAEN
Kist"vaen, n. Etym: [W. cist-faen.] (Archæol.)

Defn: A Celtic monument, commonly known as a dolmen.

KIT
Kit, v. t. [imp. Kitte.]

Defn: To cut. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KIT
Kit, n. Etym: [See Kitten.]

Defn: A kitten. Kit fox (Zoöl.), a small burrowing fox (Vulpes
velox), inhabiting the region of the Rocky Mountains. It is brownish
gray, reddish on the breast and flanks, and white below. Called also
swift fox.

KIT
Kit, n. Etym: [Gf. AS. cytere harp, L. cithara. Cf. Guitar.]

Defn: A small violin. "A dancing master's kit." Grew.
Prince Turveydrop then tinkled the strings of his kit with his
fingers, and the young ladies stood up to dance. Dickens.

KIT
Kit, m. Etym: [Cf. D. kit a large bottle, OD. kitte beaker,
decanter.]

1. A large bottle.

2. A wooden tub or pail, smaller at the top than at the bottom; as, a
kit of butter, or of mackerel. Wright.

3. straw or rush basket for fish; also, any kind of basket. [Prov.
Eng.] Halliwell.

4. A box for working implements; hence, a working outfit, as of a
workman, a soldier, and the like.

5. A group of separate parts, things, or individuals; -- used with
whole, and generally contemptuously; as, the whole kit of them.

KITCAT
Kit"cat`, a.

1. Designating a club in London, to which Addison and Steele
belonged; -- so called from Christopher Cat, a pastry cook, who
served the club with mutton pies.

2. Designating a canvas used for portraits of a peculiar size, viz.,
twenty-right or twenty-nine inches by thirtysix; -- so called because
that size was adopted by Sir Godfrey Kneller for the portraits he
painted of the members of the Kitcal Club. Fairholt.

KITCAT
Kit"cat`, n.

Defn: A game played by striking with a stick small piece of wood,
called a cat, shaped like two coned united at their bases; tipcat.
Cotton. Kitcat roll (Agric.), a roller somewhat in the form of two
cones set base to base. [Prov. Eng.]

KITCHEN
Kitch"en, n. Etym: [OE. kichen, kichene, kuchene, AS. cycene, L.
coquina, equiv. to culina a kitchen, fr. coquinus pertaining to
cooking, fr. coquere to cook. See Cook to prepare food, and cf.
Cuisine.]

1. A cookroom; the room of a house appropriated to cookery.
Cool was his kitchen, though his brains were hot. Dryden.
A fat kitchen makes a lean will. Franklin.

2. A utensil for roasting meat; as, a tin kitchen. Kitchen garden.
See under Garden.
 -- Kitchen lee, dirty soapsuds. [Obs.] " A brazen tub of kitchen
lee." Ford.
 -- Kitchen stuff, fat collected from pots and pans. Donne.

KITCHEN
Kitch"en, v. t.

Defn: To furnish food to; to entertain with the fare of the kitchen.
[Obs.] Shak.

KITCHENER
Kitch"en*er, n.

Defn: A kitchen servant; a cook. Carlyle.

KITCHENETTE
Kitch`en*ette", n.  [Kitchen + -ette.]

Defn: A room combining a very small kitchen and a pantry, with the
kitchen conveniences compactly arranged, sometimes so that they fold
up out of sight and allow the kitchen to be made a part of the
adjoining room by opening folding doors.

KITCHENMAID
Kitch"en*maid`, n.

Defn: A woman employed in the kitchen. Shak.

KITCHEN MIDDENS
Kitch"en mid`dens. Etym: [Dan. kjök-kenmöddings kitchen leavings; cf.
Scot. midden a dunghill.]

Defn: Relics of neolithic man found on the coast of Denmark,
consisting of shell mounds, some of which are ten feet high, one
thousand feet long, and two hundred feet wide. The name is applied
also to similar mounds found on the American coast from Canada to
Florida, made by the North American Indians.

KITCHEN-RY
Kitch"en-ry, n.

Defn: The body of servants employed in the kitchen. [Obs.] Holland.

KITE
Kite, n. Etym: [OE. kyte, AS.c; cf. W. cud, cut.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any raptorial bird of the subfamily Milvinæ, of which many
species are known. They have long wings, adapted for soaring, and
usually a forked tail.

Note: The European species are Milvus ictinus and M. govinda; the
sacred or Brahmany kite of India is Haliastur Indus; the American
fork-tailed kite is the Nauclerus furcatus.

2. Fig. : One who is rapacious.
Detested kite, thou liest. Shak.

3. A light frame of wood or other material covered with paper or
cloth, for flying in the air at the end of a string.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A lofty sail, carried only when the wind is light.

5. (Geom.)

Defn: A quadrilateral, one of whose diagonals is an axis of symmetry.
Henrici.

6. Fictitious commercial paper used for raising money or to sustain
credit, as a check which represents no deposit in bank, or a bill of
exchange not sanctioned by sale of goods; an accommodation check or
bill. [Cant]

7. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The brill. [Prov. Eng. ] Flying kites. (Naut.) See under
Flying.
 -- Kite falcon (Zoöl.), an African falcon of the genus Avicida,
having some resemblance to a kite.

KITE
Kite, v. i.

Defn: To raise money by "kites;" as, kiting transactions. See Kite,
6. [Cant]

KITE
Kite, n.

Defn: The belly. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

KITEFLYING; KITEFLIER
Kite"fly`ing, n.

Defn: A mode of raising money, or sustaining one's credit, by the use
of paper which is merely nominal; -- called also kiting.
 -- Kite"fli`er, n.

Defn: See Kite, n., 6. [Cant] McElrath. Thackeray.

KITH
Kith, n. Etym: [OE. kith, cu, AS. cc known. Uncouth, Can, and cf.
Kythe.]

Defn: Acquaintance; kindred.
And my near kith for sore me shend. W. Browne.
The sage of his kith and the hamlet. Longfellow.
Kith and kin, kindred more or less remote.

KITHARA
Kith"a*ra, n.

Defn: See Cithara.

KITHE
Kithe, v. t. [Obs.]

Defn: See Kythe. Chaucer.

KITISH
Kit"ish, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or relating to a kite.

KITLING
Kit"ling, n. Etym: [Kit a kitten + ling: cf. Icel. ketlingr.]

Defn: A young kitten; a whelp. [Obs. or Scot.] B. Jonson.

KITTE
Kit"te, imp.

Defn: of Kit to cut. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KITTEL
Kit"tel, v. t.

Defn: See Kittle, v. t.

KITTEN
Kit"ten, n. Etym: [OE. kiton, a dim. of cat; cf. G.kitze a young cat,
also a female cat, and F. chaton, dim. of chat cat, also E. kitling.
See Cat.]

Defn: A young cat.

KITTEN
Kit"ten, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Kittened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Kittening.]

Defn: To bring forth young, as a cat; to bring forth, as kittens.
Shak. H. Spencer.

KITTENISH
Kit"ten*ish, a.

Defn: Resembling a kitten; playful; as, a kittenish disposition.
Richardson.

KITTIWAKE
Kit"ti*wake, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A northern gull (Rissa tridactyla), inhabiting the coasts of
Europe and America. It is white, with black tips to the wings, and
has but three toes.

KITTLE
Kit"tle, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Kit a kitten.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: To bring forth young, as a cat; to kitten; to litter. [Prov.
Eng. & Scot.]

KITTLE
Kit"tle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. AS. citelian; akin to D. kittelen, G.
kitzeln, Icel. kitla, Sw. kittla, kittsla, Dan. kildre. Cf. Tickle.]

Defn: To tickle. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] [Written also kittel.]
Halliwell. Jamieson.

KITTLE
Kit"tle, a.

Defn: Ticklish; not easily managed; troublesome; difficult; variable.
[Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. Sir W. Scott.

KITTLISH
Kit"tlish, a.

Defn: Ticklish; kittle. Sir W. Scott.

KITTY
Kit"ty, n.

1. A kitten; also, a pet name or calling name for the cat.

2.  [Etym. uncertain.] (Gaming) The percentage taken out of a pool to
pay for refreshments, or for the expenses of the table.  R. F.
Foster.

KITTYSOL
Kit*ty*sol", n. Etym: [Sp. quitasol.]

Defn: The Chinese paper parasol.

KIVA
Ki"va, n. [Hopi name, sacred chamber.]

Defn: A large chamber built under, or in, the houses of a Pueblo
village, used as an assembly room in religious rites or as a men's
dormitory. It is commonly lighted and entered from an opening in the
roof.

KIVE
Kive, n.

Defn: A mash vat. See Keeve. [Obs.]

KIVER
Kiv"er, v. t.

Defn: To cover.
 -- n.

Defn: A cover. [Disused except in illiterate speech.]

KIVIKIVI; KIWIKIWI
Ki`vi*ki"vi, Ki`wi*ki"wi, n.; pl. Kivikivies (Kiwikiwies (. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Apteryx, esp. A. australis; -- so called in
imitation of its notes. Called also kiwi. See Apteryx.

KJOEKKEN MOEDDINGS
Kjoek"ken moed`dings. Etym: [Dan.]

Defn: See Kitchen middens.

KLAMATHS
Kla"maths, n. pl.; sing. Klamath (Ethnol.)

Defn: A collective name for the Indians of several tribes formerly
living along the Klamath river, in California and Oregon, but now
restricted to a reservation at Klamath Lake; -- called also Clamets
and Hamati.

KLEENEBOC
Kleene"boc` (klen"bôk`), n. Etym: [D. kleen little, small + bok
buck.]

Defn: (Zoöl.) An antelope (Cerphalopus pygmæus), found in South
Africa. It is of very small size, being but one foot high at
shoulder. It is remarkable for its activity, and for its mild and
timid disposition. Called also guevi, and pygmy antelope.

KLEPTOMANIA
Klep`to*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Gr. mania.]

Defn: A propensity to steal, claimed to be irresistible. This does
not constitute legal irresponsibility. Wharton.

KLEPTOMANIAC
Klep`to*ma"ni*ac, n.

Defn: A person affected with kleptomania.

KLICK
Klick, n. & v.

Defn: See Click.

KLICKET
Klick"et, n. Etym: [Cf. Clicket.] (Mil.)

Defn: A small postern or gate in a palisade, for the passage of
sallying parties. [Written also klinket.]

KLINKSTONE
Klink"stone`, n.

Defn: See Clinkstone.

KLINOMETER
Kli*nom"e*ter, n.

Defn: See Clinometer.

KLIPDAS; KLIPDACHS
Klip"das, Klip"dachs`, n. Etym: [D. klip cliff + das badger, akin to
G. dachs.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small mammal (Hyrax Capensis), found in South Africa. It is
of about the size of a rabbit, and closely resembles the daman.
Called also rock rabbit.

KLIPFISH
Klip"fish`, n.

Defn: Dried cod, exported from Norway. [Written also clipfish.]

KLIPSPRINGER
Klip"spring`er, n. Etym: [D., lit., cliff springer.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, graceful South African antelope (Nanotragus
oreotragus), which, like the chamois, springs from one crag to
another with great agility; -- called also kainsi. [Written also
klippspringer.]

KLOOF
Kloof, n. Etym: [D. See Clove a cleft.]

Defn: A glen; a ravine closed at its upper end. [South Africa]

KLOPEMANIA
Klo`pe*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Gr. mania.]

Defn: See Kleptomania.

KNAB
Knab, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knabbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Knabbing.] Etym:
[See Nab, v. t., and cf. Knap, v. t.]

1. To seize with the teeth; to gnaw. "Knabbing crusts." [Obs.]
L'Estrange.

2. To nab. See Nab, v. t. [Colloq.]

KNABBLE
Knab"ble, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of knab.]

Defn: To bite or nibble. [Obs.]
Horses will knabble at walls, and rats gnaw iron. Sir T. Browne.

KNACK
Knack, v. i. Etym: [Prob. of imitative origin; cf. G. knacken to
break, Dan. knage to crack, and E. knock.]

1. To crack; to make a sharp, abrupt noise to chink. [Obs. or Prov.
Eng.] Bp. Hall.

2. To speak affectedly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

KNACK
Knack, n.

1. A petty contrivance; a toy; a plaything; a knickknack.
A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap. Shak.

2. A readiness in performance; aptness at doing something; skill;
facility; dexterity.
The fellow . . . has not the knack with his shears. B. Jonson.
The dean was famous in his time, And had a kind of knack at rhyme.
Swift.

3. Something performed, or to be done, requiring aptness and
dexterity; a trick; a device. "The knacks of japers." Chaucer.
For how should equal colors do the knack ! Pope.

KNACKER
Knack"er, n.

1. One who makes knickknacks, toys, etc. Mortimer.

2. One of two or more pieces of bone or wood held loosely between the
fingers, and struck together by moving the hand; -- called also
clapper. Halliwell.

KNACKER
Knack"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel.hnakkr a saddle.]

1. a harness maker. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

2. One who slaughters worn-out horses and sells their flesh for dog's
meat. [Eng.]

KNACKISH
Knack"ish, a.

Defn: Trickish; artful. [Obs.] -- Knack"ish*ness, n. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

KNACK-KNEED
Knack"-kneed`, a.

Defn: See Knock-kneed.

KNACKY
Knack"y, a.

Defn: Having a knack; cunning; crafty; trickish. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
Halliwell.

KNAG
Knag, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. G. knagge a knot in wood, Sw. knagg, Dan.
knag a hook to hand clothes on, a bracket; Gael. & Ir. cnag peg,
knob.]

1. A knot in wood; a protuberance. Wright.

2. A wooden peg for hanging things on. Wright.

3. The prong of an antler Holland.

4. The rugged top of a hill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

KNAGGED
Knag"ged, a.

Defn: Full of knots; knaggy.

KNAGGY
Knag"gy, a.

Defn: Knotty; rough; figuratively, rough in temper. Fuller.
 -- Knag"gi*ness, n.

KNAP
Knap, n. Etym: [AS. cnæp, cnæpp, top, knob, button; cf. Icel. knappr
knob, Sw. knapp, Dan. knap button, W., Gael., & Ir. cnap knob,
button, and E. knop.]

Defn: A protuberance; a swelling; a knob; a button; hence, rising
ground; a summit. See Knob, and Knop.
The highest part and knap of the same island. Holland.

KNAP
Knap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Knapping.] Etym:
[D. knappen to chew, bite, crack, take hold of; prob. of imitative
origin.]

1. To bite; to bite off; to break short. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. ]
He will knap the spears apieces with his teeth. Dr. H. More.
He breaketh the bow, and knappeth the spear in sunder. Ps. xlvi. 9
(Book of Common Prayer.)

2. To strike smartly; to rap; to snap. Bacon.

KNAP
Knap, v. i.

Defn: To make a sound of snapping. Wiseman.

KNAP
Knap, n.

Defn: A sharp blow or slap. Halliwell.

KNAPBOTTLE
Knap"bot`tle, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The bladder campion (Silene inflata).

KNAPPISH
Knap"pish, a. Etym: [See Knap to strike.]

Defn: Snappish; peevish. [Obs.] Grafton.

KNAPPLE
Knap"ple, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of knap, v., cf. D. knabbelen to gnaw.]

Defn: To break off with an abrupt, sharp noise; to bite; to nibble.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

KNAPPY
Knap"py, a.

Defn: Having knaps; full of protuberances or humps; knobby. [Obs.]
Huloet.

KNAPSACK
Knap"sack`, n. Etym: [D. knapzak; knappen to eat + zak a bag. See
Knap, v. t., and Sack.]

Defn: A case of canvas or leather, for carrying on the back a
soldier's necessaries, or the clothing, etc., of a traveler.
And each one fills his knapsack or his scrip With some rare thing
that on the field is found. Drayton.

KNAPWEED
Knap"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The black centaury (Centaurea nigra); -- so called from the
knoblike heads of flowers. Called also bullweed.

KNAR
Knar, n.

Defn: See Gnar. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KNARL
Knar"l, n.

Defn: A knot in wood. See Gnarl.

KNARLED
Knarled, a.

Defn: Knotted. See Gnarled.

KNARRED
Knarred, a.

Defn: Knotty; gnarled.
The knarred and crooked cedar knees. Longfellow.

KNARRY
Knar"ry, a.

Defn: Knotty; gnarled. Chaucer.

KNAVE
Knave, n. Etym: [OE., boy, servant, knave, AS. cnafa boy, youth; cf.
AS. cnapa boy, youth, D. kna, G. knabe boy, knappe esquire, Icel.
knapi, Sw. knape esquire, knäfvel knave.]

1. A boy; especially, a boy servant. [Obs.] Wyclif. Chaucer.
O murderous slumber, Lay'st thou thy leaden mace upon my boy That
plays thee music Gentle knave, good night. Shak.

2. Any male servant; a menial. [Obs.] Chaucer.
He's but Fortune's knave, A minister of her will. Shak.

3. A tricky, deceitful fellow; a dishonest person; a rogue; a
villain. "A pair of crafty knaves." Shak.
In defiance of demonstration, knaves will continue to proselyte
fools. Ames.

Note: "How many serving lads must have been unfaithful and dishonest
before knave -which meant at first no more than boy -- acquired the
meaning which it has now !" Trench.

4. A playing card marked with the figure of a servant or soldier; a
jack. Knave child, a male child. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Villain; cheat; rascal; rogue; scoundrel; miscreant.

KNAVERY
Knav"er*y, n.; pl. Knaveries (.

1. The practices of a knave; petty villainy; fraud; trickery; a
knavish action.
This is flat knavery, to take upon you another man's name. Shak.

2. pl.

Defn: Roguish or mischievous tricks. Shak.

KNAVESHIP
Knave"ship, n.

Defn: A small due, in meal, established by usage, which is paid to
the under miller. [Scot.]

KNAVESS
Knav"ess, n.

Defn: A knavish woman. Carlyle.

KNAVISH
Knav"ish, a.

1. Like or characteristic of a knave; given to knavery; trickish;
fraudulent; dishonest; villainous; as, a knavish fellow, or a knavish
trick. "Knavish politicians." Macaulay.

2. Mischievous; roguish; waggish.
Cupid is knavish lad, Thus to make poor females mad. Shak.

KNAVISHLY
Knav"ish*ly, adv.

1. In a knavish manner; dishonestly; fraudulently. Holland.

2. Mischievously; waggishly; roguishly. "Knavishly witty." Gayton.

KNAVISHNESS
KNav"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being knavish; knavery; dishonesty.

KNAW
Knaw, v. t.

Defn: See Gnaw. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

KNAWEL
Knaw"el, n. Etym: [Akin to G. knauelk, knäuel,prop., a ball of
thread, coil. Cf. Clew.] (Bot.)

Defn: A low, spreading weed (Scleranthus annuus), common in sandy
soil.

KNEAD
Knead, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kneaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Kneading.] Etym:
[OE. kneden, As. cnedan; akin to D. kneden, G. kneten, Sw. kn, Icel.
kno; cf. OSlav.gnesti.]

1. To work and press into a mass, usually with the hands; esp., to
work, as by repeated pressure with the knuckles, into a well mixed
mass, as the materials of bread, cake, etc.; as, to knead dough.
The kneading, the making of the cake, the heating of the oven, and
the baking. Shak.

2. Fig.: To treat or form as by kneading; to beat.
I will knead him : I'll make him supple. Shak.
Kneading trough, a trough or tray in which dough is kneaded. Ex.
viii. 3.

KNEADABLE
Knead"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be kneaded; capable of being worked into a mass.

KNEADER
Knead"er, n.

Defn: One who kneads.

KNEADINGLY
Knead"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of one kneading.

KNEBELITE
Kne"bel*ite, n. Etym: [From Major von Knebel.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a gray, red, brown, or green color, and glistening
luster. It is a silicate of iron and manganese.

KNECK
Kneck, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Naut.)

Defn: The twisting of a rope or cable, as it is running out. [Eng.]

KNEE
Knee, n. Etym: [OE. kne, cneo, As. cneó, cneów; akin to OS. knio,
kneo, OFries. kni, G. & D. knie, OHG. chniu, chneo, Icel. kn, Sw.
knä,Dan. knæ, Goth. kniu, L.genu, Gr. janu, Cf. Genuflection.]

1. In man, the joint in the middle part of the leg.

2. (Anat.)
(a) The joint, or region of the joint, between the thigh and leg.
(b) In the horse and allied animals, the carpal joint, corresponding
to the wrist in man.

3. (Mech. & Shipbuilding)

Defn: A piece of timber or metal formed with an angle somewhat in the
shape of the human knee when bent.

4. A bending of the knee, as in respect or courtesy.
Give them title, knee, and approbation. Shak.
Knee breeches. See under Breeches.
 -- Knee holly, Knee holm (Bot.), butcher's broom.
 -- Knee jerk (Physiol.) a jerk or kick produced by a blow or sudden
strain upon the patellar tendon of the knee, which causes a sudden
contraction of the quadriceps muscle; one of the so-called tendon
reflexes.
 -- Knee joint. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Knee timber, timber with knees or angles in it.
 -- Knee tribute, or Knee worship, tribute paid by kneeling; worship
by genuflection. [Obs.] "Knee tribute yet unpaid." Milton.

KNEE
Knee, v. t.

Defn: To supplicate by kneeling. [Obs.]
Fall down, and knee The way into his mercy. Shak

KNEEBRUSH
Knee"brush`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tuft or brush of hair on the knees of some species of
antelopes and other animals; -- chiefly used in the plural.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A thick mass or collection of hairs on the legs of bees, by aid
of which they carry the collected pollen to the hive or nest; --
usually in the plural.

KNEECAP
Knee"cap`, n.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The kneepan.

2. A cap or protection for the knee.

KNEE-CROOKING
Knee"-crook`ing, a.

Defn: Obsequious; fawning; cringing. "Knee-crooking knave." Shak.

KNEED
Kneed, a.

1. Having knees;- used chiefly in composition; as, in-kneed; out-
kneed; weak-kneed.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Geniculated; forming an obtuse angle at the joints, like the
knee when a little bent; as, kneed grass.

KNEE-DEEP
Knee"-deep`, a.

1. Rising to the knees; knee-high; as, water or snow knee-deep.
Grass knee-deep within a month. Milton.

2. Sunk to the knees; as, men knee-deep in water.
Where knee-deep the trees were standing. Longfellow.

KNEE-HIGH
Knee"-high`, a.

Defn: Rising or reaching upward to the knees; as, the water is knee-
high.

KNEE JERK
Knee jerk. (Physiol.)

Defn: A jerk or kick produced by a blow or sudden strain upon the
patellar tendon of the knee, which causes a sudden contraction of the
quadriceps muscle.

KNEEJOINT
Knee"joint`, n.

1. The joint of the knee.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A toggle joint; -- so called because consisting of two pieces
jointed to each other end to end, making an angle like the knee when
bent.

KNEEJOINTED
Knee"joint`ed, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Geniculate; kneed. See Kneed, a., 2.

KNEEL
Kneel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Knelt or Kneeled (p. pr. & vb. n.
Kneeling.] Etym: [OE. knelen, cneolien; akin to D. knielen, Dan.
knæle. See Knee.]

Defn: To bend the knee; to fall or rest on the knees; -- sometimes
with down.
And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this
sin to their charge. Acts vii. 60.
As soon as you are dressed, kneel and say the Lord's Prayer. Jer.
Taylor.

KNEELER
Kneel"er, n.

1. One who kneels or who worships by or while kneeling. Tennyson.

2. A cushion or stool to kneel on.

3. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A name given to certain catechumens and penitents who were
permitted to join only in parts of church worship.

KNEELINGLY
Kneel"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a kneeling position.

KNEEPAN
Knee"pan`, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A roundish, flattened, sesamoid bone in the tendon in front of
the knee joint; the patella; the kneecap.

KNEEPIECE
Knee"piece`, n.

Defn: A piece shaped like a knee; as, the kneepieces or ears of a
boat.

KNEIPPISM; KNEIPP'S CURE; KNEIPP CURE
Kneipp"ism, n. Also Kneipp's, or Kneipp, cure.

Defn: Treatment of disease by forms of hydrotherapy, as walking
barefoot in the morning dew, baths, wet compresses, cold affusions,
etc.; -- so called from its originator, Sebastian Kneipp (1821-97), a
German priest.

KNELL
Knell, n. Etym: [OE. knel, cnul, AS. cnyll, fr. cnyllan to sound a
bell; cf. D. & G. knallen to clap, crack, G. & Sw. knall a clap,
crack, loud sound, Dan. knalde to clap, crack. Cf. Knoll, n. & v.]

Defn: The stoke of a bell tolled at a funeral or at the death of a
person; a death signal; a passing bell; hence, figuratively, a
warning of, or a sound indicating, the passing away of anything.
The dead man's knell Is there scarce asked for who. Shak.
The curfew tolls the knell of parting day. Gray.

KNELL
Knell, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Knelled; p. pr. & vb. n. Knelling.] Etym:
[OE. knellen, knillen, As. cnyllan. See Knell, n.]

Defn: To sound as a knell; especially, to toll at a death or funeral;
hence, to sound as a warning or evil omen.
Not worth a blessing nor a bell to knell for thee. Beau. & Fl.
Yet all that poets sing, and grief hath known, Of hopes laid waste,
knells in that word, "alone". Ld. Lytton.

KNELL
Knell, v. t.

Defn: To summon, as by a knell.
Each matin bell, the baron saith, Knells us back to a world of death.
Coleridge.

KNELT
Knelt, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Kneel.

KNEW
Knew, imp.

Defn: of Know.

KNICKER
Knick"er, n. Etym: [D. knikker.]

Defn: A small ball of clay, baked hard and oiled, used as a marble by
boys in playing. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.] Halliwell. Bartlett.

KNICKERBOCKER
Knick"er*bock`er, n.

Defn: A linsey-woolsey fabric having a rough knotted surface on the
right side; used for women's dresses.

KNICKERBOCKERS
Knick"er*bock`ers, n. pl.

Defn: The name for a style of short breeches; smallclothes.

KNICKKNACK
Knick"knack`, n. Etym: [See Knack.]

Defn: A trifle or toy; a bawble; a gewgaw.

KNICKKNACKATORY
Knick"knack`a*to*ry, n.

Defn: A collection of knickknacks. Richardson.

KNICKKNACKERY
Knick"knack`er*y, n.

Defn: Knickknacks.

KNIFE
Knife, n.; pl. Knives. Etym: [OE. knif, AS. cnif; akin to D. knijf,
Icel. knifr, Sw. knif, Dan. kniv.]

1. An instrument consisting of a thin blade, usually of steel and
having a sharp edge for cutting, fastened to a handle, but of many
different forms and names for different uses; as, table knife,
drawing knife, putty knife, pallet knife, pocketknife, penknife,
chopping knife, etc.

2. A sword or dagger.
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife. Shak.
Knife grass (Bot.) a tropical American sedge (Scleria latifolia),
having leaves with a very sharp and hard edge, like a knife.
 -- War to the knife, mortal combat; a conflict carried to the last
extremity.

KNIFE
Knife, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knifed; p. pr. & vb. n. Knifing.]

1. (Hort.)

Defn: To prune with the knife.

2. To cut or stab with a knife. [Low]

KNIFEBOARD
Knife"board`, n.

Defn: A board on which knives are cleaned or polished.

KNIFEEDGE; KNIFE-EDGE
Knife"*edge`, n. (Mech.)

Defn: A piece of steel sharpened to an acute edge or angle, and
resting on a smooth surface, serving as the axis of motion of a
pendulum, scale beam, or other piece required to oscillate with the
least possible friction. Knife-edge file. See Illust. of File.

KNIFE SWITCH
Knife switch. (Elec.)

Defn: A switch consisting of one or more knifelike pieces hinged at
one end and making contact near the other with flat gripping springs.

KNIGHT
Knight, n. Etym: [OE. knight, cniht, knight, soldier, As. cniht,
cneoht, a boy, youth, attendant, military follower; akin to D. & G.
knecht servant; perh. akin to E. kin.]

1. A young servant or follower; a military attendant. [Obs.]

2.
(a) In feudal times, a man-at-arms serving on horseback and admitted
to a certain military rank with special ceremonies, including an oath
to protect the distressed, maintain the right, and live a stainless
life.
(b) One on whom knighthood, a dignity next below that of baronet, is
conferred by the sovereign, entitling him to be addressed as Sir; as,
Sir John. [Eng.] Hence:
(c) A champion; a partisan; a lover. "Give this ring to my true
knight." Shak "In all your quarrels will I be your knight." Tennyson.
Knights, by their oaths, should right poor ladies' harms. Shak.

Note: Formerly, when a knight's name was not known, it was customary
to address him as Sir Knight. The rank of a knight is not hereditary.

3. A piece used in the game of chess, usually bearing a horse's head.

4. A playing card bearing the figure of a knight; the knave or jack.
[Obs.] Carpet knight. See under Carpet.
 -- Knight of industry. See Chevalier d'industrie, under Chevalier.
 -- Knight of Malta, Knight of Rhodes, Knight of St. John of
Jerusalem. See Hospitaler.
 -- Knight of the post, one who gained his living by giving false
evidence on trials, or false bail; hence, a sharper in general.
Nares. "A knight of the post, . . . quoth he, for so I am termed; a
fellow that will swear you anything for twelve pence." -- Nash.
 -- Knight of the shire, in England, one of the representatives of a
county in Parliament, in distinction from the representatives of
cities and boroughs.
 -- Knights commanders, Knights grand cross, different classes of the
Order of the Bath. See under Bath, and Companion. Knights of labor, a
secret organization whose professed purpose is to secure and maintain
the rights of workingmen as respects their relations to their
employers. [U. S.] -- Knights of Pythias, a secret order, founded in
Washington, d.C., in 1864, for social and charitable purposes.
 -- Knights of the Round Table, knights belonging to an order which,
according to the legendary accounts, was instituted by the mythical
King Arthur. They derived their common title from the table around
which they sat on certain solemn days. Brande & C.

KNIGHT
Knight, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knighted; p. pr. & vb. n. Knighting.]

Defn: To dub or create (one) a knight; -- done in England by the
sovereign only, who taps the kneeling candidate with a sword, saying:
Rise, Sir ---.
A soldier, by the honor-giving hand Of Cknighted in the field. Shak.

KNIGHTAGE
Knight"age, n.

Defn: To body of knights, taken collectively.

KNIGHT BACHELOR
Knight" bach"e*lor; pl. Knights bachelors (.

Defn: A knight of the most ancient, but lowest, order of English
knights, and not a member of any order of chivalry. See Bachelor, 4.

KNIGHT BANNERET
Knight" ban"ner*et; pl. Knights bannerets.

Defn: A knight who carried a banner, who possessed fiefs to a greater
amount than the knight bachelor, and who was obliged to serve in war
with a greater number of attendants. The dignity was sometimes
conferred by the sovereign in person on the field of battle.

KNIGHT BARONET
Knight" bar"o-net.

Defn: See Baronet.

KNIGHT-ERRANT
Knight"-er`rant, n.; pl. Knight-errants, or Knights-errant.

Defn: A wandering knight; a knight who traveled in search of
adventures, for the purpose of exhibiting military skill, prowess,
and generosity.

KNIGHT-ERRANTRY
Knight"-er`rant*ry, n.; pl. Knight-errantries (.

Defn: The character or actions of wandering knights; the practice of
wandering in quest of adventures; chivalry; a quixotic or romantic
adventure or scheme.
The rigid guardian [i. e., conscience] of a blameless heart Is weak
with rank knight-erratries o'errun. Young.

KNIGHT-ER-RATIC
Knight"-er-rat"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a knight-errant or to knight-errantry. [R.]
Quart. Rev.

KNIGHTHEAD
Knight"head`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A bollard timber. See under Bollard.

KNIGHTHOOD
Knight"hood, n. Etym: [Knight + hood: cf. AS. chihthad youth.]

1. The character, dignity, or condition of a knight, or of knights as
a class; hence, chivalry. "O shame to knighthood." Shak.
If you needs must write, write Cæsar's praise; You 'll gain at least
a knighthood, or the bays. Pope.

2. The whole body of knights.
The knighthood nowadays are nothing like the knighthood of old time.
Chapman.

Note: "When the order of knighthood was conferred with full solemnity
in the leisure of a court or court or city, imposing preliminary
ceremonies were required of the candidate. He prepared himself by
prayer and fasting, watched his arms at night in a chapel, and was
then admitted with the performance of religious rites. Knighthood was
conferred by the accolade, which, from the derivation of the name,
would appear to have been originally an embrace; but afterward
consisted, as it still does, in a blow of the flat of a sword on the
back of the kneeling candidate." Brande & C.

KNIGHTLESS
Knight"less, a.

Defn: Unbecoming a knight. [Obs.] "Knightless guile." Spenser.

KNIGHTLINESS
Knight"li*ness, n.

Defn: The character or bearing suitable for a knight; chivalry.
Spenser.

KNIGHTLY
Knight`ly, a. Etym: [AS. cnihtlic boyish.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a knight; becoming a knight; chivalrous;
as, a knightly combat; a knightly spirit.
For knightly jousts and fierce encounters fit. Spenser.
[Excuses] full knightly without scorn. Tennyson.

KNIGHTLY
Knight"ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner becoming a knight.
And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms. Shak.

KNIGHT MARSHAL
Knight" mar"shal. (Eng. Law)

Defn: An officer in the household of the British sovereign, who has
cognizance of transgressions within the royal household and verge,
and of contracts made there, a member of the household being one of
the parties. Wharton.

KNIGHT SERVICE
Knight" serv"ice. (Eng. Feud. Law)

Defn: A tenure of lands held by knights on condition of performing
military service. See Chivalry, n., 4.

KNIGHT SERVICE; KNIGHT'S SERVICE
Knight service. Also Knight's service.

1.  (Feud. Law) The military service by rendering which a knight held
his lands; also, the tenure of lands held on condition of performing
military service.

By far the greater part of England [in the 13th century] is held of
the king by knight's service. . . . In order to understand this
tenure we must form the conception of a unit of military service.
That unit seems to be the service of one knight or fully armed
horseman (servitium unius militis) to be done to the king in his army
for forty days in the year, if it be called for. . . . The limit of
forty days seems to have existed rather in theory than practice.
Pollock & Mait.

2.  Service such as a knight can or should render; hence, good or
valuable service.

KNIGHT'S FEE
Knight's fee. (Feudal Law)

Defn: The fee of a knight; specif., the amount of land the holding of
which imposed the obligation of knight service, being sometimes a
hide or less, sometimes six or more hides.

KNIGHT TEMPLAR
Knight" Tem"plar; pl. Knights Templars (.

Defn: See Commandery, n., 3, and also Templar, n., 1 and 3.

KNIT
Knit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knit or Knitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Knitting.]
Etym: [OE. knitten, knutten, As. cnyttan, fr. cnotta knot; akin to
Icel. kn, Sw. knyta, Dan. knytte. See Knot.]

1. To form into a knot, or into knots; to tie together, as cord; to
fasten by tying.
A great sheet knit at the four corners. Acts x. 11.
When your head did but ache, I knit my handkercher about your brows.
Shak.

2. To form, as a textile fabric, by the interlacing of yarn or thread
in a series of connected loops, by means of needles, either by hand
or by machinery; as, to knit stockings.

3. To join; to cause to grow together.
Nature can not knit the bones while the parts are under a discharge.
Wiseman.

4. To unite closely; to connect; to engage; as, hearts knit together
in love.
Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit. Shak.
Come , knit hands, and beat the ground, In a light fantastic round.
Milton.
A link among the days, toknit The generations each to each. Tennyson.

5. To draw together; to contract into wrinkles.
knits his brow and shows an angry eye. Shak.

KNIT
Knit, v. i.

1. To form a fabric by interlacing yarn or thread; to weave by making
knots or loops.

2. To be united closely; to grow together; as, broken bones will in
time knit and become sound. To knit up, to wind up; to conclude; to
come to a close. "It remaineth to knit up briefly with the nature and
compass of the seas." [Obs.] Holland.

KNIT
Knit, n.

Defn: Union knitting; texture. Shak.

KNITBACK
Knit"back`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The plant comfrey; -- so called from its use as a restorative.
Dr. Prier.

KNITCH; KNITCHET
Knitch, Knitch"et, n. Etym: [Cf. Knit.]

Defn: A number of things tied or knit together; a bundle; a fagot.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
When they [stems of asphodel] be dried, they ought to be made up into
knitchets, or handfuls. Holland.

KNITS
Knits, n. pl. Etym: [Prob. same word as nit a louse's egg.] (Mining)

Defn: Small particles of ore. Raymond.

KNITSTER
Knit"ster, n.

Defn: A woman who knits. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

KNITTER
Knit"ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, knits, joins, or unites; a knitting
machine. Shak.

KNITTING
Knit"ting, n.

1. The work of a knitter; the network formed by knitting.

2. Union formed by knitting, as of bones. Knitting machine, one of a
number of contrivances for mechanically knitting stockings, jerseys,
and the like.
 -- Knitting , a stiff rod, as of steel wire, with rounded ends for
knitting yarn or threads into a fabric, as in stockings.
 -- Knitting sheath, a sheath to receive the end of a needle in
knitting.

KNITTLE
Knit"tle, n. Etym: [From Knit.]

1. A string that draws together a purse or bag. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

2. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: See Nettles.

KNIVES
Knives, n. pl.

Defn: of Knife. See Knife.

KNOB
Knob, n. Etym: [A modification of knop. Cf. Nob.]

1. A hard protuberance; a hard swelling or rising; a bunch; a lump;
as, a knob in the flesh, or on a bone.

2. A knoblike ornament or handle; as, the knob of a lock, door, or
drawer. Chaucer.

3. A rounded hill or mountain; as, the Pilot Knob. [U. S.] Bartlett.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: See Knop. Knob latch, a latch which can be operated by turning
a knob, without using a key.

KNOB
Knob, v. i.

Defn: To grow into knobs or bunches; to become knobbed. [Obs.] Drant.

KNOBBED
Knobbed, a.

Defn: Containing knobs; full of knobs; ending in a nob. See Illust of
Antenna.
The horns of a roe deer of Greenland are pointed at the top, and
knobbed or tuberous at the bottom. Grew.

KNOBBER
Knob"ber, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Knobbler.

KNOBBING
Knob"bing, n. (Stone Quarrying)

Defn: Rough dressing by knocking off knobs or projections.

KNOBBLER
Knob"bler, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hart in its second year; a young deer. [Written also
knobber.] Halliwell.
He has hallooed the hounds upon a velvet-headed knobbler. Sir W.
Scott.

KNOBBLING FIRE
Knob"bling fire

Defn: . A bloomery fire. See Bloomery.

KNOBBY
Knob"by, a. Etym: [From Knob.]

1. Full of, or covered with, knobs or hard protuberances. Dr. H.
More.

2. Irregular; stubborn in particulars. [Obs.]
The informers continued in a knobby kind of obstinacy. Howell.

3. Abounding in rounded hills or mountains; hilly. [U.S.] Bartlett.

KNOBKERRIE
Knob"ker`rie, n. [Boer D. knopkirie, fr. D. knop-hout, knotty stick +
Hottentot kïrri  club.]

Defn: A short club with a knobbed end used as a missile weapon by
Kafir and other native tribes of South Africa.

KNOBSTICK
Knob"stick`, n.

Defn: One who refuses to join, or withdraws from, a trades union.
[Cant, Eng.]

KNOCK
Knock, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Knocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Knocking.] Etym:
[OE. knoken, AS. cnocian, cnucian; prob. of imitative origin; cf. Sw.
knacka.Cf. Knack.]

1. To drive or be driven against something; to strike against
something; to clash; as, one heavy body knocks against another.
Bacon.

2. To strike or beat with something hard or heavy; to rap; as, to
knock with a club; to knock on the door.
For harbor at a thousand doors they knocked. Dryden.
Seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
Matt. vii. 7.
To knock about, to go about, taking knocks or rough usage; to wander
about; to saunter. [Colloq.] "Knocking about town." W. Irving.
 -- To knock up, to fail of strength; to become wearied or worn out,
as with labor; to give out. "The horses were beginning to knock up
under the fatigue of such severe service." De Quincey.
 -- To knock off, to cease, as from work; to desist.
 -- To knock under, to yield; to submit; to acknowledge one's self
conquered; -- an expression probably borrowed from the practice of
knocking under the table with the knuckles, when conquered. "Colonel
Esmond knocked under to his fate." Thackeray.

KNOCK
Knock, v. t.

1. To strike with something hard or heavy; to move by striking; to
drive (a thing) against something; as, to knock a ball with a bat; to
knock the head against a post; to knock a lamp off the table.
When heroes knock their knotty heads together. Rowe.

2. To strike for admittance; to rap upon, as a door.
Master, knock the door hard. Shak.
To knock down. (a) To strike down; to fell; to prostrate by a blow or
by blows; as, to knock down an assailant. (b) To assign to a bidder
at an auction, by a blow or knock; to knock off.
 -- To knock in the head, or on the head, to stun or kill by a blow
upon the head; hence, to put am end to; to defeat, as a scheme or
project; to frustrate; to quash. [Colloq.] -- To knock off. (a) To
force off by a blow or by beating. (b) To assign to a bidder at an
auction, by a blow on the counter. (c) To leave off (work, etc.).
[Colloq.] -- To knock out, to force out by a blow or by blows; as, to
knock out the brains.
 -- To knock up. (a) To arouse by knocking. (b) To beat or tire out;
to fatigue till unable to do more; as, the men were entirely knocked
up. [Colloq.] "The day being exceedingly hot, the want of food had
knocked up my followers." Petherick. (c) (Bookbinding) To make even
at the edges, or to shape into book form, as printed sheets.

KNOCK
Knock, n.

1. A blow; a stroke with something hard or heavy; a jar.

2. A stroke, as on a door for admittance; a rap. " A knock at the
door." Longfellow.
A loud cry or some great knock. Holland.
Knock off, a device in a knitting machine to remove loops from the
needles.

KNOCKABOUT
Knock"a*bout`, a.

1. Marked by knocking about or roughness.

2.  Of noisy and violent character. [Theat. Slang]

3.  Characterized by, or suitable for, knocking about, or traveling
or wandering hither and thither.

4.  That does odd jobs; -- said of a class of hands or laborers on a
sheep station. [Collog., Australia]

KNOCKABOUT
Knock"a*bout`, n.

1. (Naut.) A small yacht, generally from fifteen to twenty-five feet
in length, having a mainsail and a jib.  All knockabouts have ballast
and either a keel or centerboard.  The original type was twenty-one
feet in length.  The next larger type is called a raceabout.

2. A knockabout performer or performance. [Theat. Slang]

3. A man hired on a sheep station to do odd jobs. [Colloq.,
Australia]

KNOCKDOWN
Knock"down`, n.

Defn: A felling by a knock, as of a combatant, or of an animal.

KNOCKDOWN
Knock"down`, a.

Defn: Of force sufficient to fell or completely overthrow; as, a
knockdown blow; a knockdown argument. [Colloq.]

KNOCKER
Knock"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, knocks; specifically, an instrument, or
kind of hammer, fastened to a door, to be used in seeking for
admittance.
Shut, shut the door, good John ! fatigued, knocker; say I'm sick, I'm
dead. Pope.

KNOCKING
Knock"ing, n.

Defn: A beating; a rap; a series of raps.
The . . . repeated knockings of the head upon the ground by the
Chinese worshiper. H. Spencer.

KNOCKINGS
Knock"ings, n. pl. (Mining)

Defn: Large lumps picked out of the sieve, in dressing ore.

KNOCK-KNEE
Knock"-knee`, n. (Med.)

Defn: A condition in which the knees are bent in so as to touch each
other in walking; inknee.

KNOCK-KNEED
Knock"-kneed`, a.

Defn: Having the legs bent inward so that the knees touch in walking.
[Written also knack-kneed.]

KNOCK-OFF
Knock"-off`, a.

Defn: That knocks off; of or pertaining to knocking off.

KNOCK-OFF
Knock"-off`, n.

Defn: Act or place of knocking off; that which knocks off; specif.
(Mach.),

Defn: a cam or the like for disconnecting something, as a device in a
knitting machine to remove loops from the needles.

KNOCK-OUT
Knock"-out`, n.

Defn: Act of knocking out, or state of being knocked out.

KNOCK-OUT
Knock"-out`, a.

Defn: That knocks out; characterized by knocking out; as, a knock-out
blow; a knock-out key for knocking out a drill from a collet.

KNOCK-OUT DROPS
Knock-out drops.

Defn: Drops of some drug put in one's drink to stupefy him for
purpose of robbery, etc. [Slang, U. S.]

KNOCKSTONE
Knock"stone`, n. (Mining)

Defn: A block upon which ore is broken up.

KNOLL
Knoll, n. Etym: [AS. cnoll; akin to G. knolle, knollen, clod, lump,
knob, bunch, OD. knolle ball, bunch, Sw. knöl, Dan. knold.]

Defn: A little round hill; a mound; a small elevation of earth; the
top or crown of a hill.
On knoll or hillock rears his crest, Lonely and huge, the giant oak.
Sir W. Scott.

KNOLL
Knoll, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knolled; p. pr. & vb. n. Knolling.] Etym:
[OE. knollen, AS. cnyllan. See Knell.]

Defn: To ring, as a bell; to strike a knell upon; to toll; to
proclaim, or summon, by ringing. "Knolled to church." Shak.
Heavy clocks knolling the drowsy hours. Tennyson.

KNOLL
Knoll, v. i.

Defn: To sound, as a bell; to knell. Shak.
For a departed being's soul The death hymn peals, and the hollow
bells knoll. Byron.

KNOLL
Knoll, n.

Defn: The tolling of a bell; a knell. [R.] Byron.

KNOLLER
Knoll"er, n.

Defn: One who tolls a bell. [Obs.] Sherwood.

KNOP
Knop, n. Etym: [OE. knop, knoppe; cf. D.knop, knoop, G. knopf, Dan.
knap, knop, Sw. knapp, knopp, button, bud, Icel. knappr, and E. knap,
n. Cf. Knap, Knob.]

1. A knob; a bud; a bunch; a button.
Four bowls made like unto almonds, with their knops and their
flowers. Ex. xxv. 21.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Any boldly projecting sculptured ornament; esp., the ornamental
termination of a pinnacle, and then synonymous with finial; -- called
also knob, and knosp. Knop sedge (Bot.), the bur reed (Sparganium); -
- so called from its globular clusters of seed vessels. Prior.

KNOPPED
Knopped, a.

Defn: Having knops or knobs; fastened as with buttons. [Obs.] Rom. of
R.

KNOPPERN
Knop"pern, n. Etym: [Cf. G. knopper. See Knop.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of gall produced by a gallfly on the cup of an acorn, --
used in tanning and dyeing.

KNOPWEED
Knop"weed`, n.

Defn: Same as Knapweed.

KNOR
Knor, n.

Defn: See Knur. [Obs.]

KNOSP
Knosp, n. Etym: [Cf. G. knospe bud, E. knop, knar.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Knop,2. Milman.

KNOT
Knot, n. Etym: [OE. knot, knotte, AS. cnotta; akin to D. knot, OHG.
chnodo, chnoto, G. knoten, Icel. kn, Sw. knut, Dan. knude, and perh.
to L. nodus. Cf. Knout, Knit.]

1.
(a) A fastening together of the pars or ends of one or more threads,
cords, ropes, etc., by any one of various ways of tying or
entangling.
(b) A lump or loop formed in a thread, cord, rope. etc., as at the
end, by tying or interweaving it upon itself.
(c) An ornamental tie, as of a ribbon.

Note: The names of knots vary according to the manner of their
making, or the use for which they are intended; as, dowknot, reef
knot, stopper knot, diamond knot, etc.

2. A bond of union; a connection; a tie. "With nuptial knot." Shak.
Ere we knit the knot that can never be loosed. Bp. Hall.

3. Something not easily solved; an intricacy; a difficulty; a
perplexity; a problem.
Knots worthy of solution. Cowper.
A man shall be perplexed with knots, and problems of business, and
contrary affairs. South.

4. A figure the lines of which are interlaced or intricately
interwoven, as in embroidery, gardening, etc. "Garden knots." Bacon.
Flowers worthy of paradise, which, not nice art In beds and curious
knots, but nature boon Poured forth profuse on hill, and dale, and
plain. Milton.

5. A cluster of persons or things; a collection; a group; a hand; a
clique; as, a knot of politicians. "Knots of talk." Tennyson.
His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries. Shak.
Palms in cluster, knots of Paradise. Tennyson.
As they sat together in small, separate knots, they discussed
doctrinal and metaphysical points of belief. Sir W. Scott.

6. A portion of a branch of a tree that forms a mass of woody fiber
running at an angle with the grain of the main stock and making a
hard place in the timber. A loose knot is generally the remains of a
dead branch of a tree covered by later woody growth.

7. A knob, lump, swelling, or protuberance.
With lips serenely placid, felt the knot Climb in her throat.
Tennyson.

8. A protuberant joint in a plant.

9. The point on which the action of a story depends; the gist of a
matter. [Obs.]
I shoulde to the knotte condescend, And maken of her walking soon an
end. Chaucer.

10. (Mech.)

Defn: See Node.

11. (Naut.)
(a) A division of the log line, serving to measure the rate of the
vessel's motion. Each knot on the line bears the same proportion to a
mile that thirty seconds do to an hour. The number of knots which run
off from the reel in half a minute, therefore, shows the number of
miles the vessel sails in an hour. Hence:
(b) A nautical mile, or 6080.27 feet; as, when a ship goes eight
miles an hour, her speed is said to be eight knots.

12. A kind of epaulet. See Shoulder knot.

13. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sandpiper (Tringa canutus), found in the northern parts of
all the continents, in summer. It is grayish or ashy above, with the
rump and upper tail coverts white, barred with dusky. The lower parts
are pale brown, with the flanks and under tail coverts white. When
fat it is prized by epicures. Called also dunne.

Note: The name is said to be derived from King Canute, this bird
being a favorite article of food with him.
The knot that called was Canutus' bird of old, Of that great king of
Danes his name that still doth hold, His appetite to please that far
and near was sought. Drayton.

KNOT
Knot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Knotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Knotting.]

1. To tie in or with, or form into, a knot or knots; to form a knot
on, as a rope; to entangle. "Knotted curls." Drayton.
As tight as I could knot the noose. Tennyson.

2. To unite closely; to knit together. Bacon.

3. To entangle or perplex; to puzzle. [Obs. or R.]

KNOT
Knot, v. i.

1. To form knots or joints, as in a cord, a plant, etc.; to become
entangled.
Cut hay when it begins to knot. Mortimer.

2. To knit knots for fringe or trimming.

3. To copulate; -- said of toads. [R.] Shak.

KNOTBERRY
Knot"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The cloudberry (Rudus Chamæmorus); -- so called from its
knotted stems.

KNOTGRASS
Knot"grass`, n. (Bot.)
(a) a common weed with jointed stems (Polygonum aviculare); knotweed.
(b) The dog grass. See under Dog.

Note: An infusion of Polygonum aviculare was once supposed to have
the effect of stopping the growth of an animal, and hence it was
called, as by Shakespeare, "hindering knotgrass."
We want a boy extremely for this function, Kept under for a year with
milk and knotgrass. Beau. & Fl.

KNOTLESS
Knot"less, a.

Defn: Free from knots; without knots. "Silver firs with knotless
trunks." Congreve.

KNOTTED
Knot"ted, a.

1. Full of knots; having knots knurled; as, a knotted cord; the
knotted oak. Dryden.

2. Interwoven; matted; entangled.
Make . . . thy knotted and combined locks to part. Shak.

3. Having intersecting lines or figures.
The west corner of thy curious knotted garden. Shak.

4. (Geol.)

Defn: Characterized by small, detached points, chiefly composed of
mica, less decomposable than the mass of the rock, and forming knots
in relief on the weathered surface; as, knotted rocks. Percival.

5. Entangled; puzzling; knotty. [R.]
They're catched in knotted lawlike nets. Hudibras.

KNOTTINESS
Knot"ti*ness, n. Etym: [From Knotty.]

1. The quality or state of being knotty or full of knots.

2. Difficulty of solution; intricacy; complication. " Knottiness of
his style." Hare.

KNOTTY
Knot"ty, a. [Compar. Knottier; superl. Knottiest.]

1. Full of knots; knotted; having many knots; as, knotty timber; a
knotty rope.

2. Hard; rugged; as, a knotty head.[R.] Rewe.

3. Difficult; intricate; perplexed.
A knotty point to which we now proceed Pope.

KNOTWEED
Knot"weed", n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Knot.

KNOTWORT
Knot"wort, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small, herbaceous, trailing plant, of the genus Illecebrum
(I. verticillatum.)

KNOUT
Knout (nout or nt), n. Etym: [Russ. knut'; prob. of Scand. origin;
cf. Sw. knut knot, knout, Icel. kn knot: cf. F. knout. See Knot.]

Defn: A kind of whip for flogging criminals, formerly much used in
Russia. The last is a tapering bundle of leather thongs twisted with
wire and hardened, so that it mangles the flesh.

KNOUT
Knout, v. t.

Defn: To punish with the knout Brougham.

KNOW
Know, n.

Defn: Knee. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KNOW
Know, v. t. [imp. Knew; p. p. Known; p. pr. & vb. n. Knowing.] Etym:
[OE. knowen, knawen, AS. cnäwan; akin to OHG. chnäan (in comp.),
Icel. knä to be able, Russ, znate to know, L. gnoscere, noscere, Gr.
jn; fr. the root of E. can, v. i., ken. (Ken, Can to be able, and cf.
Acquaint, Cognition, Gnome, Ignore, Noble, Note.]

1. To perceive or apprehend clearly and certainly; to understand; to
have full information of; as, to know one's duty.
O, that a man might know The end of this day's business ere it come!
Shak.
There is a certainty in the proposition, and we know it. Dryden.
Know how sublime a thing it is To suffer and be strong. Longfellow.

2. To be convinced of the truth of; to be fully assured of; as, to
know things from information.

3. To be acquainted with; to be no stranger to; to be more or less
familiar with the person, character, etc., of; to possess experience
of; as, to know an author; to know the rules of an organization.
He hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin. 2 Cor. v. 21.
Not to know me argues yourselves unknown. Milton.

4. To recognize; to distinguish; to discern the character of; as, to
know a person's face or figure.
Ye shall know them by their fruits. Matt. vil. 16.
And their eyes were opened, and they knew him. Luke xxiv. 31.
To know Faithful friend from flattering foe. Shak.
At nearer view he thought he knew the dead. Flatman.

5. To have sexual commerce with.
And Adam knew Eve his wife. Gen. iv. 1.

Note: Know is often followed by an objective and an infinitive (with
or without to) or a participle, a dependent sentence, etc.
And I knew that thou hearest me always. John xi. 42.
The monk he instantly knew to be the prior. Sir W. Scott.
In other hands I have known money do good. Dickens.
To know how, to understand the manner, way, or means; to have
requisite information, intelligence, or sagacity. How is sometimes
omitted. " If we fear to die, or know not to be patient." Jer.
Taylor.

KNOW
Know, v. i.

1. To have knowledge; to have a clear and certain perception; to
possess wisdom, instruction, or information; -- often with of.
Israel doth not know, my people doth not consider. Is. i. 3.
If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether
it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. John vii. 17.
The peasant folklore of Europe still knows of willows that bleed and
weep and speak when hewn. Tylor.

2. To be assured; to feel confident. To know of,to ask, to inquire.
[Obs.] " Know of your youth, examine well your blood." Shak.

KNOWABLE
Know"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be known; capable of being discovered, understood, or
ascertained.
Thus mind and matter, as known or knowable, are only two different
series of phenomena or qualities. Sir W. Hamilton.

KNOWABLENESS
Know"a* ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being knowable. Locke.

KNOW-ALL
Know"-all`, n.

Defn: One who knows everything; hence, one who makes pretension to
great knowledge; a wiseacre; -- usually ironical. [Colloq. or R.]

KNOWER
Know"er, n.

Defn: One who knows. Shak.

KNOWING
Know"ing, a.

1. Skilful; well informed; intelligent; as, a knowing man; a knowing
dog.
The knowing and intelligent part of the world. South.

2. Artful; cunning; as, a knowing rascal. [Colloq.]

KNOWING
Know"ing, n.

Defn: Knowledge; hence, experience. " In my knowing." Shak.
This sore night Hath trifled former knowings. Shak.

KNOWINGLY
Know"ing*ly, adv.

1. With knowledge; in a knowing manner; intelligently; consciously;
deliberately; as, he would not knowingly offend. Strype.

2. By experience. [Obs.] Shak.

KNOWINGNESS
Know"ing*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being knowing or intelligent;
shrewdness; skillfulness.

KNOWLECHE
Knowl"eche, n. & v. [Obs.]

Defn: See Knowl, edge.
We consider and knowleche that we have offended. Chaucer.

KNOWLECHING
Knowl"ech*ing, n.

Defn: Knowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KNOWLEDGE
Knowl"edge, n. Etym: [OE. knowlage, knowlege, knowleche, knawleche.
The last part is the Icel. suffix -leikr, forming abstract nouns,
orig. the same as Icel. leikr game, play, sport, akin to AS. lac,
Goth. laiks dance. See Know, and cf. Lake, v. i., Lark a frolic.]

1. The act or state of knowing; clear perception of fact, truth, or
duty; certain apprehension; familiar cognizance; cognition.
Knowledge, which is the highest degree of the speculative faculties,
consists in the perception of the truth of affirmative or negative
propositions. Locke.

2. That which is or may be known; the object of an act of knowing; a
cognition; -- chiefly used in the plural.
There is a great difference in the delivery of the mathematics, which
are the most abstracted of knowledges. Bacon.
Knowledges is a term in frequent use by Bacon, and, though now
obsolete, should be revived, as without it we are compelled to borrow
"cognitions" to express its import. Sir W. Hamilton.
To use a word of Bacon's, now unfortunately obsolete, we must
determine the relative value of knowledges. H. Spencer.

3. That which is gained and preserved by knowing; instruction;
acquaintance; enlightenment; learning; scholarship; erudition.
Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. 1 Cor. viii. 1.
Ignorance is the curse of God; -Knowledge, the wing wherewith we fly
to heaven. Shak.

4. That familiarity which is gained by actual experience; practical
skill; as, a knowledge of life.
Shipmen that had knowledge of the sea. 1 Kings ix. 27.

5. Scope of information; cognizance; notice; as, it has not come to
my knowledge.
Why have I found grace in thine eyes, that thou shouldst take
knowledge of me Ruth ii. 10.

6. Sexual intercourse; -- usually preceded by carnal; as, carnal
knowledge.

Syn.
 -- See Wisdom.

KNOWLEDGE
Knowl"edge, v. t.

Defn: To acknowledge. [Obs.] "Sinners which knowledge their sins."
Tyndale.

KNOWN
Known, p. p.

Defn: of Know.

KNOW-NOTHING
Know"-noth`ing, n.

Defn: A member of a secret political organization in the United
States, the chief objects of which were the proscription of
foreigners by the repeal of the naturalization laws, and the
exclusive choice of native Americans for office.

Note: The party originated in 1853, and existed for about three
years. The members of it were called Know-nothings, because they
replied "I don't know," to any questions asked them in reference to
the party.

KNOW-NOTHINGISM
Know"-noth`ing*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines, principles, or practices, of the Know-nothings.

KNUBS
Knubs, n. pl.

Defn: Waste silk formed in winding off the threads from a cocoon.

KNUCKLE
Knuc"kle, n. Etym: [OE. knokel, knokil, AS. cuncel; akin to D.
knokkel, OFries. knokele, knokle, G. knöchel, Sw. knoge, Dan.
knokkel, G. knochen bone, and perh. to E. knock.]

1. The joint of a finger, particularly when made prominent by the
closing of the fingers. Davenant.

2. The kneejoint, or middle joint, of either leg of a quadruped,
especially of a calf; -- formerly used of the kneejoint of a human
being.
With weary knuckles on thy brim she kneeled sadly down. Golding.

3. The joint of a plant. [Obs.] Bacon.

4. (Mech.)

Defn: The joining pars of a hinge through which the pin or rivet
passes; a knuckle joint.

5. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A convex portion of a vessel's figure where a sudden change of
shape occurs, as in a canal boat, where a nearly vertical side joins
a nearly flat bottom.

6. A contrivance, usually of brass or iron, and furnished with
points, worn to protect the hand, to add force to a blow, and to
disfigure the person struck; as, brass knuckles; -- called also
knuckle duster. [Slang.] Knuckle joint (Mach.), a hinge joint, in
which a projection with an eye, on one piece, enters a jaw between
two corresponding projections with eyes, on another piece, and is
retained by a pin which passes through the eyes and forms the pivot.
 -- Knuckle of veal (Cookery), the lower part of a leg of veal, from
the line of the body to the knuckle.

KNUCKLE
Knuc"kle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Knuckled;; p. pr. & vb. n. Knuckling.]

Defn: To yield; to submit; -- used with down, to, or under. To
knuckle to. (a) To submit to in a contest; to yield to. [Colloq.] See
To knock under, under Knock, v. i. (b) To apply one's self vigorously
or earnestly to; as, to knuckle to work. [Colloq.]

KNUCKLE
Knuc"kle, v. t.

Defn: To beat with the knuckles; to pommel. [R.] Horace Smith.

KNUCKLED
Knuc"kled, a.

Defn: Jointed. [Obs.] Bacon.

KNUFF
Knuff, n. Etym: [Cf. Cnof a churl.]

Defn: A lout; a clown. [Obs.]
The country knuffs, Hob, Dick, and Hick, With clubs and clouted
shoon. Hayward.

KNUR
Knur, n. Etym: [See Knurl.]

Defn: A knurl. Woodward.

KNURL
Knurl, n. Etym: [See Knar, Gnar.]

Defn: A contorted knot in wood; a crossgrained protuberance; a
nodule; a boss or projection.

2. One who, or that which, is crossgrained.

KNURL
Knurl, v. t.

Defn: To provide with ridges, to assist the grasp, as in the edge of
a flat knob, or coin; to mill.

KNURLED
Knurled, a.

1. Full of knots; gnarled.

2. Milled, as the head of a screw, or the edge of a coin.

KNURLY
Knurl"y, [Compar. Knurlier (; superl. Knurliest.] Etym: [See Knur,
and cf. Gnarly.]

Defn: Full of knots; hard; tough; hence, capable of enduring or
resisting much.

KNURRY
Knur"ry, a.

Defn: Full of knots. [Obs.] Drayton.

KOAITA
Ko*ai"ta, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Coaita.

KOALA
Ko*a"la, n.

Defn: A tailless marsupial (Phascolarctos cinereus), found in
Australia. The female carries her young on the back of her neck.
Called also Australian bear, native bear, and native sloth.

KOB; KOBA
Kob, Ko"ba, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of African antelopes of the genus
Kobus, esp. the species Kobus sing-sing.

KOBALT
Ko"balt, n.

Defn: See Cobalt.

KOBELLITE
Ko"bel*lite, n. Etym: [From Franz von Kobell, of Munich.] (Min.)

Defn: A blackish gray mineral, a sulphide of antimony, bismuth, and
lead.

KOBOLD
Ko"bold, n. Etym: [G., perh. orig., house god, hose protector. See
Cobalt]

Defn: A kind of domestic spirit in German mythology, corresponding to
the Scottish brownie and the English Robin Goodfellow.

KODAK
Ko"dak, n.

Defn: A kind of portable camera.

KOEL
Ko"el, n. Etym: [Native name in India.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of cuckoos of the genus Eudynamys,
found in India, the East Indies, and Australia. They deposit their
eggs in the nests of other birds.

KOFF
Koff, n. Etym: [D. kof.]

Defn: A two-masted Dutch vessel.

KOFTGARI
Koft`ga*ri", a. [Hind. koft garï goldbeating. fr. Per. koft beating +
garï trade.]

Defn: Ornamental work produced by inlaying steel with gold, -- a
variety of damascening much used in the arts of India.

KOHINOOR; KOHNUR
Koh`i*noor", Koh`*nur, n. Etym: [Per. koh-i-n, lit., mountain of
light.]

Defn: A famous diamond, surrendered to the British crown on the
annexation of the Punjab. According to Hindoo legends, it was found
in a Golconda mine, and has been the property of various Hindoo and
Persian rulers.

KOHL
Kohl, n. Etym: [See Alcohol.]

Defn: A mixture of soot and other ingredients, used by Egyptian and
other Eastern women to darken the edges of the eyelids.

KOHL-RABI
Kohl"-ra`bi, n.; pl. Kohl-rabies. Etym: [G. Cf. Cole, Rape the
plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of cabbage, in which the edible part is a large,
turnip-shaped swelling of the stem, above the surface of the ground.

KOKAMA
Ko*ka"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gemsbok.

KOKLASS
Ko"klass, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any pheasant of the genus Pucrasia. The birds of this genus
inhabit India and China, and are distinguished by having a long
central and two lateral crests on the head. Called also pucras.

KOKOON
Ko*koon", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gnu.

KOLA; KOLA NUT
Ko"la, Kola nut .

Defn: Same as Cola, Cola nut.

KOLARIAN
Ko*la"ri*an, n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: An individual of one of the races of aboriginal inhabitants
which survive in Hindostan.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Kolarians.

KOLINSKY
Ko*lin"sky, n. [Russ. kolinski of Kola, a district in northeasten
Russia where the finest minks abound.]

Defn: Among furriers, any of several Asiatic minks; esp., Putorius
sibiricus, the yellowish brown pelt of which is valued, esp. for the
tail, used for making artists' brushes. Trade names for the fur are
red sable and Tatar sable.

KOLUSCHAN; KOLUSHAN
Ko*lusch"an, Ko*lush"an, a. [From Russ. kalyushka piece of wood (worn
in the nether lip).]

Defn: Designating, or pert. to, a linguistic stock of North American
Indians comprising the Tlinkit tribes of the Alexander Archipelago of
southeastern Alaska and adjacent coast lands. Their language bears
some affinity to Mexican tongues.

KOMENIC
Ko*me"nic, a. Etym: [Prob. G. mekonin (by transposition of letters) +
-ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from
meconic acid. [Written also comenic.]

KOMTOK
Kom"tok, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African freshwater fish (Protopterus annectens), belonging
to the Dipnoi. It can breathe air by means of its lungs, and when
waters dry up, it encases itself in a nest of hard mud, where it
remains till the rainy season. It is used as food.

KON
Kon, v. t.

Defn: To know. See Can, and Con. [Obs.]
Ye konnen thereon as much as any man. Chaucer.

KONITE
Ko"nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Conite.

KONSEAL
Kon*seal", n. [Prob. formed from conceal.] (Med.)

Defn: A form of capsule for inclosing a dose of medicine that is
offensive, caustic, or the like.

KONZE
Konze, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large African antelope (Alcelaphus Lichtensteini), allied to
the hartbeest, but having shorter and flatter horns, and lacking a
black patch on the face.

KOODOO
Koo"doo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South African antelope (Strepsiceros kudu). The males
have graceful spiral horns, sometimes four feet long. The general
color is reddish or grayish brown, with eight or nine white bands on
each side, and a pale dorsal stripe. The old males become dark bluish
gray, due to the skin showing through the hair. The females are
hornless. Called also nellut. [Written also kudu.]

KOOKOOM
Koo"koom, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The oryx or gemsbok. [Written also kookaam.]

KOOLOKAMBA
Koo`lo*kam"ba, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A west African anthropoid ape (Troglodytes koolokamba, or T.
Aubryi), allied to the chimpanzee and gorilla, and, in some respects,
intermediate between them.

KOOLSLAA
Kool"slaa`, n.

Defn: See Coleslaw.

KOORD
Koord, n.

Defn: See Kurd.

KOORDISH
Koord"ish, n.

Defn: See Kurdish.

KOORILIAN
Koo*ril"i*an, a & n.

Defn: Same as Kurilian.

KOP
Kop, n. [South Afr. D., fr. D. kop head, akin to G. kopf and prob. to
E. cop top.]

Defn: Hill; mountain. [South Africa]

KOPECK
Ko"peck, n. Etym: [Russ. kopeika.]

Defn: A small Russian coin. One hundred kopecks make a rouble, worth
about sixty cents. [Written also kopek, copec, and copeck.]

KOPJE
Kop"je, n. [South African D., dim. of kop. See Kop.]

Defn: A hillock; a small kop. [South Africa]

 The colloqual Dutch pronunciation as here given is the usual one in
South Africa.

KORAN
Ko"ran, n. Etym: [Ar. goran. See Alcoran.]

Defn: The Scriptures of the Mohammedans, containing the professed
revelations to Mohammed; -- called also Alcoran. [Written also Kuran
or Quran.]

KORIN
Ko"rin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The gazelle.

KORRIGUM
Kor"ri*gum, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West African antelope (Damalis Senegalensis), allied to the
sassaby. It is reddish gray, with a black face, and a black stripe on
the outside of the legs above the knees.

KOSHER
Ko"sher, a. [heb. koshër fit, proper.]

Defn: Ceremonially clean, according to Jewish law; --applied to food,
esp. to meat of animals slaughtered according to the requirements of
Jewish law. Opposed to tref. Hence, designating a shop, store, house,
etc., where such food is sold or used.

KOSHER
Ko"sher, n.

Defn: Kosher food; also, a kosher shop.

KOSHER
Ko"sher, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Koshered; p. pr. & vb. n. Koshering.]

Defn: To prepare in conformity with the requirements of the Jewish
law, as meat.

KOSMOS
Kos"mos, n.

Defn: See Cosmos. Gladstone.

KOTOW
Ko*tow", n. Etym: [Chinese, knock head.]

Defn: The prostration made by mandarins and others to their
superiors, either as homage or worship, by knocking the forehead on
the ground. There are degrees in the rite, the highest being
expressed by three knockings. [China]kowtow S. W. Williams.

KOTOW
Ko*tow", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kotowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Kotowing.]

Defn: To perform the kotow.kowtow

KOULAN
Kou"lan, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wild horse (Equus, or Asinus, onager) inhabiting the plants
of Central Asia; -- called also gour, khur, and onager. [Written also
kulan.]

Note: It is sometimes confounded with the dziggetai, to which it is
closely related. It is gray in winter, but fulvous in summer. It has
a well defined, dark, dorsal stripe, and a short, erect mane. In
size, it is intermediate between the horse and ass.

KOUMISS
Kou"miss, n. Etym: [Russ. kumys; of Mongolian origin.]

Defn: An intoxicating fermented or distilled liquor originally made
by the Tartars from mare's or camel's milk. It can be obtained from
any kind of milk, and is now largely made in Europe. [Written also
koumyss, kumiss, kumish, and kumys.]
Koumiss has from time immemorial served the Tartar instead of wine or
spirits. J. H. Newman.

KOUSSO
Kous"so, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Abyssinian rosaceous tree (Brayera anthelmintica), the
flowers of which are used as a vermifuge. [Written also cusso and
kosso.]

KOWTOW
Kow*tow", n. & v. i.

Defn: The same as Kotow.
I have salaamed and kowtowed to him. H. James.

KRA
Kra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-tailed ape (Macacus cynomolgus) of India and Sumatra. It
is reddish olive, spotted with black, and has a black tail.

KRAAL
Kraal, n. Etym: [D., a village, inclosure, park, prob. fr. Pg. curral
a cattle pen; the same word as Sp. corral. See Corral.]

1. A collection of huts within a stockade; a village; sometimes, a
single hut. [South Africa]

2. An inclosure into which are driven wild elephants which are to be
tamed and educated. [Ceylon]

KRAIT
Krait, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very venomous snake of India (Bungarus coeruleus), allied to
the cobra. Its upper parts are bluish or brownish black, often with
narrow white streaks; the belly is whitish.

KRAKEN
Kra"ken, n. Etym: [Prob. from OSw. krake, or ODan. krage the trunk of
a tree, the branches of which are not entirely cut off, to which it
was likened by the Norwegian mariners.]

Defn: A fabulous Scandinavian sea monster, often represented as
resembling an island, but sometimes as resembling an immense octopus.
To believe all that has been said of the sea serpent or kraken, would
be credulity; to reject the possibility of their existence, would be
presumption. Goldsmith.
Like a kraken huge and black. Longfellow.

KRAKOWIAK
Kra*ko"wi*ak, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A lively Polish dance. See Cracovienne.

KRAMERIA
Kra*me"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. So called after the German botanists, J.
G. H. & W. H. Kramer.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of spreading shrubs with many stems, from one species
of which (K. triandra), found in Peru, rhatany root, used as a
medicine, is obtained.

KRAMERIC
Kra*mer"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, Krameria (rhatany); as,
krameric acid, usually called ratanhia-tannic acid.

KRANG
Krang, n. Etym: [Cf. D. kreng a carcass.]

Defn: The carcass of a whale after the blubber has been removed.
[Written also crang and kreng.]

KRANGING HOOK
Krang"ing hook`. (Whaling)

Defn: A hook for holding the blubber while cutting it away. [Written
also cranging hook.]

KREATIC
Kre*at"ic, a.

Defn: See Creatic.

KREATIN
Kre"a*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Creatin.

KREATININ
Kre*at"i*nin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Creatinin.

KREEL
Kreel, n.

Defn: See Creel.

KREMLIN
Krem"lin, n. Etym: [Russ. kremle.]

Defn: The citadel of a town or city; especially, the citadel of
Moscow, a large inclosure which contains imperial palaces,
cathedrals, churches, an arsenal, etc. [Russia]

KREMS
Krems, n.

Defn: A variety of white lead. See Krems lead, under Lead, n.

KRENG
Kreng, n.

Defn: See Krang.

KREOSOTE
Kre"o*sote, n.

Defn: See Creosote.