

KREUTZER
Kreut"zer, n. Etym: [G. kreuzer.]

Defn: A small copper coin formerly used in South Germany; also, a
small Austrian copper coin. [Written also kreuzer.]

KRIEGSSPIEL
Kriegs"spiel` (, n. Etym: [G., fr. krieg war + spiel play.]

Defn: A game of war, played for practice, on maps. Farrow.

KRIS
Kris, n.

Defn: A Malay dagger. See Creese.

KRISHNA
Krish"na (, n. Etym: [Skr. (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: The most popular of the Hindoo divinities, usually held to be
the eighth incarnation of the god Vishnu.

KRITARCHY
Kri"tarch*y, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The rule of the judges over Israel.
Samson, Jephthah, Gideon, and other heroes of the kritarchy. Southey.

KROKIDOLITE
Kro*kid"o*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Crocidolite.

KRONE
Kro"ne, n.Etym: [Dan.]

Defn: A coin of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, of the value of about
twenty-eight cents. See Crown, n., 9.

KROOMAN
Kroo"man, n.; pl. Kroomen (.

Defn: One of a negro tribe of Liberia and the adjacent coast, whose
members are much employed on shipboard.

KRULLER
Krul"ler, n.

Defn: See Cruller.

KRUMMHORN; KRUMHORN
Krumm"horn`, Krum"horn`, n. Etym: [G. krummhorn horn.] (Mus.)
(a) A reed instrument of music of the cornet kind, now obsolete (see
Cornet, 1, a.)
(b) A reed stop in the organ; -- sometimes called cremona.

KRUPP GUN
Krupp" gun"

Defn: . A breech-loading steel cannon manufactured at the works of
Friedrich Krupp, at Essen in Prussia. Guns of over eight-inch bore
are made up of several concentric cylinders; those of a smaller size
are forged solid. Knight.

KRUPPIZE
Krupp"ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kruppized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Kruppizing.] (Metal.)

Defn: To treat by, or subject to, the Krupp process.

KRUPP PROCESS
Krupp process. (Iron Metal.)
 (a) A process practiced by Friedrich Krupp,  Essen, Germany, for
washing pig iron, differing from the Bell process in using manganese
as well as iron oxide, and performed in a Pernot furnace. Called also
the Bell-Krupp process.
 (b) A process for the manufacture of steel armor plates, invented or
practiced by Krupp, the details of which are secret. It is understood
to involve the addition of chromium as well as nickel to the metal,
and to include a treatment like that of the Harvey process with
unknown variations or additions. The product is mentioned by some
authors, as improved Harvey, or Harvey-Krupp armor plate.

KRYOLITE
Kry"o*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Cryolite.

KRYPTON
Kryp"ton, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  , neut. of  hidden.] (Chem.)

Defn: An inert gaseous element of the argon group, occurring in air
to the extent of about one volume in a million. It was discovered by
Ramsay and Travers in 1898. Liquefying point, -- 152º C.; symbol, Kr;
atomic weight, 83.0.

KSAR
Ksar, n.

Defn: See Czar.

KSHATRIYA; KSHATRUYA
Ksha"tri*ya, Ksha"tru*ya, n.Etym: [Skr. kshatriya one belonging to
the military caste.]

Defn: The military caste, the second of the four great Hindoo castes;
also, a member of that caste. See Caste. [India]

KUDA
Ku"da, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The East Indian tapir. See Tapir.

KUDOS
Ku"dos, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ky^dos glory.]

Defn: Glory; fame; renown; praise. W. H. Russel.

KUDOS
Ku"dos, v. t.

Defn: To praise; to extol; to glorify. "Kudos'd egregiously." [R.]
Southey.

KUDU
Ku"du, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Koodoo.

KUFIC
Ku"fic, a.

Defn: See Cufic.

KUKANG
Ku*kang", n. (Zoöl.) Etym: [Native name.]

Defn: The slow lemur. See Lemur.

KUKLUX
Ku`klux", n.

Defn: The name adopted in the southern part of the United States by a
secret political organization, active for several years after the
close of the Civil War, and having for its aim the repression of the
political power of the freedmen; -- called also Kuklux Klan.

KULAN
Ku"lan, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Koulan.

KULTURKAMPF
Kul*tur"kampf`, n. [G., fr. kultur, cultur, culture + kampf fight.]
(Ger. Hist.)

Defn: Lit., culture war; -- a name, originating with Virchow (1821 --
1902), given to a struggle between the the Roman Catholic Church and
the German government, chiefly over the latter's efforts to control
educational and ecclesiastical appointments in the interest of the
political policy of centralization. The struggle began with the
passage by the Prussian Diet in May, 1873, of the so-called May laws,
or Falk laws, aiming at the regulation of the clergy. Opposition
eventually compelled the government to change its policy, and from
1880 to 1887 laws virtually nullifying the May laws were enacted.

KUMISH; KUMISS
Ku"mish, Ku"miss, n.

Defn: See Koumiss.

KUMMEL
Kum"mel, n. Etym: [G. kümmel cumin, caraway seed, L. cuminum. Cf.
Cumin.]

Defn: A Russian and German liqueur, consisting of a sweetened spirit
flavored with caraway seeds.

KUMQUAT
Kum"quat, n. Etym: [Chin. kin keu.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small tree of the genus Citrus (C. Japonica) growing in China
and Japan; also, its small acid, orange-colored fruit used for
preserves.

KUPFERNICKEL
Kup"fer*nick"el, n. Etym: [G. See Copper, and Nickel.] (Min.)

Defn: Copper-nickel; niccolite. See Niccolite.

KURD
Kurd, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of a mountainous region of Western Asia
belonging to the Turkish and Persian monarchies. [Written also
Koord.]

KURDISH
Kurd"ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Kurds. [Written also Koordish.]

KURILIAN
Ku*ril"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Kurile Islands, a chain of islands in
the Pacific ocean, extending from the southern extremity of
Kamschatka to Yesso.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of the Kurile Islands. [Written also
Koorilian.]

KURO-SIWO
Ku"ro-Siwo, n. [Jap. kuroshio; kuro black + shio tide.]

Defn: See Japan Current, above.

KURSAAL
Kur"saal`, n.Etym: [G.]

Defn: A public hall or room, for the use of visitors at watering
places and health resorts in Germany.

KUSIMANSE
Ku`si*man"se, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous animal (Crossarchus obscurus) of tropical Africa.
It its allied to the civets. Called also kusimansel, and mangue.

KUSKUS
Kus"kus, Etym: [Per. & Hind. khaskhas.] (Bot.)

Defn: See Vetiver.

KUSSIER
Kus"si*er, n.

Defn: (Mus.) A Turkish instrument of music, with a hollow body
covered with skin, over which five strings are stretched. [Written
also kussir.]

KUTAUSS
Ku*tauss", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The India civet (Viverra zibetha).

KUTCH
Kutch, n. (Goldbeating)

Defn: The packet of vellum leaves in which the gold is first beaten
into thin sheets.

KUTCH
Kutch, n.

Defn: See Catechu.

KY
Ky, n. pl.

Defn: Kine. [Scot.] See Kee, Kie, and Kine.

KYABOCA WOOD
Ky`a*bo"ca wood`. (Bot.)
(a) Amboyna wood.
(b) Sandalwood (Santalum album).

KYACK
Ky"ack, n.

Defn: A pack sack to be swung on either side of a packsaddle.
[Western U. S.]

KYANITE
Ky"an*ite, n.

Defn: See Cyanite.

KYANIZE
Ky"an*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kyanized; p. pr. & vb. n. Kyanizing.]
Etym: [From Mr. Kyan, the inventor of the process.]

Defn: To render (wood) proof against decay by saturating with a
solution of corrosive sublimate in open tanks, or under pressure.

KYANOL
Ky"a*nol, n. Etym: [See Cyanite.] (Chem.)
(a) Aniline. [Obs.]
(b) A base obtained from coal tar. Ure.

KYANOPHYLL
Ky*an"o*phyll, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Cyanophyll.

KYAR
Kyar, n.

Defn: Cocoanut fiber, or the cordage made from it. See Coir.

KYAW
Kyaw, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A daw. [Scot.]

KYD
Kyd,

Defn: p. p. of Kythe.

KYDDE
Kyd"de (,

Defn: imp. of Kythe, to show. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: Spenser erroneously uses kydst to mean "knowest."

KYKE
Kyke, v. i. Etym: [See 1st Kike.]

Defn: To look steadfastly; to gaze. [Obs.] [Written also kike, keke.]
This Nicholas sat ever gaping upright, As he had kyked on the newe
moon. Chaucer.

KYLEY
Ky"ley, n.

Defn: A variety of the boomerang.

KYLOES
Ky"loes, n. pl.

Defn: The cattle of the Hebrides, or of the Highlands. [Scot.] Sir W.
Scott.

KYMNEL
Kym"nel, n.

Defn: See Kimnel. [Obs.] Chapman.

KYMOGRAPH
Ky"mo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring, and recording graphically, the
pressure of the blood in any of the blood vessels of a living animal;
-- called also kymographion.

KYMOGRAPHIC
Ky`mo*graph"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a kymograph; as, a kymographic tracing.

KYMRIC
Kym"ric, a & n.

Defn: See Cymric, a. & n.

KYMRY
Kym"ry, n.

Defn: See Cymry.

KYNREDE
Kyn"rede, n.

Defn: Kindred. [Obs.] Chaucer.

KYNURENIC
Ky`nu*ren"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from the urine
of dogs. By decomposition the acid yields a nitrogenous base (called
kynurin) and carbonic acid. [Written also cynurenic.]

KYRIE
Kyr"i*e, n.

Defn: See Kyrie eleison.

KYRIE ELEISON
Kyr"i*e e*lei"son. Etym: [Gr. ky`rie 'elei^son .]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Greek words, meaning "Lord, have mercy upon us," used in the
Mass, the breviary offices, the litany of the saints, etc. Addis &
Arnold.

2. The name given to the response to the Commandments, in the service
of the Church of England and of the Protestant Episcopal Church.

KYRIELLE
Kyr`i*elle, n. Etym: [Cf. F. kyrielle.]

Defn: A litany beginning with the words. "Kyrie eleison." Shipley.

KYRIOLEXY; KYRIOLOGY
Kyr"i*o*lex`y, Kyr`i*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. Curiologic.]

Defn: The use of literal or simple expressions, as distinguished from
the use of figurative or obscure ones. Krauth-Fleming.

KYRIOLOGICAL
Kyr`i*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Curiologic.]

Defn: Serving to denote objects by conventional signs or alphabetical
characters; as, the original Greek alphabet of sixteen letters was
called kyriologic, because it represented the pure elementary sounds.
See Curiologic. [Written also curiologic and kuriologic.]

Note: The term is also applied, as by Warburton, to those Egyptian
hieroglyphics, in which a part is put conventionally for the whole,
as in depicting a battle by two hands, one holding a shield and the
other a bow.

KYTHE; KITHE
Kythe, Kithe, v. t. [imp. Kydde, Kidde (kîd"de); p. p. Kythed, Kid;
p. pr. & vb. n. Kything.] Etym: [OE. kythen, kithen, cu, to make
known, AS. c, fr. c known. Uncouth, Ca to be able, and cf. Kith.]

Defn: To make known; to manifest; to show; to declare. [Obs: or
Scot.]
For gentle hearte kytheth gentilesse. Chaucer.

KYTHE
Kythe, v. t.

Defn: To come into view; to appear. [Scot.]
It kythes bright . . . because all is dark around it. Sir W. Scott.

KYTOMITON
Ky*tom"i*ton, n.Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: See Karyomiton.

KYTOPLASMA
Ky`to*plas"ma, n.Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: See Karyoplasma.

L

1. L is the twelfth letter of the English alphabet, and a vocal
consonant. It is usually called a semivowel or liquid. Its form and
value are from the Greek, through the Latin, the form of the Greek
letter being from the Phoenician, and the ultimate origin prob.
Egyptian. Etymologically, it is most closely related to r and u; as
in pilgrim, peregrine, couch (fr. collocare), aubura (fr. LL.
alburnus).

Note: At the end of monosyllables containing a single vowel, it is
often doubled, as in fall, full, bell; but not after digraphs, as in
foul, fool, prowl, growl, foal. In English words, the terminating
syllable le is unaccented, the e is silent, and l is preceded by a
voice glide, as in able, eagle, pronounced a''b'l, ''g'l. See Guide
to Pronunciation, § 241.

2. As a numeral, L stands for fifty in the English, as in the Latin
language.
For 50 the Romans used the Chalcidian chi, I. Taylor (The Alphabet).

L
L, n.

1. An extension at right angles to the length of a main building,
giving to the ground plan a form resembling the letter L; sometimes
less properly applied to a narrower, or lower, extension in the
direction of the length of the main building; a wing. [Written also
ell.]

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A short right-angled pipe fitting, used in connecting two pipes
at right angles. [Written also ell.]

LA
La, n. (Mus.)
(a) A syllable applied to the sixth tone of the scale in music in
solmization.
(b) The tone A; -- so called among the French and Italians.

LA
La, interj. Etym: [Cf. Lo.]

1. Look; see; behold; -- sometimes followed by you. [Obs.] Shak.

2. An exclamation of surprise; -- commonly followed by me; as, La me!
[Low]

LAAGER
Laa"ger (lal"ger or lä"ger), n. [D., also leger. Cf. 2d Leaguer,
Lair.]

Defn: A camp, esp. one with an inclosure of travelers' wagons for
temporary defense. [South Africa]

Wagons . . . can be readily formed into a laager, a camp, by being
drawn into a circle, with the oxen placed inside and so kept safe
from the attacks of wild beasts.
James Bryce.

LAAGER
Laa"ger, v. t. & i. [From Laager, n.]

Defn: To form into, or camp in, a laager, or protected camp.

LAAS
Laas, n.

Defn: A lace. See Lace. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAB
Lab, v. i. Etym: [Cf. OD. labben to babble.]

Defn: To prate; to gossip; to babble; to blab. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAB
Lab, n.

Defn: A telltale; a prater; a blabber. [Obs.] "I am no lab." Chaucer.

LABADIST
Lab"a*dist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Jean de Labadie, a religious teacher of the 17th
century, who left the Roman Catholic Church and taught a kind of
mysticism, and the obligation of community of property among
Christians.

LABARRAQUE'S SOLUTION
La`bar`raque's" so*lu"tion. Etym: [From Labarraque, a Parisian
apothecary.] (Med.)

Defn: An aqueous solution of hypochlorite of sodium, extensively used
as a disinfectant.

LABARUM
Lab"a*rum (, n.; pl. Labara. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The standard adopted by the Emperor Constantine after his
conversion to Christianity. It is described as a pike bearing a silk
banner hanging from a crosspiece, and surmounted by a golden crown.
It bore a monogram of the first two letters (CHR) of the name of
Christ in its Greek form. Later, the name was given to various
modifications of this standard.

LABDANUM
Lab"da*num, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Ladanum.

LABEFACTION
Lab`e*fac"tion, n. Etym: [See Labefy.]

Defn: The act of labefying or making weak; the state of being
weakened; decay; ruin.
There is in it such a labefaction of all principles as may be
injurious to morality. Johnson.

LABEFY
Lab"e*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. labefacere; labare to totter + facere to
make.]

Defn: To weaken or impair. [R.]

LABEL
La"bel, n. Etym: [OF. label sort of ribbon or fringe, label in
heraldry, F. lambeau shred, strip, rag; of uncertain origin; cf.
L.labellum, dim. of labrum lip, edge, margin, G. lappen flap, patch,
rag, tatter (cf. Lap of a dress), W. llab, llabed, label, flap, Gael.
leab, leob, slice, shred, hanging lip.]

1. A tassel. [Obs.] Huloet. Fuller.

2. A slip of silk, paper, parchment, etc., affixed to anything,
usually by an inscription, the contents, ownership, destination,
etc.; as, the label of a bottle or a package.

3. A slip of ribbon, parchment, etc., attached to a document to hold
the appended seal; also, the seal.

4. A writing annexed by way of addition, as a codicil added to a
will.

5. (Her.)

Defn: A barrulet, or, rarely, a bendlet, with pendants, or points,
usually three, especially used as a mark of cadency to distinguish an
eldest or only son while his father is still living.

6. A brass rule with sights, formerly used, in connection with a
circumferentor, to take altitudes. Knight.

7. (Gothic Arch.)

Defn: The name now generally given to the projecting molding by the
sides, and over the tops, of openings in mediæval architecture. It
always has a Arch. Pub. Soc.

8. In mediæval art, the representation of a band or scroll containing
an inscription. Fairholt.

LABEL
La"bel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Labeled or Labelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Labeling or Labelling.]

1. To affix a label to; to mark with a name, etc.; as, to label a
bottle or a package.

2. To affix in or on a label. [R.]

LABELER
La"bel*er, n.

Defn: One who labels. [Written also labeller.]

LABELLUM
La*bel"lum, n.; pl. L. Labella, E. Labellums. Etym: [L., dim. of
labrum lip.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The lower or apparently anterior petal of an orchidaceous
flower, often of a very curious shape.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small appendage beneath the upper lip or labrum of certain
insects.

LABENT
La"bent, a. Etym: [L. labens, p. pr. of labi to slide, glide.]

Defn: Slipping; sliding; gliding. [R.]

LABIA
La"bi*a, n. pl.

Defn: See Labium.

LABIAL
La"bi*al, a. Etym: [LL. labialis, fr. L. labium lip: cf. F. labial.
See Lip.]

1. Of or pertaining to the lips or labia; as, labial veins.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Furnished with lips; as, a labial organ pipe.

3. (Phonetics)
(a) Articulated, as a consonant, mainly by the lips, as b, p, m, w.
(b) Modified, as a vowel, by contraction of the lip opening, as oo
(food), o (old), etc., and as eu and u in French, and ö, ü in German.
See Guide to Pronunciation,

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the labium; as, the labial palpi of
insects. See Labium.

LABIAL
La"bi*al, n.

1. (Phonetics)

Defn: A letter or character representing an articulation or sound
formed or uttered chiefly with the lips, as b, p, w.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: An organ pipe that is furnished with lips; a flue pipe.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the scales which border the mouth of a fish or reptile.

LABIALISM
La"bi*al*ism, n. (Phonetics)

Defn: The quality of being labial; as, the labialism of an
articulation; conversion into a labial, as of a sound which is
different in another language. J. Peile.

LABIALIZATION
La`bi*al*i*za"tion, n. (Phonetics)

Defn: The modification of an articulation by contraction of the lip
opening.

LABIALIZE
La"bi*al*ize, v. t. (Phonetics)

Defn: To modify by contraction of the lip opening.

LABIALLY
La"bi*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a labial manner; with, or by means of, the lips.

LABIATE
La"bi*ate, v. t.

Defn: To labialize. Brewer.

LABIATE
La"bi*ate, a. Etym: [NL. labiatus, fr. L. labium lip.] (Bot.)
(a) Having the limb of a tubular corolla or calyx divided into two
unequal parts, one projecting over the other like the lips of a
mouth, as in the snapdragon, sage, and catnip.
(b) Belonging to a natural order of plants (Labiatæ), of which the
mint, sage, and catnip are examples. They are mostly aromatic herbs.

LABIATE
La"bi*ate, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the order Labiatæ.

LABIATED
La"bi*a`ted, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Labiate, a. (a).

LABIATIFLORAL; LABIATIFLORAL
La`bi*a`ti*flo"ral, La`bi*a`ti*flo"ral, a. Etym: [Labiate + L. flos,
floris, flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having labiate flowers, as the snapdragon.

LABIDOMETER
Lab`i*dom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr.meter: cf. F. labidometre.] (Med.)

Defn: A forceps with a measuring attachment for ascertaining the size
of the fetal head.

LABILE
La"bile, a. Etym: [L. labilis apt to slip, fr. labi to slip.]

Defn: Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize. [Obs.] Cheyne.

LABILITY
La*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Liability to lapse, err, or apostatize. [Archaic] Coleridge.

LABIMETER
La*bim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Cf. F. labimetre.] (Med.)

Defn: See Labidometer.

LABIODENTAL
La`bi*o*den"tal, a. Etym: [Labium + dental.] (Phonetics)

Defn: Formed or pronounced by the cooperation of the lips and teeth,
as f and v.
 -- n.

Defn: A labiodental sound or letter.

LABIONASAL
La`bi*o*na"sal, a. Etym: [Labium + nasal.] (Phonetics)

Defn: Formed by the lips and the nose.
 -- n.

Defn: A labionasal sound or letter.

LABIOPLASTY
La"bi*o*plas`ty (la"bi*o*plas`ty), n. [Labium + -plasty.] (Surg.)

Defn: A plastic operation for making a new lip, or for replacing a
lost tissue of a lip.

LABIOSE
La"bi*ose`, a. Etym: [From Labium.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the appearance of being labiate; -- said of certain
polypetalous corollas.

LABIPALP
La"bi*palp, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A labial palp.

LABIPALPUS
La`bi*pal"pus, n.; pl. Labipalpi (. Etym: [NL. See Labium, and
Palpus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the labial palpi of an insect. See Illust. under Labium.

LABIUM
La"bi*um, n. ; pl. L. Labia, E. Labiums. Etym: [L.]

1. A lip, or liplike organ.

2. The lip of an organ pipe.

3. pl. (Anat.)

Defn: The folds of integument at the opening of the vulva.

4. (Zoöl.)
(a) The organ of insects which covers the mouth beneath, and serves
as an under lip. It consists of the second pair of maxillæ, usually
closely united in the middle line, but bearing a pair of palpi in
most insects. It often consists of a thin anterior part (ligula or
palpiger) and a firmer posterior plate (mentum).
(b) Inner margin of the aperture of a shell.

LABLAB
Lab"lab, n. (Bot.)

Defn: an East Indian name for several twining leguminous plants
related to the bean, but commonly applied to the hyacinth bean
(Delichos Lablab).

LABOR
La"bor, n. Etym: [OE. labour, OF. labour, laber, labur, F. labeur, L.
labor; cf. Gr. labh to get, seize.] [Written also labour.]

1. Physical toil or bodily exertion, especially when fatiguing,
irksome, or unavoidable, in distinction from sportive exercise; hard,
muscular effort directed to some useful end, as agriculture,
manufactures, and like; servile toil; exertion; work.
God hath set Labor and rest, as day and night, to men Successive.
Milton.

2. Intellectual exertion; mental effort; as, the labor of compiling a
history.

3. That which requires hard work for its accomplishment; that which
demands effort.
Being a labor of so great a difficulty, the exact performance thereof
we may rather wish than look for. Hooker.

4. Travail; the pangs and efforts of childbirth.
The queen's in labor, They say, in great extremity; and feared She'll
with the labor end. Shak.

5. Any pang or distress. Shak.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The pitching or tossing of a vessel which results in the
straining of timbers and rigging.

7. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A measure of land in Mexico and Texas, equivalent to an area of
177 Bartlett.

Syn.
 -- Work; toil; drudgery; task; exertion; effort; industry;
painstaking. See Toll.

LABOR
La"bor, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Labored; p. pr. & vb. n. Laboring.] Etym:
[OE. labouren, F. labourer, L. laborare. See Labor, n.] [Written also
labour.]

1. To exert muscular strength; to exert one's strength with painful
effort, particularly in servile occupations; to work; to toil.
Adam, well may we labor still to dress This garden. Milton.

2. To exert one's powers of mind in the prosecution of any design; to
strive; to take pains.

3. To be oppressed with difficulties or disease; to do one's work
under conditions which make it especially hard, wearisome; to move
slowly, as against opposition, or under a burden; to be burdened; --
often with under, and formerly with of.
The stone that labors up the hill. Granville.
The line too labors,and the words move slow. Pope.
To cure the disorder under which he labored. Sir W. Scott.
Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give
you rest. Matt. xi. 28

4. To be in travail; to suffer the pangs of childbirth.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To pitch or roll heavily, as a ship in a turbulent sea. Totten.

LABOR
La"bor, v. t. Etym: [F. labourer, L. laborare.]

1. To work at; to work; to till; to cultivate by toil.
The most excellent lands are lying fallow, or only labored by
children. W. Tooke.

2. To form or fabricate with toil, exertion, or care. "To labor arms
for Troy." Dryden.

3. To prosecute, or perfect, with effort; to urge streas, to labor a
point or argument.

4. To belabor; to beat. [Obs.] Dryden.

LABORANT
Lab"o*rant, n. Etym: [L.laborans, p. pr. of laborare to labor.]

Defn: A chemist. [Obs.] Boyle.

LABORATORY
Lab"o*ra*to*ry, n.; pl. Laboratories. Etym: [Shortened fr.
elaboratory; cf. OF. elaboratoire, F. laboratoire. See Elaborate,
Labor.] [Formerly written also elaboratory.]

Defn: The workroom of a chemist; also, a place devoted to experiments
in any branch of natural science; as, a chemical, physical, or
biological laboratory. Hence, by extension, a place where something
is prepared, or some operation is performed; as, the liver is the
laboratory of the bile.

LABOR DAY
Labor Day.

Defn: In most of the States and Territories of the United States, a
day, usually the first Monday of September, set aside as a legal
holiday, in honor of, or in the interest of, workingmen as a class.
Also, a similar holiday in Canada, Australia, etc.

LABORED
La"bored, a.

Defn: Bearing marks of labor and effort; elaborately wrought; not
easy or natural; as, labored poetry; a labored style.

LABOREDLY
La"bored*ly, adv.

Defn: In a labored manner; with labor.

LABORER
La"bor*er, n. Etym: [Written also labourer.]

Defn: One who labors in a toilsome occupation; a person who does work
that requires strength rather than skill, as distinguished from that
of an artisan.

LABORING
La"bor*ing, a.

1. That labors; performing labor; esp., performing coarse, heavy
work, not requiring skill also, set apart for labor; as, laboring
days.
The sleep of a laboring man is sweet. eccl. v. 12.

2. Suffering pain or grief. Pope. Laboring oar, the oar which
requires most strength and exertion; often used figuratively; as, to
have, or pull, the laboring oar in some difficult undertaking.

LABORIOUS
La*bo"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. laboriosus,fr. labor labor: cf. F.
laborieux.]

1. Requiring labor, perseverance, or sacrifices; toilsome; tiresome.
Dost thou love watchings, abstinence, or toil, Laborious virtues all
Learn these from Cato. Addison.

2. Devoted to labor; diligent; industrious; as, a laborious mechanic.
 -- La*bo"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- La*bo"ri*ous*ness, n.

LABORLESS
La"bor*less, a.

Defn: Not involving labor; not laborious; easy.

LABOROUS
La"bor*ous, a.

Defn: Laborious. [Obs.] Wyatt.
 -- La"bor*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

LABOR-SAVING
La"bor-sav`ing, a.

Defn: Saving labor; adapted to supersede or diminish the labor of
men; as, laborsaving machinery.

LABORSOME
La"bor*some, a.

1. Made with, or requiring, great labor, pains, or diligence. [Obs.]
Shak.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Likely or inclined to roll or pitch, as a ship in a heavy sea;
having a tendency to labor.

LABRADOR
Lab`ra*dor", n.

Defn: A region of British America on the Atlantic coast, north of
Newfoundland. Labrador duck (Zoöl.), a sea duck (Camtolaimus
Labradorius) allied to the eider ducks. It was formerly common on the
coast of New England, but is now supposed to be extinct, no specimens
having been reported since 1878.
 -- Labrador feldspar. See Labradorite.
 -- Labrador tea (Bot.), a name of two low, evergreen shrubs of the
genus Ledum (L. palustre and L. latifolium), found in Northern Europe
and America. They are used as tea in British America, and in
Scandinavia as a substitute for hops.

LABRADORITE
Lab"ra*dor`ite (, n. (Min.)

Defn: A kind of feldspar commonly showing a beautiful play of colors,
and hence much used for ornamental purposes. The finest specimens
come from Labrador. See Feldspar.

LABRAS
La"bras, n. pl. Etym: [L.labrum; cf. It. labbro, pl. labbra.]

Defn: Lips. [Obs. & R.] Shak.

LABRET
La"bret, n. [L. labrum lip.] (Anthropology)

Defn: A piece of wood, shell, stone, or other substance, worn in a
perforation of the lip or cheek by many savages.

LABROID
La"broid, a. Etym: [Labrus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like the genus Labrus; belonging to the family Labridæ, an
extensive family of marine fishes, often brilliantly colored, which
are very abundant in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The tautog and
cunner are American examples.

LABROSE
La"brose`, a. Etym: [L. labrosus, fr. labrum lip.]

Defn: Having thick lips.

LABRUM
La"brum, n.; pl. L. Labra, E. Labrums. Etym: [L.]

1. A lip or edge, as of a basin.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) An organ in insects and crustaceans covering the upper part of
the mouth, and serving as an upper lip. See Illust. of Hymenoptera.
(b) The external margin of the aperture of a shell. See Univalve.

LABRUS
La"brus, n.; pl. Labri (-bri). Etym: [L., a sort of fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine fishes, including the wrasses of Europe. See
Wrasse.

LABURNIC
La*bur`nic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the laburnum.

LABURNINE
La*bur`nine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous alkaloid found in the unripe seeds of the laburnum.

LABURNUM
La*bur"num, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small leguminous tree (Cytisus Laburnum), native of the Alps.
The plant is reputed to be poisonous, esp. the bark and seeds. It has
handsome racemes of yellow blossoms.

Note: Scotch laburnum (Cytisus alpinus) is similar, but has smooth
leaves; purple laburnum is C. purpureus.

LABYRINTH
Lab"y*rinth, n. Etym: [L. labyrinthus, Gr. laby`rinthos: cf. F.
labyrinthe.]

1. An edifice or place full of intricate passageways which render it
difficult to find the way from the interior to the entrance; as, the
Egyptian and Cretan labyrinths.

2. Any intricate or involved inclosure; especially, an ornamental
maze or inclosure in a park or garden.

3. Any object or arrangement of an intricate or involved form, or
having a very complicated nature.
The serpent . . . fast sleeping soon he found, In labyrinth of many a
round self-rolled. Milton.
The labyrinth of the mind. Tennyson.

4. An inextricable or bewildering difficulty.
I' the maze and winding labyrinths o' the world. Denham.

5. (Anat.)

Defn: The internal ear. See Note under Ear.

6. (Metal.)

Defn: A series of canals through which a stream of water is directed
for suspending, carrying off, and depositing at different distances,
the ground ore of a metal. Ure.

7. (Arch.)

Defn: A pattern or design representing a maze, -- often inlaid in the
tiled floor of a church, etc.

Syn.
 -- Maze; confusion; intricacy; windings.
 -- Labyrinth, Maze. Labyrinth, originally; the name of an edifice or
excavation, carries the idea of design, and construction in a
permanent form, while maze is used of anything confused or confusing,
whether fixed or shifting. Maze is less restricted in its figurative
uses than labyrinth. We speak of the labyrinth of the ear, or of the
mind, and of a labyrinth of difficulties; but of the mazes of the
dance, the mazes of political intrigue, or of the mind being in a
maze.

LABYRINTHAL
Lab`y*rin"thal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a labyrinth; intricate;
labyrinthian.

LABYRINTHIAN
Lab`y*rin"thi*an (, a.

Defn: Intricately winding; like a labyrinth; perplexed; labyrinthal.

LABYRINTHIBRANCH
Lab`y*rin"thi*branch, a. Etym: [See Labyrinth, and Branchia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthici.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Labyrinthici.

LABYRINTHIC; LABYRINTHICAL
Lab`y*rin"thic, Lab`y*rin`thic*al, a. Etym: [L. labyrinthicus: cf. F.
labyrinthique.]

Defn: Like or pertaining to a labyrinth.

LABYRINTHICI
Lab`y*rin"thi*ci, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Labyrinth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of teleostean fishes, including the Anabas, or
climbing perch, and other allied fishes.

Note: They have, connected with the gill chamber, a special cavity in
which a labyrinthiform membrane is arranged so as to retain water to
supply the gills while the fish leaves the water and travels about on
land, or even climbs trees.

LABYRINTHIFORM
Lab`y*rin"thi*form, a. Etym: [Labyrinth + -form: cf. F.
labyrinthiforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a labyrinth; intricate.

LABYRINTHINE
Lab`y*rin"thine, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, a labyrinth; labyrinthal.

LABYRINTHODON
Lab`y*rin"tho*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of very large fossil amphibians, of the Triassic
period, having bony plates on the under side of the body. It is the
type of the order Labyrinthodonta. Called also Mastodonsaurus.

LABYRINTHODONT
Lab`y*rin"tho*dont, a. (Paleon.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthodonta.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Labyrinthodonta.

LABYRINTHODONTA
Lab`y*rin`tho*don"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Labyrinthodon.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct order of Amphibia, including the typical genus
Labyrinthodon, and many other allied forms, from the Carboniferous,
Permian, and Triassic formations. By recent writers they are divided
into two or more orders. See Stegocephala.

LAC; LAKH
Lac, Lakh (, n. Etym: [Hind. lak, lakh, laksh, Skr. laksha a mark,
sign, lakh.]

Defn: One hundred thousand; also, a vaguely great number; as, a lac
of rupees. [Written also lack.] [East Indies]

LAC
Lac, n. Etym: [Per. lak; akin to Skr. laksha: cf. F. lague, It. & NL.
lacca. Cf. Lake a color, Lacquer, Litmus.]

Defn: A resinous substance produced mainly on the banyan tree, but to
some extent on other trees, by the Coccus lacca, a scale-shaped
insect, the female of which fixes herself on the bark, and exudes
from the margin of her body this resinous substance.

Note: Stick-lac is the substance in its natural state, incrusting
small twigs. When broken off, and the coloring matter partly removed,
the granular residuum is called seed-lac. When melted, and reduced to
a thin crust, it is called shell-lac or shellac. Lac is an important
ingredient in sealing wax, dyes, varnishes, and lacquers. Ceylon lac,
a resinous exudation of the tree Croton lacciferum, resembling lac.
 -- Lac dye, a scarlet dye obtained from stick-lac.
 -- Lac lake, the coloring matter of lac dye when precipitated from
its solutions by alum.
 -- Mexican lac, an exudation of the tree Croton Draco.

LACCIC
Lac"cic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. laccique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to lac, or produced from it; as, laccic acid.

LACCIN
Lac"cin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. laccine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow amorphous substance obtained from lac.

LACCOLITE; LACCOLITH
Lac"co*lite, Lac"co*lith, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite, -lith.] (Geol.)

Defn: A mass of igneous rock intruded between sedimentary beds and
resulting in a mammiform bulging of the overlying strata.
 -- Lac`co*lit"ic, a.

LACE
Lace (las), n. Etym: [OE. las, OF. laz, F. lacs, dim. lacet, fr. L.
laqueus noose, snare; prob. akin to lacere to entice. Cf. Delight,
Elicit, Lasso, Latchet.]

1. That which binds or holds, especially by being interwoven; a
string, cord, or band, usually one passing through eyelet or other
holes, and used in drawing and holding together parts of a garment,
of a shoe, of a machine belt, etc.
His hat hung at his back down by a lace. Chaucer.
For striving more, the more in laces strong Himself he tied. Spenser.

2. A snare or gin, especially one made of interwoven cords; a net.
[Obs.] Fairfax.
Vulcanus had caught thee [Venus] in his lace. Chaucer.

3. A fabric of fine threads of linen, silk, cotton, etc., often
ornamented with figures; a delicate tissue of thread, much worn as an
ornament of dress.
Our English dames are much given to the wearing of costlylaces.
Bacon.

4. Spirits added to coffee or some other beverage. [Old Slang]
Addison. Alencon lace, a kind of point lace, entirely of needlework,
first made at Alencon in France, in the 17th century. It is very
durable and of great beauty and cost.
 -- Bone lace, Brussels lace, etc. See under Bone, Brussels, etc.
 -- Gold lace, or Silver lace, lace having warp threads of silk, or
silk and cotton, and a weft of silk threads covered with gold (or
silver), or with gilt.
 -- Lace leather, thin, oil-tanned leather suitable for cutting into
lacings for machine belts.
 -- Lace lizard (Zoöl.), a large, aquatic, Australian lizard
(Hydrosaurus giganteus), allied to the monitors.
 -- Lace paper, paper with an openwork design in imitation of lace.
 -- Lace piece (Shipbuilding), the main piece of timber which
supports the beak or head projecting beyond the stem of a ship.
 -- Lace pillow, and Pillow lace. See under Pillow.

LACE
Lace, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Laced (ast); p. pr. & vb. n. Lacing.]

1. To fasten with a lace; to draw together with a lace passed through
eyelet holes; to unite with a lace or laces, or, figuratively. with
anything resembling laces. Shak.
When Jenny's stays are newly laced. Prior.

2. To adorn with narrow strips or braids of some decorative material;
as, cloth laced with silver. Shak.

3. To beat; to lash; to make stripes on. [Colloq.]
I'll lace your coat for ye. L'Estrange.

4. To add spirits to (a beverage). [Old Slang]

LACE
Lace, v. i.

Defn: To be fastened with a lace, or laces; as, these boots lace.

LACE-BARK
Lace"-bark`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrub in the West Indies (Lagetta Iintearia); -- so called
from the lacelike layers of its inner bark.

LACED
Laced, a.

1. Fastened with a lace or laces; decorated with narrow strips or
braid. See Lace, v. t.

2. Decorated with the fabric lace.
A shirt with laced ruffles. Fielding.
Laced mutton, a prostitute. [Old slang] -- Laced stocking, a strong
stocking which can be tightly laced; -- used in cases of weak legs,
varicose veins, etc. Dunglison.

LACEDAEMONIAN
Lac`e*dæ*mo"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Lacedamonius, Gr. Lakedaimo`nios, fr.
Lakedai`mwn Lacedæmon.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lacedæmon or Sparta, the chief city of
Laconia in the Peloponnesus.
 -- n.

Defn: A Spartan. [Written also Lacedemonian.]

LACEMAN
Lace"man, n.; pl. Lacemen (.

Defn: A man who deals in lace.

LACERABLE
Lac"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. lacerabilis: cf. F. lacérable.]Etym:

Defn: That can be lacerated or torn.

LACERATE
Lac"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lacerated; p. pr. & vb. n. Lacerating
().] Etym: [L. laceratus, p. p. of lacerare to lacerate, fr. lacer
mangled, lacerated; cf. Gr. slay.]

Defn: To tear; to rend; to separate by tearing; to mangle; as, to
lacerate the flesh. Hence: To afflict; to torture; as, to lacerate
the heart.

LACERATE; LACERATED
Lac"er*ate, Lac"er*a`ted, p. a. Etym: [L. laceratus, p. p.]

1. Rent; torn; mangled; as, a lacerated wound.
By each other's fury lacerate Southey.

2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Jagged, or slashed irregularly, at the end, or along the edge.

LACERATION
Lac`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L.laceratio: cf. F. lacération.]

1. The act of lacerating.

2. A breach or wound made by lacerating. Arbuthnot.

LACERATIVE
Lac"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Lacerating, or having the power to lacerate; as, lacerative
humors. Harvey.

LACERT
La"cert, n. Etym: [OE. lacerte. See Lacertus.]

Defn: A muscle of the human body. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LACERTA
La*cer"ta, n. Etym: [L. lacertus the arm.]

Defn: A fathom. [Obs.] Domesday Book.

LACERTA
La*cer"ta, n. Etym: [L. a lizard. See Lizard.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of lizards. See Lizard.

Note: Formerly it included nearly all the known lizards. It is now
restricted to certain diurnal Old World species, like the green
lizard (Lacerta viridis) and the sand lizard (L. agilis), of Europe.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The Lizard, a northern constellation.

LACERTIAN
La*cer"tian, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lacertien.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like a lizard; of or pertaining to the Lacertilia.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Lacertilia.

LACERTILIA
Lac`er*til"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L.lacertus a lizard.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Reptilia, which includes the lizards.

Note: They are closely related to the snakes, and life the latter,
usually have the body covered with scales or granules. They usually
have eyelids, and most of then have well-formed legs; but in some
groups (amphisbæna, glass-snake, etc.) the legs are wanting and the
body is serpentlike. None are venomous, unless Heloderma be an
exception. The order includes the chameleons, the Cionocrania, or
typical lizards, and the amphisbænas. See Amphisbæna, Gecko, Gila
monster, and Lizard.

LACERTILIAN
Lac`er*til"i*an (-an), a. & n.

Defn: Same as Lacertian.

LACERTILOID
La*cer"ti*loid, a. Etym: [Lacertilia + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the Lacertilia.

LACERTINE
La*cer"tine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Lacertian.

LACERTUS
La*cer"tus, n.; pl. Lacerti (-ti). Etym: [L., the upper arm.] (Anat.)

Defn: A bundle or fascicle of muscular fibers.

LACEWING
Lace"wing`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of neuropterous insects of the genus
Chrysopa and allied genera. They have delicate, lacelike wings and
brilliant eyes. Their larvæ are useful in destroying aphids. Called
also lace-winged fly, and goldeneyed fly.

LACE-WINGED
Lace"-winged`, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having thin, transparent, reticulated wings; as, the lace-
winged flies.

LACHES; LACHE
Lach"es, Lache, n. Etym: [OF. lachesse, fr. lache lax, indolent, F.
lâche, ultimately fr. L. laxus loose, lax. See Lax.] (Law)

Defn: Neglect; negligence; remissness; neglect to do a thing at the
proper time; delay to assert a claim.
It ill became him to take advantage of such a laches with the
eagerness of a shrewd attorney. Macaulay.

LACHRYMABLE
Lach"ry*ma*ble, a. Etym: [L. lacrimabilis, fr. lacrima a tear.]

Defn: Lamentable. Martin Parker.

LACHRYMAE CHRISTI
Lach"ry*mæ Chris"ti. Etym: [L., lit., Christ's tears.]

Defn: A rich, sweet, red Neapolitan wine.

LACHRYMAL
Lach"ry*mal (, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lacrymal. See Lachrymose.]

1. Of or pertaining to tears; as, lachrymal effusions.

2. (Anat.)
(a) Pertaining to, or secreting, tears; as, the lachrymal gland.
(b) Pertaining to the lachrymal organs; as, lachrymal bone; lachrymal
duct.

LACHRYMAL
Lach"ry*mal, n.

Defn: See Lachrymatory.

LACHRYMALS
Lach"ry*mals, n. pl. [See Lachrymal.]

Defn: Tears; also, lachrymal feelings or organs. [Colloq.]

People go to the theaters to have . . . their risibles and lachrymals
set agoing.
The Lutheran.

LACHRYMARY
Lach"ry*ma*ry, a.

Defn: Containing, or intended to contain, tears; lachrymal. Addison.

LACHRYMATE
Lach"ry*mate (-mat), v. i.

Defn: To weep. [R.] Blount.

LACHRYMATION
Lach`ry*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. lacrimatio, from lacrimare to shed
tears, fr. lacrima tear.]

Defn: The act of shedding tears; weeping.

LACHRYMATORY
Lach"ry*ma*to*ry, n.; pl. -ries. Etym: [Cf. F. lacrymatoire.]
(Antiq.)

Defn: A "tear-bottle;" a narrow-necked vessel found in sepulchers of
the ancient Romans; -- so called from a former notion that the tears
of the deceased person's friends were collected in it. Called also
lachrymal or lacrymal.

LACHRYMIFORM
Lach"ry*mi*form, a, Etym: [L.lacrima tear + -form; cf. F.
lacrymiforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a tear; tear-shaped.

LACHRYMOSE
Lach"ry*mose`, a. Etym: [L. lacrymosus, better lacrimosus, fr.
lacrima, lacruma (also badly spelt lachryma) a tear, for older
dacrima, akin to E. tear. See Tear the secretion.]

Defn: Generating or shedding tears; given to shedding tears; suffused
with tears; tearful.
You should have seen his lachrymose visnomy. Lamb.
-- Lach"ry*mose`ly, adv.

LACING
La"cing, n.

1. The act of securing, fastening, or tightening, with a lace or
laces.

2. A lace; specifically (Mach.), a thong of thin leather for uniting
the ends of belts.

3. A rope or line passing through eyelet holes in the edge of a sail
or an awning to attach it to a yard, gaff, etc.

4. (Bridge Building)

Defn: A system of bracing bars, not crossing each other in the
middle, connecting the channel bars of a compound strut. Waddell.

LACINIA
La*cin"i*a, n.; pl. L. Laciniæ. Etym: [L., the lappet or flap of a
garment.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) One of the narrow, jagged, irregular pieces or divisions which
form a sort of fringe on the borders of the petals of some flowers.
(b) A narrow, slender portion of the edge of a monophyllous calyx, or
of any irregularly incised leaf.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The posterior, inner process of the stipes on the maxillæ of
insects.

LACINIATE; LACINIATED
La*cin"i*ate, La*cin"i*a"ted, a. Etym: [See Lacinia.]

1. Fringed; having a fringed border.

2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Cut into deep, narrow, irregular lobes; slashed.

LACINIOLATE
La*cin"i*o*late, a. Etym: [See Lacinia.] (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of, or abounding in, very minute laciniæ.

LACINULA
La*cin"u*la, n.; pl. Lacinulæ, E. Lacinulas. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A diminutive lacinia.

LACK
Lack, n. Etym: [OE. lak; cf. D. lak slander, laken to blame, OHG.
lahan, AS. leán.]

1. Blame; cause of blame; fault; crime; offense. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Deficiency; want; need; destitution; failure; as, a lack of
sufficient food.
She swooneth now and now for lakke of blood. Chaucer.
Let his lack of years be no impediment. Shak.

LACK
Lack, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Lacking.]

1. To blame; to find fault with. [Obs.]
Love them and lakke them not. Piers Plowman.

2. To be without or destitute of; to want; to need.
If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. James i. 5.

LACK
Lack, v. i.

1. To be wanting; often, impersonally, with of, meaning, to be less
than, short, not quite, etc.
What hour now I think it lacks of twelve. Shak.
Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty. Gen. xvii. 28.

2. To be in want.
The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger. Ps. xxxiv. 10.

LACK
Lack, interj. Etym: [Cf. Alack.]

Defn: Exclamation of regret or surprise. [Prov. Eng.] Cowper.

LACKADAISICAL
Lack`a*dai"si*cal, a. Etym: [From Lackadaisy, interj.]

Defn: Affectedly pensive; languidly sentimental.
 -- Lack`a*dai"si*cal*ly, adv.

LACKADAISY
Lack"a*dai`sy, interj. Etym: [From Lackaday, interj.]

Defn: An expression of languor.

LACKADAISY
Lack"a*dai`sy, a.

Defn: Lackadaisical.

LACKADAY
Lack"a*day`, interj. Etym: [Abbreviated from alackaday.]

Defn: Alack the day; alas; -- an expression of sorrow, regret,
dissatisfaction, or surprise.

LACKBRAIN
Lack"brain`, n.

Defn: One who is deficient in understanding; a witless person. Shak.

LACKER
Lack"er, n.

Defn: One who lacks or is in want.

LACKER
Lack"er, n. & v.

Defn: See Lacquer.

LACKEY
Lack"ey, n.; pl. Lackeys. Etym: [F. laquais; cf. Sp. & Pg. lacayo; of
uncertain origin; perh. of German origin, and akin to E.lick, v.]

Defn: An attending male servant; a footman; a servile follower.
Like a Christian footboy or a gentleman's lackey. Shak.
Lackey caterpillar (Zoöl.), the caterpillar, or larva, of any
bombycid moth of the genus Clisiocampa; -- so called from its party-
colored markings. The common European species (C. neustria) is
striped with blue, yellow, and red, with a white line on the back.
The American species (C. Americana and C. sylvatica) are commonly
called tent caterpillars. See Tent caterpillar,under Tent.
 -- Lackey moth (Zoöl.), the moth which produces the lackey
caterpillar.

LACKEY
Lack"ey, v. t.

Defn: To attend as a lackey; to wait upon.
A thousand liveried angels lackey her. Milton.

LACKEY
Lack"ey, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lackeyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lackeying.]

Defn: To act or serve as lackey; to pay servile attendance.

LACKLUSTER; LACKLUSTRE
Lack"lus`ter, Lack"lus`tre, n.

Defn: A want of luster.
 -- a.

Defn: Wanting luster or brightness. "Lackluster eye." Shak.

LACMUS
Lac"mus, n.

Defn: See Litmus.

LACONIAN
La*co"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Laconia, a division of ancient Greece;
Spartan.
 -- n.

Defn: An inhabitant of Laconia; esp., a Spartan.

LACONIC; LACONICAL
La*con"ic, La*con"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Laconicus Laconian, Gr.
laconique.]

1. Expressing much in few words, after the manner of the Laconians or
Spartans; brief and pithy; brusque; epigrammatic. In this sense
laconic is the usual form.
I grow laconic even beyond laconicism; for sometimes I return only
yes, or no, to questionary or petitionary epistles of half a yard
long. Pope.
His sense was strong and his style laconic. Welwood.

2. Laconian; characteristic of, or like, the Spartans; hence, stern
or severe; cruel; unflinching.
His head had now felt the razor, his back the rod; all that laconical
discipline pleased him well. Bp. Hall.

Syn.
 -- Short; brief; concise; succinct; sententious; pointed; pithy.
 -- Laconic, Concise. Concise means without irrelevant or superfluous
matter; it is the opposite of diffuse. Laconic means concise with the
additional quality of pithiness, sometimes of brusqueness.

LACONIC
La*con"ic, n.

Defn: Laconism. [Obs.] Addison.

LACONICAL
La*con"ic*al, a.

Defn: See Laconic, a.

LACONICALLY
La*con"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a laconic manner.

LACONICISM
La*con"I*cism, n.

Defn: Same as Laconism. Pope.

LACONISM
Lac"o*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. laconisme.]

1. A vigorous, brief manner of expression; laconic style.

2. An instance of laconic style or expression.

LACONIZE
Lac"o*nize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Laconized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Laconizing.] Etym: [Gr. Laconic.]

Defn: To imitate the manner of the Laconians, especially in brief,
pithy speech, or in frugality and austerity.

LACQUER
Lac"quer, n. Etym: [F. lacre a sort of sealing wax, Pg. lacte, fr.
laca lac. See Lac the resin.] [Written also lacker.]

Defn: A varnish, consisting of a solution of shell-lac in alcohol,
often colored with gamboge, saffron, or the like; -- used for
varnishing metals, papier-maché, and wood. The name is also given to
varnishes made of other ingredients, esp. the tough, solid varnish of
the Japanese, with which ornamental objects are made.

LACQUER
Lac"quer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lacquered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lacquering.]

Defn: To cover with lacquer. "Lacquer'd chair." Pope.

LACQUERER
Lac"quer*er, n.

Defn: One who lacquers, especially one who makes a business of
lacquering.

LACQUERING
Lac"quer*ing, n.

Defn: The act or business of putting on lacquer; also, the coat of
lacquer put on.

LACRIMOSO
La`cri*mo"so, a. Etym: [It. See Lachrymose.] (Mus.)

Defn: Plaintive; -- a term applied to a mournful or pathetic movement
or style. Moore.

LACROSSE
La*crosse", n. Etym: [F. la crosse, lit., the crosier, hooked stick.
Cf. Crosier.]

Defn: A game of ball, originating among the North American Indians,
now the popular field sport of Canada, and played also in England and
the United States. Each player carries a long-handled racket, called
a "crosse". The ball is not handled but caught with the crosse and
carried on it, or tossed from it, the object being to carry it or
throw it through one of the goals placed at opposite ends of the
field.

LACRYMAL
Lac"ry*mal, n. & a.

Defn: See Lachrymatory, n., and Lachrymal, a.

LACRYMARY; LACRYTORY; LACRYMOSE
Lac"ry*ma*ry, Lac"ry*to*ry, Lac"ry*mose.

Defn: See Lachrymary, Lachrymatory, Lachrymose.

LACTAGE
Lac"tage, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk: cf. F. laitage. See
Lacteal.]

Defn: The produce of animals yielding milk; milk and that which is
made from it.

LACTAM
Lac"tam, n. Etym: [Lactone + amido.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of anhydrides of an amido type, analogous to
the lactones, as oxindol.

LACTAMIC
Lac*tam"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an amido acid related to lactic
acid, and called also amido-propionic acid.

LACTAMIDE
Lac*tam"ide, n. Etym: [Lactic + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An acid amide derived from lactic acid, and obtained as a white
crystalline substance having a neutral reaction. It is metameric with
alanine.

LACTANT
Lac"tant, a. Etym: [L. lactans, p. pr. of lactare to suck, fr. lac,
lactis, milk.]

Defn: Suckling; giving suck.

LACTARENE
Lac"ta*rene, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk.]

Defn: A preparation of casein from milk, used in printing calico.

LACTARY
Lac"ta*ry, a. Etym: [l. lactarius, fr. lac, lactis, milk: cf. F.
lactaire.]

Defn: Milky; full of white juice like milk. [Obs.] "Lactary or milky
plants." Sir T. Browne.

LACTARY
Lac"ta*ry, n.

Defn: a dairyhouse. [R.]

LACTATE
Lac"tate, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk: cf. F. lactate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of lactic acid.

LACTATION
Lac*ta"tion, n.

Defn: A giving suck; the secretion and yielding of milk by the
mammary gland.

LACTEAL
Lac"te*al, a. Etym: [L. lacteus milky, fr. lac, lactis, milk. Cf.
Galaxy, Lettuce.]

1. Pertaining to, or resembling, milk; milky; as, the lacteal fluid.

2. (Anat. & Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, chyle; as, the lacteal vessels.

LACTEAL
Lac"te*al, n. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the lymphatic vessels which convey chyle from the small
intestine through the mesenteric glands to the thoracic duct; a
chyliferous vessel.

LACTEALLY
Lac"te*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Milkily; in the manner of milk.

LACTEAN
Lac"te*an, a. Etym: [See Lacteal.]

1. Milky; consisting of, or resembling, milk. "This lactean
whiteness." Moxon.

2. (Anat. & Physiol.)

Defn: Lacteal; conveying chyle.

LACTEOUS
Lac"te*ous, a. Etym: [See Lacteal.]

1. Milky; resembling milk. "The lacteous circle." Sir T. Browne.

2. Lacteal; conveying chyle; as, lacteous vessels.

LACTEOUSLY
Lac"te*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lacteous manner; after the manner of milk.

LACTESCENCE
Lac*tes"cence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lactescence.]

1. The state or quality of producing milk, or milklike juice;
resemblance to milk; a milky color.
This lactescence does commonly ensue when . . . fair water is
suddenly poured upon the solution. Boyle.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The latex of certain plants. See Latex.

LACTESCENT
Lac*tes"cent, a. Etym: [L. lactescens, p. pr. of lactescere to turn
to milk, incho. fr. lactere to be milky, fr. lac, lactis, milk: cf.
F. lactescent.]

1. Having a milky look; becoming milky. [Obs.]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing milk or a milklike juice or fluid, as the milkweed.
See Latex.

LACTIC
Lac"tic, a. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk: cf. F. lactique. See
Lacteal, and cf. Galactic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to milk; procured from sour milk or whey; as,
lactic acid; lactic fermentation, etc. Lactic acid (Physiol. Chem.),
a sirupy, colorless fluid, soluble in water, with an intensely sour
taste and strong acid reaction. There are at least three isomeric
modifications all having the formula C3H6O3. Sarcolactic or
paralactic acid occurs chiefly in dead muscle tissue, while ordinary
lactic acid results from fermentation. The two acids are alike in
having the same constitution (expressed by the name ethylidene lactic
acid), but the latter is optically inactive, while sarcolactic acid
rotates the plane of polarization to the right. The third acid,
ethylene lactic acid, accompanies sarcolactic acid in the juice of
flesh, and is optically inactive.
 -- Lactic ferment, an organized ferment (Bacterium lacticum or
lactis), which produces lactic fermentation, decomposing the sugar of
milk into carbonic and lactic acids, the latter, of which renders the
milk sour, and precipitates the casein, thus giving rise to the so-
called spontaneous coagulation of milk.
 -- Lactic fermentation. See under Fermentation.

LACTIDE
Lac"tide, n. Etym: [Lactic + anhydride.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline substance, obtained from also, by
extension, any similar substance.

LACTIFEROUS
Lac*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [l. lac, lactis, milk + -ferous: cf. F.
lactifère.]

Defn: Bearing or containing milk or a milky fluid; as, the
lactiferous vessels, cells, or tissue of various vascular plants.

LACTIFIC; LACTIFICAL
Lac*tif"ic, Lac*tif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + facere to
make.]

Defn: Producing or yielding milk.

LACTIFUGE
Lac"ti*fuge, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + fugare to expel.]
(Med.)

Defn: A medicine to check the secretion of milk, or to dispel a
supposed accumulation of milk in any part of the body.

LACTIM
Lac"tim, n. Etym: [Lactic + imido.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of anhydrides resembling the lactams, but of an
imido type; as, isatine is a lactim. Cf. Lactam.

LACTIMIDE
Lac*tim"ide, n. Etym: [Lactic + imide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline substance obtained as an anhydride of
alanine, and regarded as an imido derivative of lactic acid.

LACTIN
Lac"tin, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk: cf. F. lactine. Cf.
Galactin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: See Lactose.

LACTOABUMIN
Lac`to*a*bu"min, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + E. albumin.]
(Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The albumin present on milk, apparently identical with ordinary
serum albumin. It is distinct from the casein of milk.

LACTOBUTYROMETER
Lac`to*bu`ty*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + E.
butyrometer.]

Defn: An instrument for determining the amount of butter fat
contained in a given sample of milk.

LACTODENSIMETER
Lac`to*den*sim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + E.
densimeter.]

Defn: A form of hydrometer, specially graduated, for finding the
density of milk, and thus discovering whether it has been mixed with
water or some of the cream has been removed.

LACTOMETER
Lac*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + meter: cf. F.
lactomètre. Cf. Galactometer.]

Defn: An instrument for estimating the purity or richness of milk, as
a measuring glass, a specific gravity bulb, or other apparatus.

LACTONE
Lac"tone, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of organic compounds, regarded as anhydrides of
certain hydroxy acids. In general, they are colorless liquids, having
a weak aromatic odor. They are so called because the typical lactone
is derived from lactic acid.

LACTONIC
Lac*ton"ic, a. Etym: [From Lactone.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, lactone.

LACTONIC
Lac*ton"ic, a. Etym: [From Lactose.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the
oxidation of milk sugar (lactose).

LACTOPROTEIN
Lac`to*pro"te*in, n. Etym: [L.lac, lactis,milk + E. protein.]
(Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar albuminous body considered a normal constituent of
milk.

LACTORY
Lac"to*ry, a.

Defn: Lactiferous. [Obs.] "Lactory or milky plants." Sir T. Browne.

LACTOSCOPE
Lac"to*scope, n. Etym: [L. lac, lactis + scope.]

Defn: An instrument for estimating the amount of cream contained in
milk by ascertaining its relative opacity.

LACTOSE
Lac"tose`, n.

1. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Sugar of milk or milk sugar; a crystalline sugar present in
milk, and separable from the whey by evaporation and crystallization.
It has a slightly sweet taste, is dextrorotary, and is much less
soluble in water than either cane sugar or glucose. Formerly called
lactin.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: See Galactose.

LACTUCA
Lac*tu"ca, n. Etym: [L., lettuce. See Lettuce.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of composite herbs, several of which are cultivated foe
salad; lettuce.

LACTUCARIUM
Lac`tu*ca"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lactuca lettuce.]

Defn: The inspissated juice of the common lettuce, sometimes used as
a substitute for opium.

LACTUCIC
Lac*tu"cic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the juice of the Lactuca
virosa; -- said of certain acids.

LACTUCIN
Lac*tu"cin, n. Etym: [From Lactuca: cf. F. lactucine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline substance, having a bitter taste and a
neutral reaction, and forming one of the essential ingredients of
lactucarium.

LACTUCONE
Lac*tu"cone, n. Etym: [From Lactuca.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, tasteless substance, found in the milky
sap of species of Lactuca, and constituting an essential ingredient
of lactucarium.

LACTURAMIC
Lac`tu*ram"ic (, a. Etym: [Lactic + urea + amic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an organic amido acid, which is
regarded as a derivative of lactic acid and urea.

LACTYL
Lac"tyl, n. Etym: [Lactic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: An organic residue or radical derived from lactic acid.

LACUNA
La*cu"na, n.; pl. L. Lacunæ; E. Lacunas. Etym: [L., ditch, pit, lake,
orig., anything hollow. See Lagoon.]

1. A small opening; a small pit or depression; a small blank space; a
gap or vacancy; a hiatus.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A small opening; a small depression or cavity; a space, as a
vacant space between the cells of plants, or one of the spaces left
among the tissues of the lower animals, which serve in place of
vessels for the circulation of the body fluids, or the cavity or sac,
usually of very small size, in a mucous membrane.

LACUNAL; LACUNAR
La*cu"nal, La*cu"nar, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or having, lacunæ; as, a lacunar circulation.

LACUNAR
La*cu"nar, n.; pl. E. Lacunars, L. Lacunaria. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)
(a) The ceiling or under surface of any part, especially when it
consists of compartments, sunk or hollowed without spaces or bands
between the panels. Gwilt
(b) One of the sunken panels in such a ceiling.

LACUNE
La*cune", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A lacuna. [R.] Landor.

LACUNOSE; LACUNOUS
Lac"u*nose`, La*cu"nous, a. Etym: [L. lacunosus full of holes or
hollows; cf. F. lacuneux. See Lacuna.] (Biol.)

Defn: Furrowed or pitted; having shallow cavities or lacunæ; as, a
lacunose leaf.

LACUSTRAL; LACUSTRINE
La*cus"tral, La*cus"trine, a. Etym: [L. lacus lake: cf. F. lacustral,
lacustre.]

Defn: Found in, or pertaining to, lakes or ponds, or growing in them;
as, lacustrine flowers. Lacustrine deposits (Geol.), the deposits
which have been accumulated in fresh-water areas.
 -- Lacustrine dwellings. See Lake dwellings, under Lake.

LACWORK
Lac"work`, n.

Defn: Ornamentation by means of lacquer painted or carved, or simply
colored, sprinkled with gold or the like; -- said especially of
Oriental work of this kind.

LAD
Lad, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Lead, to guide Chaucer.

LAD
Lad, n. Etym: [OE. ladde, of Celtic origin; cf. W. , Ir. lath. (. Cf.
Lass.]

1. A boy; a youth; a stripling. "Cupid is a knavish lad." Shak.
There is a lad here, which hath fire barley loaves and two small
fishes. John vi. 9.

2. A companion; a comrade; a mate. Lad's love. (Bot.) See Boy's love,
under Boy.

LADANUM
Lad"a*num, n. Etym: [L. ladanum, ledanum, Fr. (ladan, laden. Cf.
Laudanum.]

Defn: A gum resin gathered from certain Oriental species of Cistus.
It has a pungent odor and is chiefly used in making plasters, and for
fumigation. [Written also labdanum.]

LADDE
Lad"de, obs. imp.

Defn: of Lead, to guide. Chaucer.

LADDER
Lad"der, n. Etym: [OE. laddre, AS. hl, hl; akin to OFries. hladder,
OHG.leitara, G. leiter, and from the root of E. lean, v. (Lean, v.
i., and cf. Climax.]

1. A frame usually portable, of wood, metal, or rope, for ascent and
descent, consisting of two side pieces to which are fastened cross
strips or rounds forming steps.
Some the engines play, And some, more bold, mount ladders to the
fire. Dryden.

2. That which resembles a ladder in form or use; hence, that by means
of which one attains to eminence.
Lowliness is young ambition's ladder. Shak.
Fish ladder. See under Fish.
 -- Ladder beetle (Zoöl.), an American leaf beetle (Chrysomela
scalaris). The elytra are silvery white, striped and spotted with
green; the under wings are rose-colored. It feeds upon the linden
tree.
 -- Ladder handle, an iron rail at the side of a vertical fixed
ladder, to grasp with the hand in climbing.
 -- Ladder shell (Zoöl.), a spiral marine shell of the genus
Scalaria. See Scalaria.

LADDIE
Lad"die, n.

Defn: A lad; a male sweetheart. [Scot.]

LADE
Lade, v. t. [imp. Laded; p. p. Laded, Laded (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lading.] Etym: [AS. hladan to heap, load, draw (water); akin to D. &
G. laden to load, OHG. hladan, ladan, Icel. hla, Sw. ladda, Dan.
lade, Goth. afhlapan. Cf. Load, Ladle, Lathe for turning, Last a
load.]

1. To load; to put a burden or freight on or in; -- generally
followed by that which receives the load, as the direct object.
And they laded their asses with the corn. Gen. xlii. 26.

2. To throw in out. with a ladle or dipper; to dip; as, to lade water
out of a tub, or into a cistern.
And chides the sea that sunders him from thence, Saying, he'll lade
it dry to have his way. Shak.

3. (Plate Glass Manuf.)

Defn: To transfer (the molten glass) from the pot to the forming
table.

LADE
Lade, v. i. Etym: [See Lade, v. t.]

1. To draw water. [Obs.]

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To admit water by leakage, as a ship, etc.

LADE
Lade, n. Etym: [Prov. E., a ditch or drain. Cf. Lode, Lead to
conduct.]

1. The mouth of a river. [Obs.] Bp. Gibson.

2. A passage for water; a ditch or drain. [Prov. Eng.]

LADEMAN
Lade"man, n.

Defn: One who leads a pack horse; a miller's servant. [Obs. or Local]

LADEN
Lad"en, p. & a.

Defn: Loaded; freighted; burdened; as, a laden vessel; a laden heart.
Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity. Is. i. 4.
A ship laden with gold. Shak.

LADIED
La"died, a.

Defn: Ladylike; not rough; gentle. [Obs.] "Stroked with a ladied
land." Feltham.

LADIES' EARDROPS
La"dies' ear`drops`. (Bot.)

Defn: The small-flowered Fuchsia (F. coccinea), and other closely
related species.

LADIFY
La"di*fy, v. t. Etym: [Lady + -fy.]

Defn: To make a lady of; to make ladylike. [Obs.] Massinger.

LADIN
La*din", n. Etym: [From L. Latinus Latin. See Latin]

Defn: A Romansch dialect spoken in some parts of Switzerland and the
Tyrol.

LADING
Lad"ing, n.

1. The act of loading.

2. That which lades or constitutes a load or cargo; freight; burden;
as, the lading of a ship. Bill of lading. See under Bill.

LADINO
La*di"no, n.; pl. Ladinos. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: One of the half-breed descendants of whites and Indians; a
mestizo; -- so called throughout Central America. They are usually of
a yellowish orange tinge. Am. Cyc.

LADKIN
Lad"kin, n.

Defn: A little lad. [R.] Dr. H. More.

LADLE
La"dle, n. Etym: [AS.hlædel, fr. hladan to load, drain. See Lade, v.
t.]

1. A cuplike spoon, often of large size, with a long handle, used in
lading or dipping.
When the materials of glass have been kept long in fusion, the
mixture casts up the superfluous salt, which the workmen take off
with ladles. Boyle.

2. (Founding)

Defn: A vessel to carry liquid metal from the furnace to the mold.

3. The float of a mill wheel; -- called also ladle board.

4. (Gun.)
(a) An instrument for drawing the charge of a cannon.
(b) A ring, with a handle or handles fitted to it, for carrying shot.
Ladle wood (Bot.), the wood of a South African tree (Cassine
Colpoon), used for carving.

LADLE
La"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ladled; p. pr. & vb. n. Ladling.]

Defn: To take up and convey in a ladle; to dip with, or as with, a
ladle; as, to ladle out soup; to ladle oatmeal into a kettle.

LADLEFUL
La"dle*ful, n.; pl. Ladlefuls (.

Defn: A quantity sufficient to fill a ladle.

LADRONE
La*drone", n. Etym: [Sp. ladron, L. latro servant, robber, Gr. (

Defn: A robber; a pirate; hence, loosely, a rogue or rascal.

LADY
La"dy, n.; pl. Ladies. Etym: [OE. ladi, læfdi, AS. hl, hl; AS. hlaf
loaf + a root of uncertain origin, possibly akin to E. dairy. See
Loaf, and cf. Lord.]

1. A woman who looks after the domestic affairs of a family; a
mistress; the female head of a household.
Agar, the handmaiden of Sara, whence comest thou, and whither goest
thou The which answered, Fro the face of Sara my lady. Wyclif (Gen.
xvi. 8.).

2. A woman having proprietary rights or authority; mistress; -- a
feminine correlative of lord. "Lord or lady of high degree." Lowell.
Of all these bounds, even from this line to this, . . . We make thee
lady. Shak.

3. A woman to whom the particular homage of a knight was paid; a
woman to whom one is devoted or bound; a sweetheart.
The soldier here his wasted store supplies, And takes new valor from
his lady's eyes. Waller.

4. A woman of social distinction or position. In England, a title
prefixed to the name of any woman whose husband is not of lower rank
than a baron, or whose father was a nobleman not lower than an earl.
The wife of a baronet or knight has the title of Lady by courtesy,
but not by right.

5. A woman of refined or gentle manners; a well-bred woman; -- the
feminine correlative of gentleman.

6. A wife; -- not now in approved usage. Goldsmith.

7. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The triturating apparatus in the stomach of a lobster; -- so
called from a fancied resemblance to a seated female figure. It
consists of calcareous plates. Ladies' man, a man who affects the
society of ladies.
 -- Lady altar, an altar in a lady chapel. Shipley.
 -- Lady chapel, a chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary.
 -- Lady court, the court of a lady of the manor.
 -- Lady crab (Zoöl.), a handsomely spotted swimming crab
(Platyonichus ocellatus) very common on the sandy shores of the
Atlantic coast of the United States.
 -- Lady fern. (Bot.) See Female fern, under Female, and Illust. of
Fern.
 -- Lady in waiting, a lady of the queen's household, appointed to
wait upon or attend the queen.
 -- Lady Mass, a Mass said in honor of the Virgin Mary. Shipley. Lady
of the manor, a lady having jurisdiction of a manor; also, the wife
of a manor lord. Lady's maid, a maidservant who dresses and waits
upon a lady. Thackeray.
 -- Our Lady, the Virgin Mary.

LADY
La"dy, a.

Defn: Belonging or becoming to a lady; ladylike. "Some lady trifles."
Shak.

LADYBIRD
La"dy*bird`, n. Etym: [Equiv. to, bird of Our Lady.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small beetles of the genus
Coccinella and allied genera (family Coccinellidæ); -- called also
ladybug, ladyclock, lady cow, lady fly, and lady beetle. Coccinella
seplempunctata in one of the common European species. See Coccinella.

Note: The ladybirds are usually more or less hemispherical in form,
with a smooth, polished surface, and often colored red, brown, or
black, with small spots of brighter colors. Both the larvæ and the
adult beetles of most species feed on aphids, and for this reason
they are very beneficial to agriculture and horticulture.

LADYBUG
La"dy*bug`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Ladybird.

LADYCLOCK
La"dy*clock`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Ladyrird.

LADY DAY
La"dy` day

Defn: The day of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25. See
Annunciation.

LADY DAY
La"dy` Day` (da).

Defn: The day of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25. See
Annunciation.

LADYFISH
La"dy*fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) A large, handsome oceanic fish (Albula vulpes), found both in the
Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called also bonefish, grubber, French
mullet, and macabé.
(b) A labroid fish (Harpe rufa) of Florida and the West Indies.

LADYHOOD
La"dy*hood, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being a lady; the personality of a
lady.

LADY-KILLER
La"dy-kill`er, n.

Defn: A gallant who captivates the hearts of women. "A renowned dandy
and lady-killer." Blackw. Mag.

LADY-KILLING
La"dy-kill`ing, n.

Defn: The art or practice of captivating the hearts of women.
Better for the sake of womankind that this dangerous dog should leave
off lady-killing. Thackeray.

LADYKIN
La"dy*kin, n. Etym: [Lady + -kin.]

Defn: A little lady; -- applied by the writers of Queen Elizabeth's
time, in the abbreviated form Lakin, to the Virgin Mary.

Note: The diminutive does not refer to size, but is equivalent to
"dear." Brewer.

LADYLIKE
La"dy*like`, a.

1. Like a lady in appearance or manners; well-bred.
She was ladylike, too, after the manner of the feminine gentility of
those days. Hawthorne.

2. Becoming or suitable to a lady; as, ladylike manners. "With
fingers ladylike." Warner.

3. Delicate; tender; feeble; effeminate.
Too ladylike a long fatigue to bear. Dryden.

LADYLIKENESS
La"dy*like`ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being ladylike.

LADYLOVE
La"dy*love`, n.

Defn: A sweetheart or mistress.

LADY'S BEDSTRAW
La"dy's bed"straw`, (Bot.)

Defn: The common bedstraw (Galium verum); also, a slender-leaved East
Indian shrub (Pharnaceum Mollugo), with white flowers in umbels.

LADY'S BOWER
La"dy's bow"er. (Bot.)

Defn: A climbing plant with fragrant blossoms (Clematis vitalba).

Note: This term is sometimes applied to other plants of the same
genus.

LADY'S CLOTH
La"dy's cloth`

Defn: A kind of broadcloth of light weight, used for women's dresses,
cloaks, etc.

LADY'S COMB
La"dy's comb", (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Scandix Pecten-Veneris), its clusters
of long slender fruits remotely resembling a comb.

LADY'S CUSHION
La"dy's cush"ion, (Bot.)

Defn: An herb growing in dense tufts; the thrift (Armeria vulgaris).

LADY'S FINGER
La"dy's fin"ger,

1. pl. (Bot.)

Defn: The kidney vetch.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: A variety of small cake of about the dimensions of a finger.

3. A long, slender variety of the potato.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the branchiæ of the lobster.

LADY'S GARTERS
La"dy's gar"ters. (Bot.)

Defn: Ribbon grass.

LADY'S HAIR
La"dy's hair". (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Briza (B. media); a variety of quaking
grass.

LADYSHIP
La"dy*ship, n.

Defn: The rank or position of a lady; -- given as a title (preceded
by her or your.)
Your ladyship shall observe their gravity. B. Jonson.

LADY'S LACES
La"dy's la"ces. (Bot.)

Defn: A slender climbing plant; dodder.

LADY'S LOOKING-GLASS
La"dy's look"ing-glass`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Venus's looking-glass, under Venus.

LADY'S MANTLE
La"dy's man"tle. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of rosaceous herbs (Alchemilla), esp. the European A.
vulgaris, which has leaves with rounded and finely serrated lobes.

LADY'S SEAL
La"dy's seal".(Bot.)
(a) The European Solomon's seal (Polygonatum verticillatum).
(b) The black bryony (Tamus communis).

LADY'S SLIPPER
La"dy's slip"per. (Bot.)

Defn: Any orchidaceous plant of the genus Cypripedium, the labellum
of which resembles a slipper. Less commonly, in the United States,
the garden balsam (Impatiens Balsamina).

LADY'S SMOCK
La"dy's smock". (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Cardamine (C. pratensis); cuckoo flower.

LADY'S THIMBLE
La"dy's thim"ble. (Bot.)

Defn: The harebell.

LADY'S THUMB
La"dy's thumb". (Bot.)

Defn: An annual weed (Polygonum Persicaria), having a lanceolate leaf
with a dark spot in the middle.

LADY'S TRACES; LADIES' TRESSES; LADIES TRESSES
La"dy's tra"ces, La"dies' tress"es. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several species of the orchidaceous genus
Spiranthes, in which the white flowers are set in spirals about a
slender axis and remotely resemble braided hair.

LAELAPS
Læ"laps, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ( (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of huge, carnivorous, dinosaurian reptiles from the
Cretaceous formation of the United States. They had very large hind
legs and tail, and are supposed to have been bipedal. Some of the
species were about eighteen feet high.

LAEMMERGEYER
Laem"mer*gey`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lammergeir.

LAEMODIPOD
Læ*mod"i*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Læmodipoda.

LAEMODIPODA
Læ`mo*dip"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of amphipod Crustacea, in which the abdomen is small
or rudimentary and the legs are often reduced to five pairs. The
whale louse, or Cyamus, and Caprella are examples.

LAEMODIPODOUS
Læ`mo*dip"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Læmodipoda.

LAETERE SUNDAY
Læ*te"re Sun"day

Defn: . The fourth Sunday of Lent; -- so named from the Latin word
Lætare (rejoice), the first word in the antiphone of the introit sung
that day in the Roman Catholic service.

LAEVIGATE
Læv"i*gate, a. Etym: [See Levigate.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having a smooth surface, as if polished.

LAEVO-
Læ"vo-

Defn: . A prefix. See Levo.

LAEVOROTATORY
Læ"vo*ro"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Same as Levorotatory. Cf. Dextrorotatory.

LAEVULOSE
Læv"u*lose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Levulose.

LAFAYETTE
La`fa`yette", n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The dollar fish.
(b) A market fish, the goody, or spot (Liostomus xanthurus), of the
southern coast of the United States.

LAFT
Laft, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Leave. Chaucer.

LAFTE
Laf"te, obs. imp.

Defn: of Leave. Chaucer.

LAG
Lag, a. Etym: [Of Celtic origin: cf. Gael. & Ir. lagweak, feeble,
faint, W. llag, llac, slack, loose, remiss, sluggish; prob. akin to
E. lax, languid.]

1. Coming tardily after or behind; slow; tardy. [Obs.]
Came too lag to see him buried. Shak.

2. Last; long-delayed; -- obsolete, except in the phrase lag end.
"The lag end of my life." Shak.

3. Last made; hence, made of refuse; inferior. [Obs.] "Lag souls."
Dryden.

LAG
Lag, n.

1. One who lags; that which comes in last. [Obs.] "The lag of all the
flock." Pope.

2. The fag-end; the rump; hence, the lowest class.
The common lag of people. Shak.

3. The amount of retardation of anything, as of a valve in a steam
engine, in opening or closing.

4. A stave of a cask, drum, etc.; especially (Mach.), one of the
narrow boards or staves forming the covering of a cylindrical object,
as a boiler, or the cylinder of a carding machine or a steam engine.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Graylag. Lag of the tide, the interval by which the time of
high water falls behind the mean time, in the first and third
quarters of the moon; -- opposed to priming of the tide, or the
acceleration of the time of high water, in the second and fourth
quarters; depending on the relative positions of the sun and moon.
 -- Lag screw, an iron bolt with a square head, a sharp-edged thread,
and a sharp point, adapted for screwing into wood; a screw for
fastening lags.

LAG
Lag, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Lagging.]

Defn: To walk or more slowly; to stay or fall behind; to linger or
loiter. "I shall not lag behind." Milton.

Syn.
 -- To loiter; linger; saunter; delay; be tardy.

LAG
Lag, v. t.

1. To cause to lag; to slacken. [Obs.] "To lag his flight." Heywood.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: To cover, as the cylinder of a steam engine, with lags. See
Lag, n., 4.

LAG
Lag, n.

Defn: One transported for a crime. [Slang, Eng.]

LAG
Lag, v. t.

Defn: To transport for crime. [Slang, Eng.]
She lags us if we poach. De Quincey.

LAGAN
La"gan, n. & v.

Defn: See Ligan.

LAGARTO
La*gar"to, n. Etym: [See Alligator.]

Defn: An alligator. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

LAGENA
La*ge"na, n.; pl. L. Lagenæ, E. Lagenas. Etym: [L., a flask; cf. Gr.
(Anat.)

Defn: The terminal part of the cochlea in birds and most reptiles; an
appendage of the sacculus, corresponding to the cochlea, in fishes
and amphibians.

LAGENIAN
La*ge"ni*an, a. Etym: [See Lagena.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, Lagena, a genus of Foraminifera having
a straight, chambered shell.

LAGENIFORM
La*ge"ni*form, a. Etym: [See Lagena, and -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a bottle or flask; flag-shaped.

LAGER
La"ger, n.

Defn: Lager beer.

LAGER BEER
La"ger beer`. Etym: [G. lager bed, storehouse + bier beer. See Lair,
and Beer.]

Defn: Originally a German beer, but now also made in immense
quantities in the United States; -- so called from its being laid up
or stored for some months before use.

LAGER WINE
La"ger wine`

Defn: . Wine which has been kept for some time in the cellar.
Simmonds.

LAGGARD
Lag"gard, a. Etym: [Lag + -ard.]

Defn: Slow; sluggish; backward.

LAGGARD
Lag"gard, n.

Defn: One who lags; a loiterer.

LAGGER
Lag"ger, n.

Defn: A laggard.

LAGGING
Lag"ging, n.

1. (Mach.)

Defn: The clothing (esp., an outer, wooden covering), as of a steam
cylinder, applied to prevent the radiation of heat; a covering of
lags; -- called also deading and cleading.

2. Lags, collectively; narrow planks extending from one rib to
another in the centering of arches.

LAGGINGLY
Lag"ging*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lagging manner; loiteringly.

LAGLY
Lag"ly, adv.

Defn: Laggingly. [Prov. Eng.]

LAGNIAPPE; LAGNAPPE
La*gniappe, La*gnappe", n. [Etym. uncertain.]

Defn: In Louisiana, a trifling present given to customers by
tradesmen; a gratuity.

Lagniappe . . .is something thrown in, gratis, for good measure.
Mark Twain.

LAGOMORPH
Lag"o*morph, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Lagomorpha.

LAGOMORPHA
Lag`o*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of rodents, including the hares. They have four
incisors in the upper jaw. Called also Duplicidentata.

LAGOON
La*goon", n. Etym: [It. or Sp. laguna, L. lacuna ditch, pool,
pond,lacus lake. See Lake, and cf. Lacuna.] [Written also lagune.]

1. A shallow sound, channel, pond, or lake, especially one into which
the sea flows; as, the lagoons of Venice.

2. A lake in a coral island, often occupying a large portion of its
area, and usually communicating with the sea. See Atoll. Lagoon
island, a coral island consisting of a narrow reef encircling a
lagoon.

LAGOPHTHALMIA; LAGOPHTHALMOS
Lag`oph*thal"mi*a, Lag`oph*thal"mos, n. Etym: [NL. lagophtalmia, fr.
Gr. lagw`s hare + 'ofqalmo`s eye; -- so called from the notion that a
hare sleeps with his eyes open.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition in which the eye stands wide open, giving a
peculiar staring appearance.

LAGOPOUS
La*go"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a dense covering of long hair, like the foot of a hare.

LAGTHING
Lag"thing, n. [Norw. lagting, lagthing; lag company, society (akin to
E. law, lay) + ting, thing, parliament. See Thing.]

Defn: See Legislatature, below.

LAGUNE
La*gune", n.

Defn: See Lagoon.

LAIC; LAICAL
La"ic, La"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. laicus: cf. F. laïque. See Lay laic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a layman or the laity. "Laical literature."
Lowell.
An unprincipled, unedified, and laic rabble. Milton.

LAIC
La"ic, n.

Defn: A layman. Bp. Morton.

LAICALITY
La"ic*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being laic; the state or condition of a
layman.

LAICALLY
La"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: As a layman; after the manner of a layman; as, to treat a
matter laically.

LAID
Laid, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Lay. Laid paper, paper marked with parallel lines or water
marks, as if ribbed, from parallel wires in the mold. It is called
blue laid, cream laid, etc., according to its color.

LAIDLY
Laid"ly, a.

Defn: Ugly; loathsome. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
This laidly and loathsome worm. W. Howitt.

LAIN
Lain, p. p.

Defn: of Lie, v. i.

LAINERE
Lain"ere, n.

Defn: See Lanier. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAIR
Lair, n. Etym: [OE. leir, AS. leger; akin to D. leger, G. lager
couch, lair, OHG. laga, Goth. ligrs, and to E. lie. See Lie to be
prostrate, and cf. Layer, Leaguer.]

1. A place in which to lie or rest; especially, the bed or couch of a
wild beast.

2. A burying place. [Scot.] Jamieson.

3. A pasture; sometimes, food. [Obs.] Spenser.

LAIRD
Laird, n. Etym: [See Lord.]

Defn: A lord; a landholder, esp. one who holds land directly of the
crown. [Scot.]

LAIRDSHIP
Laird"ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a laird; an estate; landed property. [Scot.]
Ramsay.

LAISM
La"ism, n.

Defn: See Lamaism. [R.]

LAISSEZ FAIRE
Lais`sez" faire". Etym: [F., let alone.]

Defn: Noninterference; -- an axiom of some political economists,
deprecating interference of government by attempts to foster or
regulate commerce, manufactures, etc., by bounty or by restriction;
as, the doctrine of laissez faire; the laissez faire system
government.

LAITY
La"i*ty, n. Etym: [See Lay, a.]

1. The people, as distinguished from the clergy; the body of the
people not in orders.
A rising up of the laity against the sacerdotal caste. Macaulay.

2. The state of a layman. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

3. Those who are not of a certain profession, as law or medicine, in
distinction from those belonging to it.

LAKAO
La*ka"o, n.

Defn: Sap green. [China]

LAKE
Lake, n. Etym: [F. laque, fr. Per. See Lac.]

Defn: A pigment formed by combining some coloring matter, usually by
precipitation, with a metallic oxide or earth, esp. with aluminium
hydrate; as, madder lake; Florentine lake; yellow lake, etc.

LAKE
Lake, n. Etym: [Cf. G. laken.]

Defn: A kind of fine white linen, formerly in use. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAKE
Lake, v. i. Etym: [AS. lacan, læcan, to spring, jump, lac play,
sport, or fr. Icel. leika to play, sport; both akin to Goth. laikan
to dance. sq. root120. Cf. Knowledge.]

Defn: To play; to sport. [Prov. Eng.]

LAKE
Lake, n. Etym: [AS. lac, L. lacus; akin to AS. lagu lake, sea, Icel.
lögr; OIr. loch; cf. Gr. Loch, Lough.]

Defn: A large body of water contained in a depression of the earth's
surface, and supplied from the drainage of a more or less extended
area.

Note: Lakes are for the most part of fresh water; the salt lakes,
like the Great Salt Lake of Utah, have usually no outlet to the
ocean. Lake dwellers (Ethnol.), people of a prehistoric race, or
races, which inhabited different parts of Europe. Their dwellings
were built on piles in lakes, a short distance from the shore. Their
relics are common in the lakes of Switzerland.
 -- Lake dwellings (Archæol.), dwellings built over a lake, sometimes
on piles, and sometimes on rude foundations kept in place by piles;
specifically, such dwellings of prehistoric times. Lake dwellings are
still used by many savage tribes. Called also lacustrine dwellings.
See Crannog.
 -- Lake fly (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of dipterous flies
of the genus Chironomus. In form they resemble mosquitoes, but they
do not bite. The larvæ live in lakes.
 -- Lake herring (Zoöl.), the cisco (Coregonus Artedii).
 -- Lake poets, Lake school, a collective name originally applied in
contempt, but now in honor, to Southey, Coleridge, and Wordsworth,
who lived in the lake country of Cumberland, England, Lamb and a few
others were classed with these by hostile critics. Called also lakers
and lakists.
 -- Lake sturgeon (Zoöl.), a sturgeon (Acipenser rubicundus), of
moderate size, found in the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River. It
is used as food.
 -- Lake trout (Zoöl.), any one of several species of trout and
salmon; in Europe, esp. Salmo fario; in the United States, esp.
Salvelinus namaycush of the Great Lakes, and of various lakes in New
York, Eastern Maine, and Canada. A large variety of brook trout (S.
fontinalis), inhabiting many lakes in New England, is also called
lake trout. See Namaycush.
 -- Lake whitefish. (Zoöl.) See Whitefish.
 -- Lake whiting (Zoöl.), an American whitefish (Coregonus
Labradoricus), found in many lakes in the Northern United States and
Canada. It is more slender than the common whitefish.

LAKE-DWELLER
Lake"-dwell`er, n.

Defn: See Lake dwellers, under Lake.

LAKELET
Lake"let, n.

Defn: A little lake. Southey.

LAKER
Lak"er, n. One that is connected with a lake or lakes, as in
habitation, toil, etc.:
 (a) One of the poets of the Lake school. See Lake poets, under Lake,
n.
 (b) (Zoöl.) A fish living in, or taken from, a lake, esp. the
namaycush.
 (c) A lake steamer or canal boat.

The bridge tender . . . thought the Cowies "a little mite" longer
than that laker.
The Century.

LAKEWEED
Lake"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The water pepper (Polygonum Hydropiper), an aquatic plant of
Europe and North America.

LAKH
Lakh, n.

Defn: Same as Lac, one hundred thousand.

LAKIN
La"kin, n.

Defn: See Ladykin.

LAKKE
Lak"ke, n. & v.

Defn: See Lack. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAKY
Lak"y, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a lake. Sir W. Scott.

LAKY
Lak"y, a. Etym: [From Lake the pigment.]

Defn: Transparent; -- said of blood rendered transparent by the
action of some solvent agent on the red blood corpuscles.

LALLATION
Lal*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. lallare to sing lalla, or lullaby: cf. F.
lallation.]

Defn: An imperfect enunciation of the letter r, in which it sounds
like l.

LALO
La"lo, n.

Defn: The powdered leaves of the baobab tree, used by the Africans to
mix in their soup, as the southern negroes use powdered sassafras.
Cf. Couscous.

LAM
Lam, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lammed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lamming.] Etym:
[Icel. lemja to beat, or lama to bruise, both fr. lami, lama, lame.
See Lame.]

Defn: To beat soundly; to thrash. [Obs. or Low] Beau. & Fl.

LAMA
La"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Llama.

LAMA
La"ma, n. Etym: [Thibet. blama (pronounced lä''ma) a chief, a high
priest.]

Defn: In Thibet, Mongolia, etc., a priest or monk of the belief
called Lamaism. The Grand Lama, or Dalai Lama Etym: [lit., Ocean
Lama], the supreme pontiff in the lamaistic hierarchy. See Lamaism.

LAMAIC
La"ma*ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lamaism.

LAMAISM
La"ma*ism, n.

Defn: A modified form of Buddhism which prevails in Thibet, Mongolia,
and some adjacent parts of Asia; -- so called from the name of its
priests. See 2d Lama.

LAMAIST; LAMAITE
La"ma*ist, La"ma*ite n.

Defn: One who believes in Lamaism.

LAMAISTIC
La`ma*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lamaism.

LAMANTIN
La*man"tin, n. Etym: [F. lamantin, lamentin, prob. from the name of
the animal in the Antilles. Cf. Manater.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The manatee. [Written also lamentin, and lamantine.]

LAMARCKIAN
La*marck"i*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or involved in, the doctrines of Lamarckianism.

LAMARCKIANISM
La*marck"i*an*ism, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Lamarckism.

LAMARCKISM
La"marck"ism, n. Etym: [From Lamarck, a distinguished French
naturalist.] (Biol.)

Defn: The theory that structural variations, characteristic of
species and genera, are produced in animals and plants by the direct
influence of physical environments, and esp., in the case of animals,
by effort, or by use or disuse of certain organs.

LAMASERY
La"ma*ser*y, n. Etym: [See 2d Lama.]

Defn: A mo

LAMB
Lamb, n. Etym: [AS. lamb; akin to D. & Dan. lam, G. & Sw. lamm, OS.,
Goth., & Icel. lamb.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The young of the sheep.

2. Any person who is as innocent or gentle as a lamb.

3. A simple, unsophisticated person; in the cant of the Stock
Exchange, one who ignorantly speculates and is victimized. Lamb of
God, The Lamb (Script.), the Jesus Christ, in allusion to the paschal
lamb.
The twelve apostles of the Lamb. Rev. xxi. 14.
Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. John
i. 29.
-- Lamb's lettuce (Bot.), an annual plant with small obovate leaves
(Valerianella olitoria), often used as a salad; corn salad. [Written
also lamb lettuce.] -- Lamb's tongue, a carpenter's plane with a deep
narrow bit, for making curved grooves. Knight.
 -- Lamb's wool. (a) The wool of a lamb. (b) Ale mixed with the pulp
of roasted apples; -- probably from the resemblance of the pulp of
roasted apples to lamb's wool. [Obs.] Goldsmith.

LAMB
Lamb, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lambed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lambing.]

Defn: To bring forth a lamb or lambs, as sheep.

LAMBALE
Lamb"ale`, n.

Defn: A feast at the time of shearing lambs.

LAMBASTE
Lam*baste", v. t. Etym: [Lam + baste to beat.]

Defn: To beat severely. [Low] Nares.

LAMBATIVE
Lam"ba*tive, a. Etym: [L. lambere to lick. See Lambent.]

Defn: Taken by licking with the tongue. "Sirups and lambative
medicines." Sir T. Browne.

LAMBATIVE
Lam"ba*tive, n.

Defn: A medicine taken by licking with the tongue; a lincture.
Wiseman.

LAMBDA
Lamb"da, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. The name of the Greek letter

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures of
the skull. Lambda moth (Zoöl.), a moth so called from a mark on its
wings, resembling the Greek letter lambda (

LAMBDACISM
Lamb"da*cism, n. Etym: [L. lambdacismus, Gr. la`mbda the letter
lambda (

1. A fault in speaking or in composition, which consists in too
frequent use of the letter l, or in doubling it erroneously.

2. A defect in pronunciation of the letter l when doubled, which
consists in giving it a sound as if followed by y, similar to that of
the letters lli in billion.

3. The use of the sound of l for that of r in pronunciation;
lallation; as, Amelican for American.

LAMBDOID
Lamb"doid, a. Etym: [Gr. la`mbda the letter lambda (e"i^dos shape.]

Defn: Shaped like the Greek letter lambda (as, the lambdoid suture
between the occipital and parietal bones of the skull.

LAMBDOIDAL
Lamb*doid"al, a.

Defn: Same as Lambdoid.

LAMBENT
Lam"bent, a. Etym: [L. lambens, -enlis, p. pr. of lambere to lick;
akin to lap. See Lap to drink by licking.]

1. Playing on the surface; touching lightly; gliding over. "A lambent
flame." Dryden. "A lambent style." Beaconsfield.

2. Twinkling or gleaming; fickering. "The lambent purity of the
stars." W. Irving.

LAMBERT PINE
Lam"bert pine`. Etym: [So called from Lambert, an English botanist.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The gigantic sugar pine of California and Oregon (Pinus
Lambertiana). It has the leaves in fives, and cones a foot long. The
timber is soft, and like that of the white pine of the Eastern
States.

LAMBKILL
Lamb"kill`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small American ericaceous shrub (Kalmia angustifolia); --
called also calfkill, sheepkill, sheep laurel, etc. It is supposed to
poison sheep and other animals that eat it at times when the snow is
deep and they cannot find other food.

LAMBKIN
Lamb"kin, n.

Defn: A small lamb.

LAMBLIKE
Lamb"like, a.

Defn: Like a lamb; gentle; meek; inoffensive.

LAMBOYS
Lam"boys, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. F. lambeau. Cf. Label.] (Anc. Armor)

Defn: Same as Base, n., 19.

LAMBREQUIN
Lam"bre*quin, n. Etym: [F. Cf. Lamboys, Label.]

1. A kind of pendent scarf or covering attached to the helmet, to
protect it from wet or heat.

2. A leather flap hanging from a cuirass. Wilhelm.

3. A piece of ornament drapery or short decorative hanging, pendent
from a shelf or from the casing above a window, hiding the curtain
fixtures, or the like.

LAMBSKIN
Lamb"skin`, n.

1. The skin of a lamb; especially, a skin dressed with the wool on,
and used as a mat. Also used adjectively.

2. A kind of woolen.

LAMBSKINNET
Lamb"skin`net", n.

Defn: See Lansquenet.

LAMB'S-QUARTERS
Lamb's-quar"ters, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several plants of the Goosefoot family,
sometimes used as pot herbs, as Chenopodium album and Atriplex
patulsa.

LAMDOIDAL
Lam*doid"al, a.

Defn: Lambdoid. [R.]

LAME
Lame, a. [Compar. Lamer; superl. Lamest.] Etym: [OE. lame, AS. lama;
akin to D. lam, G. lahm,OHG., Dan., & Sw. lam, Icel. lami, Russ.
lomate to break, lomota rheumatism.]

1.
(a) Moving with pain or difficulty on account of injury, defect, or
temporary obstruction of a function; as, a lame leg, arm, or muscle.
(b) To some degree disabled by reason of the imperfect action of a
limb; crippled; as, a lame man. "Lame of one leg." Arbuthnot. "Lame
in both his feet." 2 Sam. ix. 13. "He fell, and became lame." 2 Sam.
iv. 4.

2. Hence, hobbling; limping; inefficient; imperfect. "A lame
endeavor." Barrow.
O, most lame and impotent conclusion! Shak.
Lame duck (stock Exchange), a person who can not fulfill his
contracts. [Cant]

LAME
Lame, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Laming.]

Defn: To make lame.
If you happen to let child fall and lame it. Swift.

LAMEL
Lam"el, n.

Defn: See Lamella.

LAMELLA
La*mel"la, n.; pl. L. Lamellæ, E. Lamellas. Etym: [L. lamella, dim.
of lamina plate, leaf, layer: cf. F. lamelle. Cf. Lamina, Omelet.]

Defn: a thin plate or scale of anything, as a thin scale growing from
the petals of certain flowers; or one of the thin plates or scales of
which certain shells are composed.

LAMELLAR; LAMELLARLY
Lam"el*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lamellaire.]

Defn: Flat and thin; lamelliform; composed of lamellæ.
 -- Lam"el*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In thin plates or scales.

LAMELLARY
Lam"el*la*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to lamella or to lamellæ; lamellar.

LAMELLATE; LAMELLATED
Lam"el*late, Lam"el*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Lamella.]

Defn: Composed of, or furnished with, thin plates or scales. See
Illust. of Antennæ.

LAMELLIBRANCH
La*mel"li*branch, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Lamellibranchia. Also used adjectively.

LAMELLIBRANCHIA; LAMELLIBRANCHIATA
La*mel`li*bran"chi*a, La*mel`li*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See
lamella, and Branchia, Branchiate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of Mollusca including all those that have bivalve
shells, as the clams, oysters, mussels, etc.

Note: They usually have two (rarely but one) flat, lamelliform gills
on each side of the body. They have an imperfectly developed head,
concealed within the shell, whence they are called Acephala. Called
also Conchifera, and Pelecypoda. See Bivalve.

LAMELLIBRANCHIATE
Lam`el*li*bran"chi*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having lamellar gills; belonging to the Lamellibranchia.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Lamellibranchia.

LAMELLICORN
La*mel"li*corn, a. Etym: [Lamella + L. cornu a horn: cf. F.
lamellicorne. See Lamella.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Having antennæ terminating in a group of flat lamellæ; -- said of
certain coleopterous insects.
(b) Terminating in a group of flat lamellæ; -- said of antennæ.
 -- n.

Defn: A lamellicorn insect.

LAMELLICORNIA
La*mel`li*cor"ni*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Lamellicorn.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of lamellicorn, plant-eating beetles; -- called also
Lamellicornes.

LAMELLIFEROUS
Lam`el*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Lamella + -ferous: cf. F. lamellifère.]

Defn: Bearing, or composed of, lamellæ, or thin layers, plates, or
scales; foliated.

LAMELLIFORM
La*mel"li*form, a. Etym: [Lamella + -form : cf. F. lamelliforme.]

Defn: Thin and flat; scalelike; lamellar.

LAMELLIROSTRAL
Lam`el*li*ros"tral, a. Etym: [Lamella + rostral : cf. F.
lamellirostre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a lamellate bill, as ducks and geese.

LAMELLIROSTRES
La*mel`li*ros"tres, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Lamella, and Rostrum.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of birds embracing the Anseres and flamingoes, in which
the bill is lamellate.

LAMELLOSE
Lam"el*lose`, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lamelleux.]

Defn: Composed of, or having, lamellæ; lamelliform.

LAMELY
Lame"ly, adv. Etym: [See Lame.]

Defn: An a lame, crippled, disabled, or imperfect manner; as, to walk
lamely; a figure lamely drawn.

LAMENESS
Lame"ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being lame; as, the lameness of an
excuse or an argument.

LAMENT
La*ment", v. i. Etym: [F. lamenter, L. lamentari, fr. lamentum a
lament.]

Defn: To express or feel sorrow; to weep or wail; to mourn.
Jeremiah lamented for Josiah. 2 Chron. xxxv. 25.
Ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice. John xvi. 20.

LAMENT
La*ment", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lamented; p. pr. & vb. n. Lamenting.]

Defn: To mourn for; to bemoan; to bewail.
One laughed at follies, one lamented crimes. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To deplore; mourn; bewail. See Deplore.

LAMENT
La*ment", n. Etym: [L. lamentum. Cf. Lament, v.]

1. Grief or sorrow expressed in complaints or cries; lamentation; a
wailing; a moaning; a weeping.
Torment, and loud lament, and furious rage. Milton.

2. An elegy or mournful ballad, or the like.

LAMENTABLE
Lam"en*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. lamentabilis : cf. F. lamentable.]

1. Mourning; sorrowful; expressing grief; as, a lamentable
countenance. "Lamentable eye." Spenser.

2. Fitted to awaken lament; to be lamented; sorrowful; pitiable; as,
a lamentable misfortune, or error. "Lamentable helplessness." Burke.

3. Miserable; pitiful; paltry; -- in a contemptuous or Bp.
Stillingfleet.
 -- Lam"en*ta*ble*ness, n.
 -- Lam"en*ta*bly, adv.

LAMENTATION
Lam`en*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. lamentation, L. lamentatio.]

1. The act of bewailing; audible expression of sorrow; wailing;
moaning.
In Rama was there a voice heard, lamentation and weeping Matt. ii.
18.

2. pl. (Script.)

Defn: A book of the Old Testament attributed to the prophet Jeremiah,
and taking its name from the nature of its contents.