

LAMENTED
La*ment"ed, a.

Defn: Mourned for; bewailed.
This humble praise,lamented shade ! receive. Pope.

LAMENTER
La*ment"er (, n.

Defn: One who laments.

LAMENTIN
La*men"tin, n.

Defn: See Lamantin.

LAMENTING
La*ment"ing, n.

Defn: Lamentation.
Lamentings heard i' the air. Shak.

LAMENTINGLY
La*ment"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lamenting manner.

LAMES
Lames, n. pl. Etym: [F. lame a thin plate, L. lamina.] (Armor)

Defn: Small steel plates combined together so as to slide one upon
the form a piece of armor.

LAMETTA
La*met"ta, n. Etym: [Cf. It. lametta, dim of lama a thin plate.]

Defn: Foil or wire made of gold, silver, or brass. De Colange.

LAMIA
La"mi*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A monster capable of assuming a woman's form, who was said to
devour human beings or suck their blood; a vampire; a sorceress; a
with.

LAMINA
Lam"i*na, n.; pl. L. Lamella.

1. A thin plate or scale; a laying over another; -- said of thin
plates or platelike substances, as of bone or minerals.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The blade of a leaf; the broad, expanded portion of a petal or
sepal of a flower. Gray.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A thin plate or scale; specif., one of the thin, flat processes
composing the vane of a feather.

LAMINABILITY
Lam`i*na*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being laminable.

LAMINABLE
Lam"i*na*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being split into laminæ or thin plates, as mica;
capable of being extended under pressure into a thin plate or strip.
When a body can be readily extended in all directions under the
hammer, it is said to be malleable; and when into fillets under the
rolling press, it is said to be laminable. Ure.

LAMINAR; LAMINAL
Lam"i*nar, Lam"i*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. laminaire. See Lamina]

Defn: In, or consisting of, thin plates or layers; having the form of
a thin plate or lamina.

LAMINARIA
Lam`i*na"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Lamina.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of great seaweeds with long and broad fronds; kelp, or
devil's apron. The fronds commonly grow in clusters, and are
sometimes from thirty to fifty feet in length. See Illust. of Kelp.

LAMINARIAN
Lam`i*na"ri*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to seaweeds of the genus Laminaria, or to that zone
of the sea (from two to ten fathoms in depth) where the seaweeds of
this genus grow.

LAMINARITE
Lam"i*na*rite, n. Etym: [See Lamina.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A broad-leafed fossil alga.

LAMINARY
Lam"i*na*ry, a.

Defn: Laminar.

LAMINATE
Lam"i*nate, a. Etym: [See Lamina.]

Defn: Consisting of, or covered with, laminæ, or thin plates, scales,
or layers, one over another; laminated.

LAMINATE
Lam"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Laminated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Laminating.] Etym: [See Lamina.]

1. To cause to separate into thin plates or layers; to divide into
thin plates.

2. To form, as metal, into a thin plate, as by rolling.

LAMINATE
Lam"i*nate, v. i.

Defn: To separate into laminæ.

LAMINATED
Lam"i*na`ted, a.

Defn: Laminate. Laminated arch (Arch.), a timber arch made of layers
of bent planks secured by treenails.

LAMINATING
Lam"i*na`ting, a.

Defn: Forming, or separating into, scales or thin layers.

LAMINATION
Lam`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The process of laminating, or the state of being laminated.

LAMINIFEROUS
Lam`i*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Lamina + -ferous.]

Defn: Having a structure consisting of laminæ, or thin layers.

LAMINIPLANTAR
Lam`i*ni*plan"tar, a. Etym: [Lamina + L. planta sole of the foot.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the tarsus covered behind with a horny sheath continuous
on both sides, as in most singing birds, except the larks.

LAMINITIS
Lam`i*ni"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Lamina, and -itis.] (Far.)

Defn: Inflammation of the laminæ or fleshy plates along the coffin
bone of a horse; founder. Youatt.

LAMISH
Lam"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat lame. Wood.

LAMM
Lamm, v. t.

Defn: See Lam.

LAMMAS
Lam"mas, n. Etym: [AS. hlammesse, hlafmæsse, loaf mass, bread feast,
or feast of first fruits; hlaf loaf + mæsse mass. See Loaf, and Mass
religious service.]

Defn: The first day of August; -- called also Lammas day, and
Lammastide.

LAMMERGEIR; LAMMERGEIER
Lam"mer*geir, Lam"mer*gei`er, n. Etym: [G. lämmergeier; lamm, pl.
lämmer, lamb + geier vulture.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large vulture (Gypaëtus barbatus), which inhabits the
mountains of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa. When full-
grown it is nine or ten feet in extent of wings. It is brownish black
above, with the under parts and neck rusty yellow; the forehead and
crown white; the sides of the head and beard black. It feeds partly
on carrion and partly on small animals, which it kills. It has the
habit of carrying tortoises and marrow bones to a great height, and
dropping them on stones to obtain the contents, and is therefore
called bonebreaker and ossifrage. It is supposed to be the ossifrage
of the Bible. Called also bearded vulture and bearded eagle. [Written
also lammergeyer.]

LAMNUNGUIA
Lam*nun"gui*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lamina a scale + unguis a
nail.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Hyracoidea.

LAMP
Lamp, n.Etym: [OE. (with excrescent p), fr. F. lame, L. lamina. See
Lamina.]

Defn: A thin plate or lamina. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAMP
Lamp, n. Etym: [F. lampe, L. lampas, -adis, fr. Gr. Lampad, Lantern.]

1. A light-producing vessel, instrument or apparatus; especially, a
vessel with a wick used for the combustion of oil or other
inflammable liquid, for the purpose of producing artificial light.

2. Figuratively, anything which enlightens intellectually or morally;
anything regarded metaphorically a performing the uses of a lamp.
Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path. Ps. cxix.
105.
Ages elapsed ere Homer's lamp appeared. Cowper.

3. (Elec.)

Defn: A device or mechanism for producing light by electricity. See
Incandescent lamp, under Incandescent. Æolipile lamp, a hollow ball
of copper containing alcohol which is converted into vapor by a lamp
beneath, so as to make a powerful blowpipe flame when the vapor is
ignited. Weale.
 -- Arc lamp (Elec.), a form of lamp in which the voltaic arc is used
as the source of light.
 -- Dëbereiner's lamp, an apparatus for the instantaneous production
of a flame by the spontaneous ignition of a jet of hydrogen on being
led over platinum sponge; -- named after the German chemist
Döbereiner, who invented it. Called also philosopher's lamp.
 -- Flameless lamp, an aphlogistic lamp.
 -- Lamp burner, the part of a lamp where the wick is exposed and
ignited. Knight.
 -- Lamp fount, a reservoir for oil, in a lamp.
 -- Lamp jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4 (l) & (n).
 -- Lamp shade, a screen, as of paper, glass, or tin, for softening
or obstructing the light of a lamp.
 -- Lamp shell (Zoöl.), any brachiopod shell of the genus Terebratula
and allied genera. The name refers to the shape, which is like that
of an antique lamp. See Terebratula.
 -- Safety lamp, a miner's lamp in which the flame is surrounded by
fine wire gauze, preventing the kindling of dangerous explosive
gases; -- called also, from Sir Humphry Davy the inventor, Davy lamp.
 -- To smell of the lamp, to bear marks of great study and labor, as
a literary composition.

LAMPAD
Lam"pad, n. Etym: [Gr. Lamp.]

Defn: A lamp or candlestick. [R.]
By him who 'mid the golden lampads went. Trench.

LAMPADIST
Lam"pa*dist, n. Etym: [Gr. Lamp.] (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: One who gained the prize in the lampadrome.

LAMPADROME
Lam"pa*drome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A race run by young men with lighted torches in their hands. He
who reached the goal first, with his torch unextinguished, gained the
prize.

LAMPAS
Lam"pas, n. Etym: [F. lampas.]

Defn: An inflammation and swelling of the soft parts of the roof of
the mouth immediately behind the fore teeth in the horse; -- called
also lampers.

LAMPATE
Lam"pate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lampate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed salt of lampic acid. [Obs.]

LAMPBLACK
Lamp"black`, n. Etym: [Lamp + black.]

Defn: The fine impalpable soot obtained from the smoke of
carbonaceous substances which have been only partly burnt, as in the
flame of a smoking lamp. It consists of finely divided carbon, with
sometimes a very small proportion of various impurities. It is used
as an ingredient of printers' ink, and various black pigments and
cements.

LAMPER EEL
Lam"per eel`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lamprey.

LAMPERN
Lam"pern, n. Etym: [See Lamprey.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The river lamprey (Ammocoetes, or Lampetra, fluviatilis).

Note: The name is also applied to other river lampreys.

LAMPERS
Lam"pers, n.

Defn: See Lampas.

LAMPIC
Lam"pic, a. Etym: [F. lampique, fr. lampe lamp. See Lamp.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or produced by, a lamp; -- formerly said of a
supposed acid.

LAMPING
Lamp"ing, a.

Defn: Shining; brilliant. [Obs.] "Lamping eyes." Spenser.

LAMPLESS
Lamp"less, a.

Defn: Being without a lamp, or without light; hence, being without
appreciation; dull.
Your ladies' eyes are lampless to that virtue. Beau. & Fl.

LAMPLIGHT
Lamp"light`, n.

Defn: Light from a lamp.
This world's artificial lamplights. Owen Meredith.

LAMPLIGHTER
Lamp"light`er, n.

1. One who, or that which, lights a lamp; esp., a person who lights
street lamps.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The calico bass.

LAMPOON
Lam*poon", n. Etym: [F. lampon a drinking song, fr. lampons let us
drink, -- the burden of such a song, fr. lamper to guzzle, to drink
much and greedily; of German origin, and akin to E. lap to drink.
Prob. so called because drinking songs often contain personal slander
or satire.]

Defn: A personal satire in writing; usually, malicious and abusive
censure written only to reproach and distress.
Like her who missed her name in a lampoon, And grieved to find
herself decayed so soon. Dryden.

LAMPOON
Lam*poon", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lampooned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lampooning.]

Defn: To subject to abusive ridicule expressed in writing; to make
the subject of a lampoon.
Ribald poets had lampooned him. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To libel; defame; satirize; lash.

LAMPOONER
Lam*poon"er, n.

Defn: The writer of a lampoon. "Libelers, lampooners, and
pamphleteers." Tatler.

LAMPOONRY
Lam*poon"ry, n.

Defn: The act of lampooning; a lampoon, or lampoons.

LAMP-POST
Lamp"-post`, n.

Defn: A post (generally a pillar of iron) supporting a lamp or
lantern for lighting a street, park, etc.

LAMPREL
Lam"prel, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lamprey.

LAMPREY
Lam"prey, n. ; pl. Lampreys. Etym: [OE. lampreie, F. lamproie, LL.
lampreda, lampetra, from L. lambere to lick + petra rock, stone. The
lampreys are so called because they attach themselves with their
circular mouths to rocks and stones, whence they are also called
rocksuckers. See Lap to drink, Petrify.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An eel-like marsipobranch of the genus Petromyzon, and allied
genera. The lampreys have a round, sucking mouth, without jaws, but
set with numerous minute teeth, and one to three larger teeth on the
palate (see Illust. of Cyclostomi). There are seven small branchial
openings on each side. [Written also lamper eel, lamprel, and
lampron.]

Note: The common or sea lamprey of America and Europe (Petromyzon
marinus), which in spring ascends rivers to spawn, is considered
excellent food by many, and is sold as a market fish in some
localities. The smaller river lampreys mostly belong to the genus
Ammocoeles, or Lampetra, as A. fluviatilis, of Europe, and A.
æpypterus of America. All lampreys attach themselves to other fishes,
as parasites, by means of the suckerlike mouth.

LAMPRON
Lam"pron, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. lampreon. See Lamprey.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lamprey.

LAMPYRINE
Lam*py"rine, n. Etym: [See Lampyris.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect of the genus Lampyris, or family Lampyridæ. See
Lampyris.

LAMPYRIS
Lam*py"ris, n. Etym: [L., glowworm, Gr. ( (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of coleopterous insects, including the glowworms.

LANARKITE
Lan"ark*ite, n. Etym: [From Lanarkshire, a county in Scotland.]
(Min.)

Defn: A mineral consisting of sulphate of lead, occurring either
massive or in long slender prisms, of a greenish white or gray color.

LANARY
La"na*ry, n. Etym: [L. lanaria, fr. lanarius belonging to wool, lana
wool.]

Defn: A place for storing wool.

LANATE; LANATED
La"nate, La"na*ted,Etym: [L. lanatus, fr. lana wool, down.]

Defn: Wooly; covered with fine long hair, or hairlike filaments.

LANCASHIRE BOILER
La"ca*shire boil"er

Defn: . A steam boiler having two flues which contain the furnaces
and extend through the boiler from end to end.

LANCASTERIAN
Lan`cas*te"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the monitorial system of instruction
followed by Joseph Lancaster, of England, in which advanced pupils in
a school teach pupils below them.

LANCE
Lance, n. Etym: [OE. lance, F. lance, fr. L. lancea; cf. Gr. Launch.]

1. A weapon of war, consisting of a long shaft or handle and a steel
blade or head; a spear carried by horsemen, and often decorated with
a small flag; also, a spear or harpoon used by whalers and fishermen.
A braver soldier never couched lance. Shak.

2. A soldier armed with a lance; a lancer.

3. (Founding)

Defn: A small iron rod which suspends the core of the mold in casting
a shell.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: An instrument which conveys the charge of a piece of ordnance
and forces it home.

5. (Pyrotech.)

Defn: One of the small paper cases filled with combustible
composition, which mark the outlines of a figure. Free lance, in the
Middle Ages, and subsequently, a knight or roving soldier, who was
free to engage for any state or commander that purchased his
services; hence, a person who assails institutions or opinions on his
own responsibility without regard to party lines or deference to
authority.
 -- Lance bucket (Cavalry), a socket attached to a saddle or stirrup
strap, in which to rest the but of a lance.
 -- Lance corporal, same as Lancepesade.
 -- Lance knight, a lansquenet. B. Jonson.
 -- Lance snake (Zoöl.), the fer-de-lance.
 -- Stink-fire lance (Mil.), a kind of fuse filled with a composition
which burns with a suffocating odor; -- used in the counter
operations of miners. To break a lance, to engage in a tilt or
contest.

LANCE
Lance, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lanced (; p. pr. & vb. n. Lancing.]

1. To pierce with a lance, or with any similar weapon.
Seized the due victim, and with fury lanced Her back. Dryden.

2. To open with a lancet; to pierce; as, to lance a vein or an
abscess.

3. To throw in the manner of a lance. See Lanch.

LANCE FISH
Lance" fish`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A slender marine fish of the genus Ammodytes, especially
Ammodytes tobianus of the English coast; -- called also sand lance.

LANCEGAY; LANCEGAYE
Lance"gay`, Lance"gaye`, n. Etym: [OF. lancegaie, corrupted from the
same source as E. assagai, under the influence of F. lance lance. See
Assagai.]

Defn: A kind of spear anciently used. Its use was prohibited by a
statute of Richard II. Nares.
In his hand a launcegay, A long sword by his side. Chaucer.

LANCELET
Lance"let, n. Etym: [Lance + -let.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fishlike animal (Amphioxus lanceolatus), remarkable for
the rudimentary condition of its organs. It is the type of the class
Leptocardia. See Amphioxus, Leptocardia.

LANCELY
Lance"ly, a.

Defn: Like a lance. [R.] Sir P. Sidney.

LANCEOLAR
Lan"ce*o*lar, a. Etym: [L. lanceola a little lance, dim. of lancea
lance: cf. F. lancéolaire.] (Bot.)

Defn: Lanceolate.

LANCEOLATE; LANCEOLATED
Lan"ce*o*late, Lan"ce*o*la`ted a. Etym: [L. lanceolatus: cf. F.
lancéol. See Lanceolar.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Rather narrow, tapering to a point at the apex, and sometimes
at the base also; as, a lanceolate leaf.

LANCEPESADE
Lance`pe*sade", n. Etym: [F. lancepessade, lanspessade, anspessade,
It. lancia spezzata a broken lance or demilance, a demilance roan, a
light horseman, bodyguard.]

Defn: An assistant to a corporal; a private performing the duties of
a corporal; -- called also lance corporal.

LANCER
Lan"cer, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lancier.]

1. One who lances; one who carries a lance; especially, a member of a
mounted body of men armed with lances, attached to the cavalry
service of some nations. Wilhelm.

2. A lancet. [Obs.]

3. pl. (Dancing)

Defn: A set of quadrilles of a certain arrangement. [Written also
lanciers.]

LANCET
Lan"cet, n. Etym: [F. lancette, dim. of lance lance. See Lance.]

1. A surgical instrument of various forms, commonly sharp-pointed and
two-edged, used in venesection, and in opening abscesses, etc.

2. (Metal.)

Defn: An iron bar used for tapping a melting furnace. Knight. Lancet
arch (Arch.), a pointed arch, of which the width, or span, is narrow
compared with the height.
 -- Lancet architecture, a name given to a style of architecture, in
which lancet arches are common; -- peculiar to England and 13th
century.
 -- Lancet fish. (Zoöl.) (a) A large, voracious, deep-sea fish
(Alepidosaurus ferox), having long, sharp, lancetlike teeth. (b) The
doctor, or surgeon fish.

LANCEWOOD
Lance"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tough, elastic wood, often used for the shafts of gigs,
archery bows, fishing rods, and the like. Also, the tree which
produces this wood, Duguetia Quitarensis (a native of Guiana and
Cuba), and several other trees of the same family (Anonaseæ).
Australian lancewood, a myrtaceous tree (Backhousia Australis).

LANCH
Lanch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lanched; p. pr. & vb. n. Lanching. See
Lanching. See Launch, Lance.]

Defn: To throw, as a lance; to let fly; to launch.
See Whose arm can lanch the surer bolt. Dryden & Lee.

LANCIFEROUS
Lan*cif"er*ous, a Etym: [Lance + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing a lance.

LANCIFORM
Lan"ci*form, a Etym: [Lance + -form: cf. F. lanciforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a lance.

LANCINATE
Lan"ci*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lancinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lancinating.] Etym: [L. lancinatus, p. p. of lancinare to fear.]

Defn: To tear; to lacerate; to pierce or stab. De Quincey.

LANCINATING
Lan"ci*na`ting, a.

Defn: Piercing; seeming to pierce or stab; as, lancinating pains
(i.e., severe, darting pains).

LANCINATION
Lan`ci*na"tion, n.

Defn: A tearing; laceration. "Lancinations of the spirit." Jer.
Taylor.

LAND
Land, n.

Defn: Urine. See Lant. [Obs.]

LAND
Land, n. Etym: [AS. land, lond; akin to D., G., Icel., Sw., Dan., and
Goth. land. ]

1. The solid part of the surface of the earth; -- opposed to water as
constituting a part of such surface, especially to oceans and seas;
as, to sight land after a long voyage.
They turn their heads to sea, their sterns to land. Dryden.

2. Any portion, large or small, of the surface of the earth,
considered by itself, or as belonging to an individual or a people,
as a country, estate, farm, or tract.
Go view the land, even Jericho. Josh. ii. 1.
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth
accumulates and men decay. Goldsmith.

Note: In the expressions "to be, or dwell, upon land," "to go, or
fare, on land," as used by Chaucer, land denotes the country as
distinguished from the town.
A poor parson dwelling upon land [i.e., in the country]. Chaucer.

3. Ground, in respect to its nature or quality; soil; as, wet land;
good or bad land.

4. The inhabitants of a nation or people.
These answers, in the silent night received, The kind himself
divulged, the land believed. Dryden.

5. The mainland, in distinction from islands.

6. The ground or floor. [Obs.]
Herself upon the land she did prostrate. Spenser.

7. (Agric.)

Defn: The ground left unplowed between furrows; any one of several
portions into which a field is divided for convenience in plowing.

8. (Law)

Defn: Any ground, soil, or earth whatsoever, as meadows, pastures,
woods, etc., and everything annexed to it, whether by nature, as
trees, water, etc., or by the hand of man, as buildings, fences,
etc.; real estate. Kent. Bouvier. Burrill.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: The lap of the strakes in a clinker-built boat; the lap of
plates in an iron vessel; -- called also landing. Knight.

10. In any surface prepared with indentations, perforations, or
grooves, that part of the surface which is not so treated, as the
level part of a millstone between the furrows, or the surface of the
bore of a rifled gun between the grooves. Land agent, a person
employed to sell or let land, to collect rents, and to attend to
other money matters connected with land.
 -- Land boat, a vehicle on wheels propelled by sails.
 -- Land blink, a peculiar atmospheric brightness seen from sea over
distant snow-covered land in arctic regions. See Ice blink.
 -- Land breeze. See under Breeze.
 -- Land chain. See Gunter's chain.
 -- Land crab (Zoöl.), any one of various species of crabs which live
much on the land, and resort to the water chiefly for the purpose of
breeding. They are abundant in the West Indies and South America.
Some of them grow to a large size.
 -- Land fish a fish on land; a person quite out of place.Shak.
 -- Land force, a military force serving on land, as distinguished
from a naval force.
 -- Land, ho! (Naut.), a sailor's cry in announcing sight of land.
 -- Land ice, a field of ice adhering to the coast, in distinction
from a floe.
 -- Land leech (Zoöl.), any one of several species of blood-sucking
leeches, which, in moist, tropical regions, live on land, and are
often troublesome to man and beast.
 -- Land measure, the system of measurement used in determining the
area of land; also, a table of areas used in such measurement.
 -- Land, or House, of bondage, in Bible history, Egypt; by
extension, a place or condition of special oppression.
 -- Land o' cakes, Scotland.
 -- Land of Nod, sleep.
 -- Land of promise, in Bible history, Canaan: by extension, a better
country or condition of which one has expectation.
 -- Land of steady habits, a nickname sometimes given to the State of
Connecticut.
 -- Land office, a government office in which the entries upon, and
sales of, public land are registered, and other business respecting
the public lands is transacted. [U.S.] -- Land pike. (Zoöl.) (a) The
gray pike, or sauger. (b) The Menobranchus.
 -- Land service, military service as distinguished from naval
service.
 -- Land rail. (Zoöl) (a) The crake or corncrake of Europe. See
Crake. (b) An Australian rail (Hypotænidia Phillipensis); -- called
also pectoral rail.
 -- Land scrip, a certificate that the purchase money for a certain
portion of the public land has been paid to the officer entitled to
receive it. [U.S.] -- Land shark, a swindler of sailors on shore.
[Sailors' Cant] -- Land side (a) That side of anything in or on the
sea, as of an island or ship, which is turned toward the land. (b)
The side of a plow which is opposite to the moldboard and which
presses against the unplowed land.
 -- Land snail (Zoöl.), any snail which lives on land, as
distinguished from the aquatic snails are Pulmonifera, and belong to
the Geophila; but the operculated land snails of warm countries are
Dioecia, and belong to the Tænioglossa. See Geophila, and Helix.
 -- Land spout, a descent of cloud and water in a conical form during
the occurrence of a tornado and heavy rainfall on land.
 -- Land steward, a person who acts for another in the management of
land, collection of rents, etc.
 -- Land tortoise, Land turtle (Zoöl.), any tortoise that habitually
lives on dry land, as the box tortoise. See Tortoise.
 -- Land warrant, a certificate from the Land Office, authorizing a
person to assume ownership of a public land. [U.S.] -- Land wind.
Same as Land breeze (above).
 -- To make land (Naut.), to sight land. To set the land, to see by
the compass how the land bears from the ship.
 -- To shut in the land, to hide the land, as when fog, or an
intervening island, obstructs the view.

LAND
Land, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Landed; p. pr. & vb. n. Landing.]

1. To set or put on shore from a ship or other water craft; to
disembark; to debark.
I 'll undertake top land them on our coast. Shak.

2. To catch and bring to shore; to capture; as, to land a fish.

3. To set down after conveying; to cause to fall, alight, or reach;
to bring to the end of a course; as, he landed the quoit near the
stake; to be thrown from a horse and landed in the mud; to land one
in difficulties or mistakes.

LAND
Land, v. i.

Defn: To go on shore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to come to
the end of a course.

LANDAMMAN
Lan"dam*man, n. Etym: [G. Landamman; land land, country + amimann
bailiff. See Land, and Ambassador.]

1. A chief magistrate in some of the Swiss cantons.

2. The president of the diet of the Helvetic republic.

LANDAU
Lan"dau, n. Etym: [From the town Ladau in Germany; cf. F. landau. See
Land, Island.]

Defn: A four-wheeled covered vehicle, the top of which is divided
into two sections which can be let down, or thrown back, in such a
manner as to make an open carriage. [Written also landaw.]

LANDAULET
Lan`dau*let", n. Etym: [Cf. F. landaulet, dim, of landau. See
Landau.]

Defn: A small landau.

LANDDROST; LANDTROST
Land"drost`, n.; pl. -drosten  (#). Sometimes incorrectly Landtrost.
[D., fr. land land + drost a kind of official; akin to G. truchsess.]
In Cape Colony:
 (a) A chief magistrate in rural districts. He was replaced in 1827
by "resident magistrates."
 (b) The president of the Heemraad.

LANDED
Land"ed, a.

1. Having an estate in land.
The House of Commons must consist, for the most part, of landed men.
Addison.

2. Consisting in real estate or land; as, landed property; landed
security.

LANDER
Land"er, n.

1. One who lands, or makes a landing. "The lander in a lonely isle."
Tennyson.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A person who waits at the mouth of the shaft to receive the
kibble of ore.

LANDFALL
Land"fall, n.

1. A sudden transference of property in land by the death of its
owner.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Sighting or making land when at sea. A good landfall (Naut.),
the sighting of land in conformity with the navigator's reckoning and
expectation.

LANDFLOOD
Land"flood`, n.

Defn: An overflowing of land by river; an inundation; a freshet.
Clarendon.

LANDGRAVE
Land"grave`, n. Etym: [G. landgraf; land land + graf earl, count; cf.
D. landgraaf, F. landgrave.]

Defn: A German nobleman of a rank corresponding to that of an earl in
England and of a count in France.

Note: The title was first adopted by some German counts in the
twelfth century, to distinguish themselves from the inferior counts
under their jurisdiction. Three of them were princes of the empire.

LANDGRAVIATE
Land*gra"vi*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. landgraviat.]

1. The territory held by a landgrave.

2. The office, jurisdiction, or authority of a landgrave.

LANDGRAVINE
Land"gra*vine, n. Etym: [G. landgräfin; cf. D. landgravin.]

Defn: The wife of a landgrave.

LANDHOLDER
Land"hold`er, n.

Defn: A holder, owner, or proprietor of land.
 -- Land"hold`ing, n. & a.

LANDING
Land"ing, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to or used for, setting, bringing, or going, on
shore. Landing charges, charges or fees paid on goods unloaded from a
vessel.
 -- Landing net, a small, bag-shaped net, used in fishing to take the
fish from the water after being hooked.
 -- Landing stage, a floating platform attached at one end to a wharf
in such a manner as to rise and fall with the tide, and thus
facilitate passage between the wharf and a vessel lying beside the
stage.
 -- Landing waiter, a customhouse officer who oversees the landing of
goods, etc., from vessels; a landwaiter.

LANDING
Land"ing, n.

1. A going or bringing on shore.

2. A place for landing, as from a ship, a carriage. etc.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The level part of a staircase, at the top of a flight of
stairs, or connecting one flight with another. Landing place. me as
Landing, n., 2 and 3.

LANDLADY
Land"la`dy, n.; pl. Landladies. Etym: [Cf. Landlord.]

1. A woman having real estate which she leases to a tenant or
tenants.

2. The mistress of an inn or lodging house.

LAND LEAGUE
Land League.

Defn: In Ireland, a combination of tenant farmers and other,
organized, with Charles Stewart Parnell as president, in 1879 with a
view to the reduction of farm rents and a reconstruction of the land
laws. -- Land"*lea`guer (#), n. -- Land"*lea`guism (#), n.

The Land League, of which Machael Davitt was the founder, originated
in Mayo in August, and at a Dublin in October the organization was
extended to all Ireland, with Parnell as president.
Encyc. Brit.

LANDLEAPER
Land"leap`er, n.

Defn: See Landlouper.

LANDLESS
Land"less, a.

Defn: Having no property in land.

LANDLOCK
Land"lock`, v. t.

Defn: To inclose, or nearly inclose, as a harbor or a vessel, with
land.

LANDLOCKED
Land"locked`, a.

1. Inclosed, or nearly inclosed, by land.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Confined to a fresh-water lake by reason of waterfalls or dams;
-- said of fishes that would naturally seek the sea, after spawning;
as, the landlocked salmon.

LANDLOPER
Land"lo`per, n.

Defn: Same as Landlouper.

LANDLORD
Land"lord`, n. Etym: [See Land, and Lord.]

1. The lord of a manor, or of land; the owner of land or houses which
he leases to a tenant or tenants.

2. The master of an inn or of a lodging house.
Upon our arrival at the inn, my companion fetched out the jolly
landlord. Addison.

LANDLORDISM
Land"lord`ism, n.

Defn: The state of being a landlord; the characteristics of a
landlord; specifically, in Great Britain, the relation of landlords
to tenants, especially as regards leased agricultural lands. J. S.
Mill.

LANDLORDRY
Land"lord`ry, n.

Defn: The state of a landlord. [Obs.]

LANDLOUPER
Land"loup`er, n. Etym: [D. landlooper, lit., landrunner; land land +
loopen to run. See Land, and Leap.]

Defn: A vagabond; a vagrant. [Written also landleaper and landloper.]
"Bands of landloupers." Moltey.

LANDLOUPING
Land"loup`ing, a.

Defn: Vagrant; wandering about.

LANDLUBBER
Land"lub`ber, n. Etym: [Prop. fr. land + lubber, or possibly
corrupted fr. laudlouper.] (Naut.)

Defn: One who passes his life on land; -- so called among seamen in
contempt or ridicule.

LANDMAN
Land"man, n.; pl. Landmen (.

1. A man who lives or serves on land; -- opposed to seaman.

2. (Eng.)

Defn: An occupier of land. Cowell.

LANDMARK
Land"mark`, n. Etym: [AS. landmearc. See Land, and Mark a sign.]

1. A mark to designate the boundary of land; any , mark or fixed
object (as a marked tree, a stone, a ditch, or a heap of stones) by
which the limits of a farm, a town, or other portion of territory may
be known and preserved.

2. Any conspicuous object on land that serves as a guide; some
prominent object, as a hill or steeple. Landmarks of history,
important events by which eras or conditions are determined.

LAND OF STEADY HABITS
Land of Steady Habits.

Defn: Connecticut; -- a nickname alluding to the moral character of
its inhabitants, implied by the rigid laws (see Blue laws) of the
early period.

LANDOWNER
Land"own`er, n.

Defn: An owner of land.

LANDOWNING
Land"own`ing, n.

Defn: The owning of land.
 -- a.

Defn: Having property in land; of or pertaining to landowners.

LAND-POOR
Land"-poor`, a.

Defn: Pecuniarily embarrassed through owning much unprofitable land.
[Colloq.]

LANDREEVE
Land"reeve`, n. Etym: [Land + reeve an officer.]

Defn: A subordinate officer on an extensive estate, who acts as an
assistant to the steward.

LANDSCAPE
Land"scape, n. [Formerly written also landskip.] Etym: [D. landschap;
land land + -schap, equiv. to E. -schip; akin to G. landschaft, Sw.
landskap, Dan. landskab. See Land, and -schip.]

1. A portion of land or territory which the eye can comprehend in a
single view, including all the objects it contains.

2. A picture representing a scene by land or sea, actual or fancied,
the chief subject being the general aspect of nature, as fields,
hills, forests, water. etc.

3. The pictorial aspect of a country.
The landscape of his native country had taken hold on his heart.
Macaulay.
Landscape gardening, The art of laying out grounds and arranging
trees, shrubbery, etc., in such a manner as to produce a picturesque
effect.

LANDSCAPIST
Land"scap`ist, n.

Defn: A painter of landscapes.

LANDSKIP
Land"skip, n. Etym: [See Landscape.]

Defn: A landscape. [Obs. except in poetry.]
Straight my eye hath caught new pleasures, Whilst the landskip round
it measures. Milton.

LANDSLIP; LANDSLIDE
Land"slip`, Land"slide`, n.

1. The slipping down of a mass of land from a mountain, hill, etc.

2. The land which slips down.

LANDSMAN
Lands"man, n.; pl. Landsmen.

1. One who lives on the land; -- opposed to seaman.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A sailor on his first voyage.

LANDSTHING
Lands"thing`, n. [Dan. landsthing, landsting, fr. land land + thing,
ting, parliament. See Land; Thing.] (Denmark.)

Defn: See Legislature, below.

LANDSTORM
Land"storm`, n. [Sw.]

Defn: See Varnpligtige.

LANDSTREIGHT
Land"streight`, n. Etym: [See Strait.]

Defn: A narrow strip of land. [Obs.]

LANDSTURM
Land"sturm`, n. Etym: [G. See Land, and Storm.]

Defn: That part of the reserve force in Germany which is called out
last.

LANDTAG
Land"tag`, n. Etym: [G. See Land, and Day.]

Defn: The diet or legislative body; as, the Landtag of Prussia.

LANDWAITER
Land"wait`er, n.

Defn: See Landing waiter, under Landing, a.

LANDWARD
Land"ward, adv. & a.

Defn: Toward the land.

LANDWEHR
Land"wehr`, n. Etym: [G., fr. land land, country + wehr defense.]

Defn: That part of the army, in Germany and Austria, which has
completed the usual military service and is exempt from duty in time
of peace, except that it is called out occasionally for drill.

LANE
Lane, a. Etym: [See Lone.]

Defn: Alone [Scot.] His lane, by himself; himself alone.

LANE
Lane, n. Etym: [OE. lane, lone, AS. lone, lone; akin to D. laan,
OFries. lana, lona.]

Defn: A passageway between fences or hedges which is not traveled as
a highroad; an alley between buildings; a narrow way among trees,
ras, a lane between lines of men, or through a field of ice.
It is become a turn-again lane unto them which they can not go
through. Tyndale.

LANG
Lang, a. & adv.

Defn: Long. [Obs. or Scot.]

LANGAHA
Lan"ga*ha, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A curious colubriform snake of the genus Xyphorhynchus, from
Madagascar. It is brownish red, and its hose is prolonged in the form
of a sharp blade.

LANGAREY
Lan`ga*rey", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of numerous species of long-winged, shrikelike birds of
Australia and the East Indies, of the genus Artamus, and allied
genera; called also wood swallow.

LANGATE
Lan"gate, n. (Surg.)

Defn: A linen roller used in dressing wounds.

LANGDAK
Lang"dak`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wolf (Canis pallipes), found in India, allied to the jackal.

LANGRAGE; LANGREL
Lan"grage, Lan"grel, n.

Defn: A kind of shot formerly used at sea for tearing sails and
rigging. It consisted of bolts, nails, and other pieces of iron
fastened together or inclosed in a canister.

LANGRET
Lan"gret, n.

Defn: A kind of loaded die. [Obs.]

LANGRIDGE
Lan"gridge, n.

Defn: See Langrage.

Note: [Sometimes compounded with shot.]

LANGSYNE
Lang`syne", adv. & n. Etym: [Scot. lang long + syne since.]

Defn: Long since; long ago. [Scot.]

LANGTERALOO
Lang`ter*a*loo", n. Etym: [See Loo.]

Defn: An old game at cards. See Loo (a) Tatler.

LANGUAGE
Lan"guage, n. Etym: [OE. langage, F. langage, fr. L. lingua the
tongue, hence speech, language; akin to E. tongue. See Tongue, cf.
Lingual.]

1. Any means of conveying or communicating ideas; specifically, human
speech; the expression of ideas by the voice; sounds, expressive of
thought, articulated by the organs of the throat and mouth.

Note: Language consists in the oral utterance of sounds which usage
has made the representatives of ideas. When two or more persons
customarily annex the same sounds to the same ideas, the expression
of these sounds by one person communicates his ideas to another. This
is the primary sense of language, the use of which is to communicate
the thoughts of one person to another through the organs of hearing.
Articulate sounds are represented to the eye by letters, marks, or
characters, which form words.

2. The expression of ideas by writing, or any other instrumentality.

3. The forms of speech, or the methods of expressing ideas, peculiar
to a particular nation.

4. The characteristic mode of arranging words, peculiar to an
individual speaker or writer; manner of expression; style.
Others for language all their care express. Pope.

5. The inarticulate sounds by which animals inferior to man express
their feelings or their wants.

6. The suggestion, by objects, actions, or conditions, of ideas
associated therewith; as, the language of flowers.
There was . . . language in their very gesture. Shak.

7. The vocabulary and phraseology belonging to an art or department
of knowledge; as, medical language; the language of chemistry or
theology.

8. A race, as distinguished by its speech. [R.]
All the people, the nations, and the languages, fell down and
worshiped the golden image. Dan. iii. 7.
Language master, a teacher of languages.[Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Speech; tongue; idiom; dialect; phraseology; diction; discourse;
conversation; talk.
 -- Language, Speech, Tongue, Idiom, Dialect. Language is generic,
denoting, in its most extended use, any mode of conveying ideas;
speech is the language of articulate sounds; tongue is the Anglo-
Saxon tern for language, esp. for spoken language; as, the English
tongue. Idiom denotes the forms of construction peculiar to a
particular language; dialects are varieties if expression which
spring up in different parts of a country among people speaking
substantially the same language.

LANGUAGE
Lan"guage, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Languaged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Languaging.]

Defn: To communicate by language; to express in language.
Others were languaged in such doubtful expressions that they have a
double sense. Fuller.

LANGUAGED
Lan"guaged, a.

Defn: Having a language; skilled in language; -- chiefly used in
composition. " Manylanguaged nations." Pope.

LANGUAGELESS
Lan"guage*less, a.

Defn: Lacking or wanting language; speechless; silent. Shak.

LANGUED
Langued, a. Etym: [F. langue tongue. See Language.] (Her.)

Defn: Tongued; having the tongue visible.
Lions . . . represented as armed and langued gules. Cussans.

LANGUE D'OC
Langue` d'oc". Etym: [F., language of oc yes.]

Defn: The dialect, closely akin to French, formerly spoken south of
the Loire (in which the word for "yes" was oc); Provencal.

LANGUE D'OIL
Langue` d'oïl". Etym: [F., language of oïl yes.]

Defn: The dialect formerly spoken north of the Loire (in which the
word for "yes" was oïl, F. oui).

LANGUENTE
Lan*guen"te, adv. Etym: [It., p. pr. of languire. See Languish.]
(Mus.)

Defn: In a languishing manner; pathetically.

LANGUET
Lan"guet, n. Etym: [F. languette, dim. of langue tongue, L. lingua.]

1. Anything resembling the tongue in form or office; specif., the
slip of metal in an organ pipe which turns the current of air toward
its mouth.

2. That part of the hilt, in certain kinds of swords, which overlaps
the scabbard.

LANGUID
Lan"guid, a. Etym: [L. languidus, fr. languere to be faint or
languid: cf. F. languide. See Languish.]

1. Drooping or flagging from exhaustion; indisposed to exertion;
without animation; weak; weary; heavy; dull. " Languid, powerless
limbs. " Armstrong.
Fire their languid souls with Cato's virtue. Addison.

2. Slow in progress; tardy. " No motion so swift or languid."
Bentley.

3. Promoting or indicating weakness or heaviness; as, a languid day.
Feebly she laugheth in the languid moon. Keats.
Their idleness, aimless and languid airs. W. Black.

Syn.
 -- Feeble; weak; faint; sickly; pining; exhausted; weary; listless;
heavy; dull; heartless.
 -- Lan"guid*ly, adv.
 -- Lan"guid*ness, n.

LANGUISH
Lan"guish, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Languished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Languishing.] Etym: [OE. languishen, languissen, F. languir, L.
languere; cf. Gr. lakra to lag behind; prob. akin to E. lag, lax, and
perh. to E. slack.See -ish.]

1. To become languid or weak; to lose strength or animation; to be or
become dull, feeble or spiritless; to pine away; to wither or fade.
We . . . do languish of such diseases. 2 Esdras viii. 31.
Cease, fond nature, cease thy strife, And let me landguish into life.
Pope.
For the fields of Heshbon languish. Is. xvi. 8.

2. To assume an expression of weariness or tender grief, appealing
for sympathy. Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- To pine; wither; fade; droop; faint.

LANGUISH
Lan"guish, v. i.

Defn: To cause to dr [Obs.] Shak. Dryden.

LANGUISH
Lan"guish, n.

Defn: See Languishiment. [Obs. or Poetic]
What, of death, too, That rids our dogs of languish Shak.
And the blue languish of soft Allia's eye. Pope.

LANGUISHER
Lan"guish*er, n.

Defn: One who languishes.

LANGUISHING
Lan"guish*ing, a.

1. Becoming languid and weak; pining; losing health and strength.

2. Amorously pensive; as, languishing eyes, or look.

LANGUISHINGLY
Lan"guish*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a languishing manner.

LANGUISHMENT
Lan"guish*ment, n.

1. The state of languishing. " Lingering languishment." Shak.

2. Tenderness of look or mien; amorous pensiveness.

LANGUISHNESS
Lan"guish*ness, n.

Defn: Languishment. [Obs.]

LANGUOR
Lan"guor, n. Etym: [OE. langour, OF. langour, F. langueur, L.
languor. See Languish.]

1. A state of the body or mind which is caused by exhaustion of
strength and characterized by a languid feeling; feebleness;
lassitude; laxity.

2. Any enfeebling disease. [Obs.]
Sick men with divers languors. Wyclif (Luke iv. 40).

3. Listless indolence; dreaminess. Pope. " German dreams, Italian
languors." The Century.

Syn.
 -- Feebleness; weakness; faintness; weariness; dullness; heaviness;
lassitude; listlessness.

LANGUOROUS
Lan"guor*ous, a. Etym: [From Languor: cf. F. langoureux.]

Defn: Producing, or tending to produce, languor; characterized by
languor. [Obs. or Poetic]
Whom late I left in languorous constraint. Spenser.
To wile the length from languorous hours, and draw The sting from
pain. Tennyson.

LANGURE
Lan"gure, v. i.

Defn: To languish. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LANGYA
Lan"gya, n. (Zoöl.) Etym: [Native name Anglicized.]

Defn: One of several species of East Indian and Asiatic fresh-water
fishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, remarkable for their power of
living out of water, and for their tenacity of life; -- called also
walking fishes.

LANIARD
Lan"iard, n.

Defn: See Lanyard.

LANIARIFORM
La`ni*ar"i*form, a. Etym: [Laniary + -form.] (Anat.)

Defn: Shaped like a laniary, or canine, tooth. Owen.

LANIARY
La"ni*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. laniarius, fr. lanius butcher, laniare to
tear in pieces: cf. F. laniaire.] (Anat.)

Defn: Lacerating or tearing; as, the laniary canine teeth.

LANIARY
La"ni*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. Laniary, a.]

1. The shambles; a place of slaughter. [R.]

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A laniary, or canine, tooth.

LANIATE
La"ni*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. laniatus, p. p. of laniare.]

Defn: To tear in pieces. [R.]

LANIATION
La`ni*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. laniatio.]

Defn: A tearing in pieces. [R.]

LANIER
Lan"ier, n. Etym: [F. lanière. See Lanyard.] [Written also lanner,
lanyer.]

1. A thong of leather; a whip lash. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

2. A strap used to fasten together parts of armor, to hold the shield
by, and the like. Fairholt.

LANIFEROUS
La*nif"er*ous, n. Etym: [L. lanifer; lana wool + ferre to bear: cf.
F. lanifère.]

Defn: Bearing or producing wool.

LANIFICAL
La*nif"i*cal, a. Etym: [L. lanificus; lana wool + facere to make.]

Defn: Working in wool.

LANIFICE
Lan"i*fice, n. Etym: [L. lanificium: cf. OF. lanifice.]

Defn: Anything made of wool. [Obs.] Bacon.

LANIGEROUS
La*nig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. laniger; lano wool + gerere to hear.]

Defn: Bearing or producing wool.

LANIOID
La"ni*oid, a. Etym: [NL. Lanius (fr. L. lanius a butcher), the
typical genus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the shrikes (family Laniidæ).

LANK
Lank, a. [Compar. Lanker; superl. Lankest.] Etym: [AS. hlanc; cf. G.
lenken to turn, gelenk joint, OHG. hlanca hip, side, flank, and E.
link of a chain.]

1. Slender and thin; not well filled out; not plump; shrunken; lean.
Meager and lank with fasting grown. Swift.
Who would not choose . . . to have rather a lank purse than an empty
brain Barrow.

2. Languid; drooping.[Obs.]
Who, piteous of her woes, reared her lank head. Milton.
Lank hair, long, thin hair. Macaulay.

LANK
Lank, v. i. & t.

Defn: To become lank; to make lank. [Obs.] Shak. G. Fletcher.

LANKINESS
Lank"i*ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality or being lanky.

LANKLY
Lank"ly, adv.

Defn: In a lank manner.

LANKNESS
Lank"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being lank.

LANKY
Lank"y, a.

Defn: Somewhat lank. Thackeray.
The lanky Dinka, nearly seven feet in height. The Century.

LANNER; LANNERET
Lan"ner, n. f. Lan"ner*et, n. m. Etym: [F. lanier, OF. also, lasnier.
Cf. Lanyard.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long-tailed falcon (Falco lanarius), of Southern Europe,
Asia, and Northern Africa, resembling the American prairie falcon.

LANOLIN
Lan"o*lin, n. Etym: [L. lana wool + oleum oil.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar fatlike body, made up of cholesterin and certain
fatty acids, found in feathers, hair, wool, and keratin tissues
generally.

Note: Under the same name, it is prepared from wool for commercial
purposes, and forms an admirable basis for ointments, being readily
absorbed by the skin.

LANSEH
Lan"seh, n.

Defn: The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansium
domesticum). It has a fleshy pulp, with an agreeable subacid taste.
Balfour.

LANSQUENET
Lans"que*net, n. Etym: [F., fr. G. landsknecht a foot soldier, also a
game of cards introduced by these foot soldiers; land country +
knecht boy, servant. See Land, and Knight.]

1. A German foot soldier in foreign service in the 15th and 16th
centuries; a soldier of fortune; -- a term used in France and Western
Europe.

2. A game at cards, vulgarly called lambskinnet.
[They play] their little game of lansquenet. Longfellow.

LANT
Lant, n.

Defn: Urine. [Prov. Eng.] Nares.

LANT
Lant, n. Etym: [Cf. Lance.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small, slender, marine fishes of
the genus Ammedytes. The common European species (A. tobianus) and
the American species (A. Americanus) live on sandy shores, buried in
the sand, and are caught in large quantities for bait. Called also
launce, and sand eel.

LANT
Lant, n.

Defn: See Lanterloo. [Obs.] Halliwell.

LANTANIUM; LANTANUM
Lan*ta"ni*um, Lan"ta*num, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Lanthanum.

LANTANURIC
Lan`ta*nu"ric, a. Etym: [Formed by transposition of the letters of
allantoin and -uric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic acid of
the uric acid group, obtained by the decomposition of allantoin, and
usually called allanturic acid.

LANTERLOO
Lan"ter*loo`, n.

Defn: An old name of loo (a).

LANTERN
Lan"tern, n. Etym: [F. lanterne, L. lanterna, laterna, from Gr.
Lamp.]

1. Something inclosing a light, and protecting it from wind, rain,
etc. ; -- sometimes portable, as a closed vessel or case of horn,
perforated tin, glass, oiled paper, or other material, having a lamp
or candle within; sometimes fixed, as the glazed inclosure of a
street light, or of a lighthouse light.

2. (Arch.)
(a) An open structure of light material set upon a roof, to give
light and air to the interior.
(b) A cage or open chamber of rich architecture, open below into the
building or tower which it crowns.
(c) A smaller and secondary cupola crowning a larger one, for
ornament, or to admit light; such as the lantern of the cupola of the
Capitol at Washington, or that of the Florence cathedral.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A lantern pinion or trundle wheel. See Lantern pinion (below).

4. (Steam Engine)

Defn: A kind of cage inserted in a stuffing box and surrounding a
piston rod, to separate the packing into two parts and form a chamber
between for the reception of steam, etc. ; -- called also lantern
brass.

5. (Founding)

Defn: A perforated barrel to form a core upon.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Aristotle's lantern.

Note: Fig. 1 represents a hand lantern; fig. 2, an arm lantern; fig.
3, a breast lantern; -- so named from the positions in which they are
carried. Dark lantern, a lantern with a single opening, which may be
closed so as to conceal the light; -- called also bull's-eye.
 -- Lantern fly, Lantern carrier (Zoöl.), any one of several species
of large, handsome, hemipterous insects of the genera Laternaria,
Fulgora, and allies, of the family Fulgoridæ. The largest species is
Laternaria phosphorea of Brazil. The head of some species has been
supposed to be phosphorescent.
 -- Lantern jaws, long, thin jaws; hence, a thin visage.
 -- Lantern pinion, Lantern wheel (Mach.), a kind of pinion or wheel
having cylindrical bars or trundles, instead of teeth, inserted at
their ends in two parallel disks or plates; -- so called as
resembling a lantern in shape; -- called also wallower, or trundle.
 -- Lantern shell (Zoöl.), any translucent, marine, bivalve shell of
the genus Anatina, and allied genera.
 -- Magic lantern, an optical instrument consisting of a case
inclosing a light, and having suitable lenses in a lateral tube, for
throwing upon a screen, in a darkened room or the like, greatly
magnified pictures from slides placed in the focus of the outer lens.

LANTERN
Lan"tern, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lanterned; p. pr. & vb. n. Lanterning.]
Etym: [Cf. F. lanterner to hang at the lamp post, fr. lanterne. See
Lantern.]

Defn: To furnish with a lantern; as, to lantern a lighthouse.

LANTERN-JAWED
Lan"tern-jawed`, a.

Defn: Having lantern jaws or long, thin jaws; as, a lantern-jawed
person.

LANTHANITE
Lan"tha*nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Hydrous carbonate of lanthanum, found in tabular while
crystals.

LANTHANUM
Lan"tha*num, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A rare element of the group of the earth metals, allied to
aluminium. It occurs in certain rare minerals, as cerite, gadolinite,
orthite, etc., and was so named from the difficulty of separating it
from cerium, didymium, and other rare elements with which it is
usually associated. Atomic weight 138.5. Symbol La. [Formerly written
also lanthanium.]

LANTHOPINE
Lan"tho*pine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extracted
as a white crystalline substance.

LANTHORN
Lan"thorn, n.

Defn: See Lantern. [Obs.]

LANUGINOSE; LANUGINOUS
La*nu"gi*nose`, La*nu"gi*nous, a. Etym: [L. lanuginosus, fr. lanugo,
-ginis, woolly substance, down, fr. lana wool: cf. F. lanugineux.]

Defn: Covered with down, or fine soft hair; downy.

LANUGO
La*nu"go, n. Etym: [See Lanuginose.] (Anat.)

Defn: The soft woolly hair which covers most parts of the mammal
fetus, and in man is shed before or soon after birth.

LANYARD
Lan"yard, n. Etym: [F.lanière thong, strap, OF. lasniere, fr. lasne
strap, thong, L. lacinia lappet. flap, edge of a garment. Cf.
Lanier.] [Written also laniard.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A short piece of rope or line for fastening something in ships;
as, the lanyards of the gun ports, of the buoy, and the like; esp.,
pieces passing through the dead-eyes, and used to extend shrouds,
stays, etc.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A strong cord, about twelve feet long, with an iron hook at one
end a handle at the other, used in firing cannon with a friction
tube.

LANYER
Lan"yer, n.

Defn: See Lanier.

LAOCOON; LAOCOOEN
La*oc"o*ön, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A priest of Apollo, during the Trojan war. (See 2.)

2. (Sculp.)

Defn: A marble group in the Vatican at Rome, representing the priest
Laocoön, with his sons, infolded in the coils of two serpents, as
described by Virgil.

LAODICEAN
La*od`i*ce"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Laodicea, a city in Phrygia Major; like the
Christians of Laodicea; lukewarm in religion. Rev. iii. 14-16.

LAP
Lap, n. Etym: [OE. lappe, AS. læppa; akin to D. lap patch, piece, G.
lappen, OHG. lappa, Dan. lap, Sw. lapp.]

1. The loose part of a coat; the lower part of a garment that plays
loosely; a skirt; an apron. Chaucer.

2. An edge; a border; a hem, as of cloth. Chaucer.
If he cuts off but a lap of truth's garment, his heart smites him.
Fuller.

3. The part of the clothing that lies on the knees or thighs when one
sits down; that part of the person thus covered; figuratively, a
place of rearing and fostering; as, to be reared in the lap of
luxury.
Men expect that happiness should drop into their laps. Tillotson.

4. That part of any substance or fixture which extends over, or lies
upon, or by the side of, a part of another; as, the lap of a board;
also, the measure of such extension over or upon another thing.

Note: The lap of shingles or slates in roofing is the distance one
course extends over the second course below, the distance over the
course immediately below being called the cover.

5. (Steam Engine)

Defn: The amount by which a slide valve at its half stroke overlaps a
port in the seat, being equal to the distance the valve must move
from its mid stroke position in order to begin to open the port. Used
alone, lap refers to outside lap. See Outside lap (below).

6. The state or condition of being in part extended over or by the
side of something else; or the extent of the overlapping; as, the
second boat got a lap of half its length on the leader.

7. One circuit around a race track, esp. when the distance is a small
fraction of a mile; as, to run twenty laps; to win by three laps. See
Lap, to fold, 2.

8. In card playing and other games, the points won in excess of the
number necessary to complete a game; -- so called when they are
counted in the score of the following game.

9. (Cotton Manuf.)

Defn: A sheet, layer, or bat, of cotton fiber prepared for the
carding machine.

10. (Mach.)

Defn: A piece of brass, lead, or other soft metal, used to hold a
cutting or polishing powder in cutting glass, gems, and the like, or
in polishing cutlery, etc. It is usually in the form of wheel or
disk, which revolves on a vertical axis. Lap joint, a joint made by
one layer, part, or piece, overlapping another, as in the scarfing of
timbers.
 -- Lap weld, a lap joint made by welding together overlapping edges
or ends.
 -- Inside lap (Steam Engine), lap of the valve with respect to the
exhaust port.
 -- Outside lap, lap with respect to the admission, or steam, port.

LAP
Lap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lapped (; p. pr. & vb. n. Lapping.]

1. To rest or recline in a lap, or as in a lap.
To lap his head on lady's breast. Praed.

2. To cut or polish with a lap, as glass, gems, cutlery, etc. See 1st
Lap, 10.

LAP
Lap, v. t. Etym: [OE. lappen to fold (see Lap, n.); cf. also OE.
wlappen, perh. another form of wrappen, E, wrap.]

1. To fold; to bend and lay over or on something; as, to lap a piece
of cloth.

2. To wrap or wind around something.
About the paper . . . I lapped several times a slender thread of very
black silk. Sir I. Newton.

3. To infold; to hold as in one's lap; to cherish.
Her garment spreads, and laps him in the folds. Dryden.

4. To lay or place over anything so as to partly or wholly cover it;
as, to lap one shingle over another; to lay together one partly over
another; as, to lap weather-boards; also, to be partly over, or by
the side of (something); as, the hinder boat lapped the foremost one.

5. (Carding & Spinning)

Defn: To lay together one over another, as fleeces or slivers for
further working. To lap boards, shingles, etc., to lay one partly
over another.
 -- To lap timbers, to unite them in such a way as to preserve the
same breadth and depth throughout, as by scarfing. Weale.

LAP
Lap, v. i.

Defn: To be turned or folded; to lie partly upon or by the side of
something, or of one another; as, the cloth laps back; the boats lap;
the edges lap.
The upper wings are opacous; at their hinder ends, where they lap
over, transparent, like the wing of a flay. Grew.

LAP
Lap, v. i. Etym: [OE. lappen, lapen, AS. lapian; akin to LG. lappen,
OHG. laffan, Icel. lepja, Dan. lade, Sw. läppja, L. lambere; cf. Gr.
llepio. Cf. Lambent.]

1. To take up drink or food with the tongue; to drink or feed by
licking up something.
The dogs by the River Nilus's side, being thirsty, lap hastily as
they run along the shore. Sir K. Digby.

2. To make a sound like that produced by taking up drink with the
tongue.
I heard the ripple washing in the reeds, And the wild water lapping
on the crag. Tennyson.

LAP
Lap, v. t.

Defn: To take into the mouth with the tongue; to lick up with a quick
motion of the tongue.
They 'II take suggestion as a cat laps milk. Shak.

LAP
Lap, n.

1. The act of lapping with, or as with, the tongue; as, to take
anything into the mouth with a lap.

2. The sound of lapping.

LAPAROCELE
Lap"a*ro*cele`, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A rupture or hernia in the lumbar regions.

LAPAROTOMY
Lap`a*rot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: A cutting through the walls of the abdomen, as in the Cæsarean
section.

LAPBOARD
Lap"board`, n.

Defn: A board used on the lap as a substitute for a table, as by
tailors.

LAPDOG
Lap"dog`, n.

Defn: A small dog fondled in the lap.

LAPEL
La*pel", n. Etym: [Dim. of lap a fold.]

Defn: That part of a garment which is turned back; specifically, the
lap, or fold, of the front of a coat in continuation of collar.
[Written also lappel and lapelle.]

LAPELLED
La*pelled", a.

Defn: Furnished with lapels.

LAPFUL
Lap"ful, n.; pl. Lapfuls (.

Defn: As much as the lap can contain.

LAPICIDE
Lap"i*cide, n. Etym: [L. lapicida, fr. lapis stone + caedere to cut.]

Defn: A stonecutter. [Obs.]

LAPIDARIAN
Lap`i*da"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to stone; inscribed on stone; as, a lapidarian
record.

LAPIDARIOUS
Lap`i*da"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. lapidarius, fr. lapis, -idis, stone.]

Defn: Consisting of stones.

LAPIDARY
Lap"i*da*ry, n. ; pl. Lapidaries. Etym: [L. lapidarius, fr.
lapidarius pertaining to stone: cf. F. lapidaire.]

1. An artificer who cuts, polishes, and engraves precious stones;
hence, a dealer in precious stones.

2. A virtuoso skilled in gems or precious stones; a connoisseur of
lapidary work. Lapidary's lathe, mill, or wheel, a machine consisting
essentially of a revolving lap on a vertical spindle, used by a
lapidary for grinding and polishing.

LAPIDARY
Lap"i*da*ry, a. Etym: [L. lapidarius pertaining to stone: cf. F.
lapidaire.]

1. Of or pertaining to the art of cutting stones, or engraving on
stones, either gems or monuments; as, lapidary ornamentation.

2. Of or pertaining to monumental inscriptions; as, lapidary
adulation. Lapidary style, that style which is proper for monumental
and other inscriptions; terse; sententious.

LAPIDATE
Lap"i*date, v. t. Etym: [L.lapidatus, p. p. of lapidare, fr. lapis
stone.]

Defn: To stone. [Obs.]

LAPIDATION
Lap`i*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. lapidatio: cf. F. lapidation.]

Defn: The act of stoning. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

LAPIDEOUS
La*pid"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. lapideus, fr. lapis stone.]

Defn: Of the nature of stone; [Obs.] Ray.

LAPIDESCENCE
Lap`i*des"cence, n.

1. The state or quality of being lapidescent.

2. A hardening into a stone substance.

3. A stony concretion. Sir T. Browne.

LAPIDESCENT
Lap`i*des"cent, a. Etym: [L. lapidescens, p. pr. of lapidescere to
become stone, fr. lapis, -idis, stone: cf. F. lapidescent.]

Defn: Undergoing the process of becoming stone; having the capacity
of being converted into stone; having the quality of petrifying
bodies.

LAPIDESCENT
Lap"i*des"cent, n.

Defn: Any substance which has the quality of petrifying other bodies,
or of converting or being converted into stone.

LAPIDIFIC; LAPIDIFICAL
Lap`i*dif"ic, Lap`i*dif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. lapis, -idis, stone +
facere to make: cf. F. lapidifique.]

Defn: Forming or converting into stone.

LAPIDIFICATION
La*pid`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lapidification.]

Defn: The act or process of lapidifying; fossilization; petrifaction.

LAPIDIFY
La*pid"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lapidified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lapidifying.] Etym: [Cf. f. lapidifier. See Lapidific, and -fy.]

Defn: To convert into stone or stony material; to petrify.

LAPIDIFY
La*pid"i*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become stone or stony

LAPIDIST
Lap"i*dist, n. Etym: [L. lapis, -idis, a stone.]

Defn: A lapidary. Ray.

LAPILLATION
Lap"il*la"tion, n.Etym: [See Lapilli.]

Defn: The state of being, or the act of making, stony.

LAPILLI
La*pil"li, n. pl. Etym: [L. lapillus a little stone, dim. of lapis
stone.] (Min.)

Defn: Volcanic ashes, consisting of small, angular, stony fragments
or particles.

LAPIS
La"pis, n.; pl. Lapides. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A stone. Lapis calaminaris (. Etym: [NL.] (Min.) Calamine.
 -- Lapis infernalis (. Etym: [L.] Fused nitrate of silver; lunar
caustic.

LAPIS LAZULI
La"pis laz"u*li. (Min.)

Defn: An albuminous mineral of a rich blue color. Same as Lazuli,
which see.

LAP-JOINTED
Lap"-joint`ed, a.

Defn: Having a lap joint, or lap joints, as many kinds of woodwork
and metal work.

LAPLANDER
Lap"land*er, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Lapland; -- called also Lapp.

LAPLANDISH
Lap"land*ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lapland.

LAPLING
Lap"ling, n. Etym: [Lap of a garment + ling.]

Defn: One who has been fondled to excess; one fond of ease and
sensual delights; -- a term of contempt.

LAPP
Lapp, n.

Defn: Same as Laplander. Cf. Lapps.

LAPPACEOUS
Lap*pa"ceous, a. Etym: [L. lappaceus burlike, fr. lappa a bur.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Resembling the capitulum of burdock; covered with forked
points.

LAPPER
Lap"per, n. Etym: [From Lap to drink.]

Defn: One who takes up food or liquid with his tongue.

LAPPET
Lap"pet, n. Etym: [Dim. of lap a fold.]

Defn: A small decorative fold or flap, esp, of lace or muslin, in a
garment or headdress. Swift. Lappet moth (Zoöl.), one of several
species of bombycid moths, which have stout, hairy caterpillars, flat
beneath. Two common American species (Gastropacha Americana, and
Tolype velleda) feed upon the apple tree.

LAPPET
Lap"pet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lappeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Lappeting.]

Defn: To decorate with, or as with, a lappet. [R.] Landor.

LAPPIC
Lap"pic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lapland, or the Lapps.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of the Lapps. See Lappish.

LAPPING
Lap"ping, n.

Defn: A kind of machine blanket or wrapping material used by calico
printers. Ure. Lapping engine, Lapping machine (Textile Manuf.), A
machine for forming fiber info a lap. See its Lap, 9.

LAPPISH
Lap"pish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Lapps; Laplandish.
 -- n.

Defn: The language spoken by the Lapps in Lapland. It is related to
the Finnish and Hungarian, and is not an Aryan language.

LAPPONIAN; LAPPONIC
Lap*po"ni*an, Lap*pon"ic, a.

Defn: Laplandish; Lappish.

LAPPS
Lapps, n. pl.; sing. Lapp (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A branch of the Mongolian race, now living in the northern
parts of Norway, Sweden, and the adjacent parts of Russia.

LAPSABLE
Laps"a*ble, a.

Defn: Lapsible. Cudworth.

LAPSE
Lapse, n. Etym: [L. lapsus, fr. labi, p. p. lapsus, to slide, to
fall: cf. F. laps. See Sleep.]

1. A gliding, slipping, or gradual falling; an unobserved or
imperceptible progress or passing away,; -- restricted usually to
immaterial things, or to figurative uses.
The lapse to indolence is soft and imperceptible. Rambler.
Bacon was content to wait the lapse of long centuries for his
expected revenue of fame. I. Taylor.

2. A slip; an error; a fault; a failing in duty; a slight deviation
from truth or rectitude.
To guard against those lapses and failings to which our infirmities
daily expose us. Rogers.

3. (Law)

Defn: The termination of a right or privilege through neglect to
exercise it within the limited time, or through failure of some
contingency; hence, the devolution of a right or privilege.

4. (Theol.)

Defn: A fall or apostasy.

LAPSE
Lapse, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lapsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lapsing.]

1. To pass slowly and smoothly downward, backward, or away; to slip
downward, backward, or away; to glide; -- mostly restricted to
figurative uses.
A tendency to lapse into the barbarity of those northern nations from
whom we are descended. Swift.
Homer, in his characters of Vulcan and Thersites, has lapsed into the
burlesque character. Addison.

2. To slide or slip in moral conduct; to fail in duty; to fall from
virtue; to deviate from rectitude; to commit a fault by inadvertence
or mistake.
To lapse in fullness Is sorer than to lie for need. Shak.

3. (Law)
(a) To fall or pass from one proprietor to another, or from the
original destination, by the omission, negligence, or failure of some
one, as a patron, a legatee, etc.
(b) To become ineffectual or void; to fall.
If the archbishop shall not fill it up within six months ensuing, it
lapses to the king. Ayliffe.

LAPSE
Lapse, v. t.

1. To let slip; to permit to devolve on another; to allow to pass.
An appeal may be deserted by the appellant's lapsing the term of law.
Ayliffe.

2. To surprise in a fault or error; hence, to surprise or catch, as
an offender. [Obs.]
For which, if be lapsed in this place, I shall pay dear. Shak.

LAPSED
Lapsed, a.

1. Having slipped downward, backward, or away; having lost position,
privilege, etc., by neglect; -- restricted to figurative uses.
Once more I will renew His lapsed powers, though forfeit. Milton.

2. Ineffectual, void, or forfeited; as, a lapsed policy of insurance;
a lapsed legacy. Lapsed devise, Lapsed legacy (Law), a devise, or
legacy, which fails to take effect in consequence of the death of the
devisee, or legatee, before that of the testator, or for ether cause.
Wharton (Law Dict.).

LAPSIBLE
Laps"i*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to lapse.

LAPSIDED
Lap"sid`ed, a.

Defn: See Lopsided.

LAPSTONE
Lap"stone`, n.

Defn: A stone for the lap, on which shoemakers beat leather.

LAPSTREAK; LAPSTRAKE
Lap"streak`, Lap"strake`, a.

Defn: Made with boards whose edges lap one over another; clinker-
built; -- said of boats.

LAPUTAN
La*pu"tan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Laputa, an imaginary flying island
described in Gulliver's Travels as the home of chimerical
philosophers. Hence, fanciful; preposterous; absurd in science or
philosophy. "Laputan ideas." G. Eliot.

LAP-WELDED
Lap"-weld`ed, a

Defn: Having edges or ends united by a lap weld; as, a lap-welded
pipe.

LAPWING
Lap"wing`, n. Etym: [OE.lapwynke, leepwynke, AS. hleápewince; hleápan
to leap, jump + (prob.) a word akin to AS. wincian to wink, E. wink,
AS. wancol wavering; cf. G. wanken to stagger, waver. See Leap, and
Wink.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European bird of the Plover family (Vanellus cristatus,
or V. vanellus). It has long and broad wings, and is noted for its
rapid, irregular fight, upwards, downwards, and in circles. Its back
is coppery or greenish bronze. Its eggs are the "plover's eggs" of
the London market, esteemed a delicacy. It is called also peewit,
dastard plover, and wype. The gray lapwing is the Squatarola cinerea.

LAPWORK
Lap"work`, n.

Defn: Work in which one part laps over another. Grew.

LAQUAY
Laq"uay, n.

Defn: A lackey. [Obs.] Evelyn.

LAQUEAR
La"que*ar, n.; pl. Laquearia. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)

Defn: A lacunar.

LAQUEARY
Laq"ue*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. laqueus a noose.]

Defn: Using a noose, as a gladiator. [Obs. or R.]
Retiary and laqueary combatants. Sir T. Browne.

LAR
Lar, n.; pl. Lares, sometimes Lars. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: A tutelary deity; a deceased ancestor regarded as a protector
of the family. The domestic Lares were the tutelar deities of a
house; household gods. Hence, Eng.: Hearth or dwelling house.
Nor will she her dear Lar forget, Victorious by his benefit.
Lovelace.
The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint. Milton.
Looking backward in vain toward their Lares and lands. Longfellow.

LAR
Lar, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of gibbon (Hylobates lar), found in Burmah. Called
also white-handed gibbon.

LARAMIE GROUP
Lar"a*mie group`. (Geol.)

Defn: An extensive series of strata, principally developed in the
Rocky Mountain region, as in the Laramie Mountains, and formerly
supposed to be of the Tertiary age, but now generally regarded as
Cretaceous, or of intermediate and transitional character. It
contains beds of lignite, often valuable for coal, and is hence also
called the lignitic group. See Chart of Geology.

LARBOARD
Lar"board`, n. Etym: [Lar- is of uncertain origin, possibly the same
as lower, i. e., humbler in rank, because the starboard side is
considered by mariners as higher in rank; cf. D. laag low, akin to E.
low. See Board, n., 8.] (Naut.)

Defn: The left-hand side of a ship to one on board facing toward the
bow; port; -- opposed to Ant: starboard.

Note: Larboard is a nearly obsolete term, having been superseded by
port to avoid liability of confusion with starboard, owing to
similarity of sound.

LARBOARD
Lar"board`, a.

Defn: On or pertaining to the left-hand side of a vessel; port; as,
the larboard quarter.

LARCENER; LARCENIST
Lar"ce*ner, Lar"ce*nist, n.

Defn: One who commits larceny.

LARCENOUS
Lar"ce*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. OE. larrecinos. See Larceny.]

Defn: Having the character of larceny; as, a larcenous act;
committing larceny. "The larcenous and burglarious world." Sydney
Smith.
 -- Lar"ce*nous*ly, adv.

LARCENY
Lar"ce*ny, n.; pl. Larcenies. Etym: [F. larcin, OE. larrecin, L.
latrocinium, fr. latro robber, mercenary, hired servant; cf. Gr.
(Latrociny.] (Law)

Defn: The unlawful taking and carrying away of things personal with
intent to deprive the right owner of the same; theft. Cf.
Embezzlement. Grand larceny and Petit larceny are distinctions having
reference to the nature or value of the property stolen. They are
abolished in England.
 -- Mixed, or Compound, larceny, that which, under statute, includes
in it the aggravation of a taking from a building or the person.
 -- Simple larceny, that which is not accompanied with any
aggravating circumstances.

LARCH
Larch, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. larege (Cotgrave), It.larice, Sp. larice,
alerce, G. lärche; all fr. L. larix, -icis, Gr. ( (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of coniferous trees, having deciduous leaves, in
fascicles (see Illust. of Fascicle).

Note: The European larch is Larix Europæa. The American or black
larch is L. Americana, the hackmatack or tamarack. The trees are
generally of a drooping, graceful appearance.

LARCHEN
Larch"en, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the larch. Keats.

LARD
Lard, n. Etym: [F., bacon, pig's fat, L. lardum, laridum; cf. Gr. (

1. Bacon; the flesh of swine. [Obs.] Dryden.

2. The fat of swine, esp. the internal fat of the abdomen; also, this
fat melted and strained. Lard oil, an illuminating and lubricating
oil expressed from lard.
 -- Leaf lard, the internal fat of the hog, separated in leaves or
masses from the kidneys, etc.; also, the same melted.

LARD
Lard, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Larded; p. pr. & vb. n. Larding.] Etym: [F.
larder. See Lard, n.]

1. To stuff with bacon; to dress or enrich with lard; esp., to insert
lardons of bacon or pork in the surface of, before roasting; as, to
lard poultry.
And larded thighs on loaded altars laid. Dryden.

2. To fatten; to enrich.
[The oak] with his nuts larded many a swine. Spenser.
Falstaff sweats to death. And lards the lean earth as he walks along.
Shak.

3. To smear with lard or fat.
In his buff doublet larded o'er with fat Of slaughtered brutes.
Somerville.

4. To mix or garnish with something, as by way of improvement; to
interlard. Shak.
Let no alien Sedley interpose To lard with wit thy hungry Epsom
prose. Dryden.

LARD
Lard, v. i.

Defn: To grow fat. [Obs.]

LARDACEIN
Lar`da*ce"in, n. Etym: [See Lardaceous.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar amyloid substance, colored blue by iodine and
sulphuric acid, occurring mainly as an abnormal infiltration into the
spleen, liver, etc.

LARDACEOUS
Lar*da"ceous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lardacé.]

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, lard. Lardaceous degeneration
(Med.), amyloid degeneration.

LARDER
Lard"er, n. Etym: [OF. lardier. See Lard, n.]

Defn: A room or place where meat and other articles of food are kept
before they are cooked. Shak.

LARDERER
Lard"er*er, n.

Defn: One in charge of the larder.

LARDERY
Lard"er*y, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. larderie.]

Defn: A larder. [Obs.]

LARDON; LARDOON
Lar"don, Lar*doon", n. Etym: [F. lardon, fr. lard lard.]

Defn: A bit of fat pork or bacon used in larding.

LARDRY
Lard"ry, n. Etym: [See Lardery.]

Defn: A larder. [Obs.]

LARDY
Lard"y, a.

Defn: Containing, or resembling, lard; of the character or
consistency of lard.

LARE
Lare, n. Etym: [See Lore.]

Defn: Lore; learning. [Obs.]

LARE
Lare, n.

Defn: Pasture; feed. See Lair. [Obs.] Spenser.

LARE
Lare, v. t.

Defn: To feed; to fatten. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

LARES
La"res, n. pl.

Defn: See 1st Lar.

LARGE
Large, a. [Compar. Larger; superl. Largest.] Etym: [F., fr. L.
largus. Cf. Largo.]

1. Exceeding most other things of like in bulk, capacity, quantity,
superficial dimensions, or number of constituent units; big; great;
capacious; extensive; -- opposed to small; as, a nlarge horse; a
large house or room; a large lake or pool; a large jug or spoon; a
large vineyard; a large army; a large city.

Note: For linear dimensions, and mere extent, great, and not large,
is used as a qualifying word; as, great length, breadth, depth; a
great distance; a great height.

2. Abundant; ample; as, a large supply of provisions.
We hare yet large day. Milton.

3. Full in statement; diffuse; full; profuse.
I might be very large upon the importance and advantages of
education. Felton.

4. Having more than usual power or capacity; having broad sympathies
and generous impulses; comprehensive; -- said of the mind and heart.

5. Free; unembarrassed. [Obs.]
Of burdens all he set the Paynims large. Fairfax.

6. Unrestrained by decorum; -- said of language. [Obs.] "Some large
jests he will make." Shak.

7. Prodigal in expending; lavish. [Obs.] Chaucer.

8. (Naut.)

Defn: Crossing the line of a ship's course in a favorable direction;
-- said of the wind when it is abeam, or between the beam and the
quarter. At large. (a) Without restraint or confinement; as, to go at
large; to be left at large. (b) Diffusely; fully; in the full extent;
as, to discourse on a subject at large.
 -- Common at large. See under Common, n.
 -- Electors at large, Representative at large, electors, or a
representative, as in Congress, chosen to represent the whole of a
State, in distinction from those chosen to represent particular
districts in a State. [U. S.] -- To give, go, run, or sail large
(Naut.), to have the wind crossing the direction of a vessel's course
in such a way that the sails feel its full force, and the vessel
gains its highest speed. See Large, a., 8.

Syn.
 -- Big; bulky; huge; capacious; comprehensive; ample; abundant;
plentiful; populous; copious; diffusive; liberal.

LARGE
Large, adv.

Defn: Freely; licentiously. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LARGE
Large, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A musical note, formerly in use, equal to two longs, four
breves, or eight semibreves.

LARGE-ACRED
Large"-a`cred, a.

Defn: Possessing much land.

LARGE-HANDED
Large"-hand`ed, a.

Defn: Having large hands, Fig.: Taking, or giving, in large
quantities; rapacious or bountiful.

LARGE-HEARTED
Large"-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Having a large or generous heart or disposition; noble;
liberal.
 -- Large"-heart`ed*ness, n.

LARGELY
Large"ly, adv.

Defn: In a large manner. Dryden. Milton.

LARGENESS
Large"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being large.

LARGESS; LARGESSE
Lar"gess, Lar"gesse, n. Etym: [F. largesse, fr. large. See Large, a.]

1. Liberality; generosity; bounty. [Obs.]
Fulfilled of largesse and of all grace. Chaucer.

2. A present; a gift; a bounty bestowed.
The heralds finished their proclamation with their usual cry of
"Largesse, largesse, gallant knights!" and gold and silver pieces
were showered on them from the galleries. Sir W. Scott.

LARGET
Lar"get, n. Etym: [Cf. F. larget.]

Defn: A sport piece of bar iron for rolling into a sheet; a small
billet.

LARGHETTO
Lar*ghet"to, a. & adv. Etym: [It., dim. of largo largo.] (Mus.)

Defn: Somewhat slow or slowly, but not so slowly as largo, and rather
more so than andante.

LARGIFICAL
Lar*gif"i*cal, a. Etym: [L. largificus; largus large + facere.]

Defn: Generous; ample; liberal. [Obs.]

LARGIFLUOUS
Lar*gif"lu*ous, a. Etym: [L. largifiuus; large abundantly + fluere to
flow.]

Defn: Flowing copiously. [Obs.]

LARGILOQUENT
Lar*gil"o*quent, a. Etym: [Cf. L. largiloquus.]

Defn: Grandiloquent. [Obs.]

LARGISH
Lar"gish, a.

Defn: Somewhat large. [Colloq.]

LARGITION
Lar*gi"tion, Etym: [L. largitio, fr. largiri, p. p. largitus, to give
bountifully.]

Defn: The bestowment of a largess or gift. [Obs.]

LARGO
Lar"go, a. & adv. Etym: [It., large, L. largus, See Large.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slow or slowly; -- more so than adagio; next in slowness to
grave, which is also weighty and solemn.
 -- n.

Defn: A movement or piece in largo time.

LARIAT
Lar"i*at, n. Etym: [Sp. la reata the rope; la the + reata rope. Cf.
Reata.]

Defn: A long, slender rope made of hemp or strips of hide, esp. one
with a noose; -- used as a lasso for catching cattle, horses, etc.,
and for picketing a horse so that he can graze without wandering.
[Mexico & Western U.S.]

LARIAT
Lar"i*at, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lariated; p. pr. & vb. n. Lariating.]

Defn: To secure with a lariat fastened to a stake, as a horse or mule
for grazing; also, to lasso or catch with a lariat. [Western U.S.]

LARINE
La"rine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Gull family (Laridæ).

LARIXINIC
Lar`ix*in"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, or derived from, the larch (Larix); as, larixinic acid.

LARK
Lark, n. Etym: [Perh fr. AS. lac play, sport. Cf. Lake, v. i.]

Defn: A frolic; a jolly time. [Colloq.] Dickens.

LARK
Lark, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Larked; p. pr. & vb. n. Larking.]

Defn: To sport; to frolic. [Colloq.]

LARK
Lark, n. Etym: [OE. larke, laverock, AS. lawerce; akin to D.
leeuwerik, LG. lewerke, OHG. l, G. lerche, Sw. lärka, Dan. lerke,
Icel. lævirki.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one numerous species of singing birds of the genus Alauda
and allied genera (family Alaudidæ). They mostly belong to Europe,
Asia, and Northern Africa. In America they are represented by the
shore larks, or horned by the shore larks, or horned larks, of the
genus Otocoris. The true larks have holaspidean tarsi, very long hind
claws, and usually, dull, sandy brown colors.

Note: The European skylark, or lark of the poets (Alauda arvensis),
is of a brown mottled color, and is noted for its clear and sweet
song, uttered as it rises and descends almost perpendicularly in the
air. It is considered a table delicacy, and immense numbers are
killed for the markets. Other well-known European species are the
crested, or tufted, lark (Alauda cristata), and the wood lark (A.
arborea). The pipits, or titlarks, of the genus Anthus (family
Motacillidæ) are often called larks. See Pipit. The American meadow
larks, of the genus Sturnella, are allied to the starlings. See
Meadow Lark. The Australian bush lark is Mirafra Horsfieldii. See
Shore lark. Lark bunting (Zoöl.), a fringilline bird (Calamospiza
melanocorys) found on the plains of the Western United States.
 -- Lark sparrow (Zoöl.), a sparrow (Chondestes grammacus), found in
the Mississippi Valley and the Western United States.

LARK
Lark, v. i.

Defn: To catch larks; as, to go larking.

LARK-COLORED
Lark"-col`ored, a.

Defn: Having the sandy brown color of the European larks.

LARKER
Lark"er, n. Etym: [See 3d Lark, for sense 1, and 1st Lark, for sense
2.]

1. A catcher of larks.

2. One who indulges in a lark or frolic. [Colloq.]

LARK'S-HEEL
Lark's"-heel`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Indian cress.

LARKSPUR
Lark"spur, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Delphinium), having showy
flowers, and a spurred calyx. They are natives of the North Temperate
zone. The commonest larkspur of the gardens is D. Consolida. The
flower of the bee larkspur (D. elatum) has two petals bearded with
yellow hairs, and looks not unlike a bee.

LARMIER
Lar"mi*er, n. Etym: [F., fr. larme tear, drop, L. lacrima. See
Lachrymose.] (Anat.)

Defn: See Tearpit.

LAROID
La"roid, a. Etym: [Larus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the Gull family (Laridæ).

LARRIKIN
Lar"ri*kin, n. [Cf. E. dial. larrikin  a mischievous or frolicsome
youth, larrick lively, careless, larack to trolic, to romp.]

Defn: A rowdy street loafer; a rowdyish or noisy ill-bred fellow; --
variously applied, as to a street blackguard, a street Arab, a youth
given to horse-play, etc. [Australia & Eng.] -- a.

Defn: Rowdy; rough; disorderly. [Australia & Eng.]

Mobs of unruly larrikins.
Sydney Daily Telegraph.

 Larrikin is often popularly explained by the following anecdote
(which is without foundation): An Irish policeman at Melbourne, on
bringing a notorious rough into court, was asked by the magistrate
what the prisoner had been doing, and replied, "He was a-larrikin'
[i. e., a-larking] about the streets."

LARRUP
Lar"rup, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Larruped; p. pr. & vb. n. Larruping.]
Etym: [Perh, a corrupt. of lee rope, used by sailors in beating the
boys; but cf. D. larpen to thresh, larp a whip, blow.]

Defn: To beat or flog soundly. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Forby.

LARRY
Lar"ry, n.

Defn: Same as Lorry, or Lorrie.

LARUM
Lar"um

Defn: , See Alarum, and Alarm.

LARVA
Lar"va, n.; pl. L. Larvæ, E. Larvas. Etym: [L. larva ghost, specter,
mask.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any young insect from the time that it hatches from the egg
until it becomes a pupa, or chrysalis. During this time it usually
molts several times, and may change its form or color each time. The
larvæ of many insects are much like the adults in form and habits,
but have no trace of wings, the rudimentary wings appearing only in
the pupa stage. In other groups of insects the larvæ are totally
unlike the parents in structure and habits, and are called
caterpillars, grubs, maggots, etc.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The early, immature form of any animal when more or less of a
metamorphosis takes place, before the assumption of the mature shape.

LARVAL
Lar"val, a. Etym: [L. larvalis ghostly. See Larva.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a larva.

LARVALIA
Lar*va"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Larval.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Tunicata, including Appendicularia, and allied
genera; -- so called because certain larval features are retained by
them through life. Called also Copelata. See Appendicularia.

LARVATE
Lar"vate, a. [L. larva mask.]

Defn: Masked; hence, concealed; obscure; -- applied in medicine to
doubtful cases of some diseases; as, larvate pneumonis; larvate
epilepsy.

LARVATED
Lar"va*ted, a. Etym: [L.larvatus bewitched. See Larva.]

Defn: Masked; clothed as with a mask.

LARVE
Larve, n.; pl.Larves. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A larva.

LARVIFORM
Lar"vi*form, a. Etym: [Larva + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the form or structure of a larva.

LARVIPAROUS
Lar*vip"a*rous, a. Etym: [Larva + L. parete to bring forth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Depositing living larvæ, instead of eggs; -- said of certain
insects.

LARY
La"ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lare sea gull, L. larus a sort of sea bird,
Gr. (

Defn: A guillemot; -- called also lavy. [Prov. Eng.]

LARYNGEAL
Lar`yn*ge"al, a. Etym: [From Larynx.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the larynx; adapted to operations on the
larynx; as, laryngeal forceps.

LARYNGEAN
Lar`yn*ge"an, a.

Defn: See Laryngeal.

LARYNGECTOMY
Lar`yn*gec"to*my, n.  [Larynx + Gr.  to cut out.] (Surg.)

Defn: Excision of the larynx.

LARYNGISMUS
Lar`yn*gis"mus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Larynx.] (Med.)

Defn: A spasmodic state of the glottis, giving rise to contraction or
closure of the opening.

LARYNGITIS
Lar`yn*gi"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Larynx, and -tis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the larynx.

LARYNGOGRAPH
La*ryn"go*graph, n.  [larynx + -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for recording the larynx movements in speech.

LARYNGOLOGICAL
La*ryn`go*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to laryngology.

LARYNGOLOGIST
Lar`yn*gol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who applies himself to laryngology.

LARYNGOLOGY
Lar`yn*gol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Larynx + -logy.]

Defn: Systematized knowledge of the action and functions of the
larynx; in pathology, the department which treats of the diseases of
the larynx.

LARYNGOPHONY
Lar`yn*goph"o*ny, n. Etym: [Larynx + Gr. (

Defn: The sound of the voice as heard through a stethoscope when the
latter is placed upon the larynx.

LARYNGOSCOPE
La*ryn"go*scope, n. Etym: [Larynx + -scope.] (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument, consisting of an arrangement of two mirrors, for
reflecting light upon the larynx, and for examining its image.

LARYNGOSCOPIC
La*ryn`go*scop"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the inspection of the larynx.

LARYNGOSCOPIST
Lar`yn*gos"co*pist, n.

Defn: One skilled in laryngoscopy.

LARYNGOSCOPY
Lar`yn*gos"co*py, n.

Defn: The art of using the laryngoscope; investigations made with the
laryngoscope.

LARYNGOTOME
La*ryn"go*tome, n. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for performing laryngotomy.

LARYNGOTOMY
Lar`yn*got"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (laryngotomie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of cutting into the larynx, from the outside of
the neck, for assisting respiration when obstructed, or for removing
foreign bodies.

LARYNGOTRACHEAL
La*ryn`go*tra"che*al, a. Etym: [Larynx + tracheal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to both larynx and trachea; as, the laryngotracheal
cartilage in the frog.

LARYNGOTRACHEOTOMY
La*ryn`go*tra`che*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Larynx + tracheotomy.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of cutting into the larynx and the upper part of
the trachea, -- a frequent operation for obstruction to breathing.

LARYNX
Lar"ynx, n. [ (Anat.)

Defn: The expanded upper end of the windpipe or trachea, connected
with the hyoid bone or cartilage. It contains the vocal cords, which
produce the voice by their vibrations, when they are stretched and a
current of air passes between them. The larynx is connected with the
pharynx by an opening, the glottis, which, in mammals, is protected
by a lidlike epiglottis.

Note: In the framework of the human larynx, the thyroid cartilage,
attached to the hyoid bone, makes the protuberance on the front of
the neck known as Adam's apple, and is articulated below to the
ringlike cricoid cartilage. This is narrow in front and high behind,
where, within the thyroid, it is surmounted by the two arytenoid
cartilages, from which the vocal cords pass forward to be attached
together to the front of the thyroid. See Syrinx.

LAS
Las, n.

Defn: A lace. See Lace. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAS
Las, a. & adv.

Defn: Less. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LASCAR
Las"car, n. Etym: [Per. & Hind. lashkar an army, an inferior
artillery man, a cooly, a native sailor.]

Defn: A native sailor, employed in European vessels; also, a menial
employed about arsenals, camps, camps, etc.; a camp follower. [East
Indies]

LASCIOUS
Las"ci*ous, a.

Defn: Loose; lascivious. [Obs.] "To depaint lascious wantonness."
Holland.

LASCIVIENCY
Las*civ"i*en*cy, n. Etym: [See Lascivient.]

Defn: Lasciviousness; wantonness. [Obs.]

LASCIVIENT
Las*civ"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. lasciviens, pr. of lascivire to be
wanton, fr. lascivus. See Lascivious.]

Defn: Lascivious. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

LASCIVIOUS
Las*civ"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. lascivia wantonness, fr. lascivus wanton;
cf. Gr. (lash to desire.]

1. Wanton; lewd; lustful; as, lascivious men; lascivious desires.
Milton.

2. Tending to produce voluptuous or lewd emotions.
He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber To the lascivious pleasing of a
lute. Shak.
-- Las*civ"i*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Las*civ"i*ous*ness, n.

LASERWORT
La"ser*wort`, n. Etym: [L.laser the juice of the laserwort.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Laserpitium, of several
species (as L. glabrum, and L. siler), the root of which yields a
resinous substance of a bitter taste. The genus is mostly European.

LASH
Lash, n. Etym: [OE. lasche; cf. D. lasch piece set in, joint, seam,
G. lashe latchet, a bit of leather, gusset, stripe, laschen to
furnish with flaps, to lash or slap, Icel. laski gusset, flap, laska
to break.]

1. The thong or braided cord of a whip, with which the blow is given.
I observed that your whip wanted a lash to it. Addison.

2. A leash in which an animal is caught or held; hence, a snare.
[Obs.]

3. A stroke with a whip, or anything pliant and tough; as, the
culprit received thirty-nine lashes.

4. A stroke of satire or sarcasm; an expression or retort that cuts
or gives pain; a cut.
The moral is a lash at the vanity of arrogating that to ourselves
which succeeds well. L'Estrange.

5. A hair growing from the edge of the eyelid; an eyelash.

6. In carpet weaving, a group of strings for lifting simultaneously
certain yarns, to form the figure.

LASH
Lash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lashng.]

1. To strike with a lash ; to whip or scourge with a lash, or with
something like one.
We lash the pupil, and defraud the ward. Dryden.

2. To strike forcibly and quickly, as with a lash; to beat, or beat
upon, with a motion like that of a lash; as, a whale lashes the sea
with his tail.
And big waves lash the frighted shores. Dryden.

3. To throw out with a jerk or quickly.
He falls, and lashing up his heels, his rider throws. Dryden.

4. To scold; to berate; to satirize; to censure with severity; as, to
lash vice.

LASH
Lash

Defn: ,. v. i. To ply the whip; to strike; to uttercensure or
sarcastic language.
To laugh at follies, or to lash at vice. Dryden.
To lash out, to strike out wildly or furiously.

LASH
Lash, v. t. Etym: [Cf. D. lasschen to fasten together, lasch piece,
joint, Sw. laska to stitch, Dan. laske stitch. See Lash, n. ]

Defn: To bind with a rope, cord, thong, or chain, so as to fasten;
as, to lash something to a spar; to lash a pack on a horse's back.

LASHER
Lash"er, n.

Defn: One who whips or lashes.

LASHER
Lash"er, n.

1. A piece of rope for binding or making fast one thing to another; -
- called also lashing.

2. A weir in a river. [Eng.] Halliwell.

LASHING
Lash"ing, n.

Defn: The act of one who, or that which, lashes; castigation;
chastisement. South. Lashing out, a striking out; also, extravagance.

LASHING
Lash"ing, n.

Defn: See 2d Lasher.

LASK
Lask, n.

Defn: A diarrhea or flux. [Obs.] Holland.

LASKET
Las"ket, n. Etym: [Cf. Lash, Latching.] (Naut.)

Defn: latching.

LASS
Lass, n. Etym: [OE. lasse; prob. of Celtic origin; cf. W. llodes
girl, fem. of llawd lad. (Lad a youth.]

Defn: A youth woman; a girl; a sweetheart.

LASSE
Lasse, a. & adv.

Defn: Less. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LASSIE
Las"sie, n.

Defn: A young girl; a lass. [Scot.]

LASSITUDE
Las"si*tude, n. Etym: [L. lassitudo, fr. lassus faint, weary; akin to
E. late: cf. F. lassitude. See Late.]

Defn: A condition of the body, or mind, when its voluntary functions
are performed with difficulty, and only by a strong exertion of the
will; languor; debility; weariness.
The corporeal instruments of action being strained to a high pitch .
. . will soon feel a lassitude. Barrow.

LASSLORN
Lass"lorn`, a.

Defn: Forsaken by a lass. Shak.

LASSO
Lass"o (lâs"so) n.; pl. Lassos (-soz). Etym: [Sp. lazo, L. laqueus.
See Lace.]

Defn: A rope or long thong of leather with, a running noose, used for
catching horses, cattle, etc. Lasso cell (Zoöl.), one of a peculiar
kind of defensive and offensive stinging cells, found in great
numbers in all coelenterates, and in a few animals of other groups.
They are most highly developed in the tentacles of jellyfishes,
hydroids, and Actiniæ. Each of these cells is filled with, fluid, and
contains a long, slender, often barbed, hollow thread coiled up
within it. When the cell contracts the thread is quickly ejected,
being at the same time turned inside out. The thread is able to
penetrate the flesh of various small, soft-bodied animals, and
carries a subtle poison by which they are speedily paralyzed and
killed. The threads, at the same time, hold the prey in position,
attached to the tentacles. Some of the jellyfishes, as the Portuguese
man-of-war, and Cyanea, are able to penetrate the human skin, and
inflict painful stings in the same way. Called also nettling cell,
cnida, cnidocell.

LASSO
Las"so, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lassoed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lassoing.]

Defn: To catch with a lasso.

LAST
Last, 3d pers. sing. pres.

Defn: of Last, to endure, contracted from lasteth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAST
Last (, a. Etym: [OE. last, latst, contr. of latest, superl. of late;
akin to OS. lezt, lazt, last, D. laatst, G. letzt. See Late, and cf.
Latest.]

1. Being after all the others, similarly classed or considered, in
time, place, or order of succession; following all the rest; final;
hindmost; farthest; as, the last year of a century; the last man in a
line of soldiers; the last page in a book; his last chance.
Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in the
book of the law of God. Neh. viii. 18.
Fairest of stars, last in the train of night. Milton.

2. Next before the present; as, I saw him last week.

3. Supreme; highest in degree; utmost.
Contending for principles of the last importance. R. Hall
.

4. Lowest in rank or degree; as, the last prize. Pope.

5. Farthest of all from a given quality, character, or condition;
most unlikely; having least fitness; as, he is the last person to be
accused of theft.

At last, at the end of a certain period; after delay. "The duke of
Savoy felt that the time had at last arrived." Motley.
 -- At the last. Etym: [Prob. fr. AS. on laste behind, following
behind, fr. last race, track, footstep. See Last mold of the foot.]
At the end; in the conclusion. [Obs.] "Gad, a troop shall overcome
him; but he shall overcome at the last." Gen. xlix. 19.
 -- Last heir, the person to whom lands escheat for want of an heir.
[Eng.] Abbott.
 -- On one's last legs, at, or near, the end of one's resources;
hence, on the verge of failure or ruin, especially in a financial
sense. [Colloq.] -- To breathe one's last, to die.
 -- To the last, to the end; till the conclusion.
And blunder on in business to the last. Pope.

Syn.
 -- At Last, At Length. These phrases both denote that some delayed
end or result has been reached. At length implies that a long period
was spent in so doing; as, after a voyage of more than three months,
we at Length arrived safe. At last commonly implies that something
has occurred (as interruptions, disappointments, etc.) which leads us
to emphasize the idea of having reached the end; as, in spite of
every obstacle, we have at last arrived.

LAST
Last, adv. Etym: [See Last, a.]

1. At a time or on an occasion which is the latest of all those
spoken of or which have occurred; the last time; as, I saw him last
in New York.

2. In conclusion; finally.lastly
Pleased with his idol, he commends, admires, Adores; and, last, the
thing adored desires. Dryden.

3. At a time next preceding the present time.
How long is't now since last yourself and I Were in a mask Shak.

LAST
Last, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Lasting.] Etym:
[OE. lasten, As. læstan to perform, execute, follow, last, continue,
fr. last, l, trace, footstep, course; akin to G. leisten to perform,
Goth. laistjan to follow. See Last mold of the foot.]

1. To continue in time; to endure; to remain in existence.
[I] proffered me to be slave in all that she me would ordain while my
life lasted. Testament of Love.

2. To endure use, or continue in existence, without impairment or
exhaustion; as, this cloth lasts better than that; the fuel will last
through the winter.

LAST
Last, n. Etym: [AS. lasttrace, track, footstep; akin to D. leest a
last, G. leisten, Sw. läst, Dan. læst, Icel. leistr the foot below
the ankle, Goth. laists track, way; from a root signifying, to go.
Cf. Last, v. i., Learn, Delirium.]

Defn: A wooden block shaped like the human foot, on which boots and
shoes are formed.
The cobbler is not to go beyond his last. L'Estrange.
Darning last, a smooth, hard body, often egg-shaped, put into a
stocking to preserve its shape in darning.

LAST
Last, v. t.

Defn: To shape with a last; to fasten or fit to a last; to place
smoothly on a last; as, to last a boot.

LAST
Last, n. Etym: [As. hlæst, fr. hladan to lade; akin to OHG. hlast,
G., D., Dan., & Sw. last: cf. F. laste, last, a last, of German or
Dutch origin. See Lade.]

1. A load; a heavy burden; hence, a certain weight or measure,
generally estimated at 4,000 lbs., but varying for different articles
and in different countries. In England, a last of codfish, white
herrings, meal, or ashes, is twelve barrels; a last of corn, ten
quarters, or eighty bushels, in some parts of England, twenty-one
quarters; of gunpowder, twenty-four barrels, each containing 100 lbs;
of red herrings, twenty cades, or 20,000; of hides, twelve dozen; of
leather, twenty dickers; of pitch and tar, fourteen barrels; of wool,
twelve sacks; of flax or feathers, 1,700 lbs.

2. The burden of a ship; a cargo.

LASTAGE
Last"age n. Etym: [E. lestage ballasting, fr. lest ballast, or LL.
lastagium, lestagium. See Last a load.]

1. A duty exacted, in some fairs or markets, for the right to carry
things where one will. [Obs.]

2. A tax on wares sold by the last. [Obs.] Cowell.

3. The lading of a ship; also, ballast. Spelman.

4. Room for stowing goods, as in a ship.

LASTE
Last"e, obs. imp.

Defn: of Last, to endure. Chaucer.

LASTER
Last"er, n.

Defn: A workman whose business it is to shape boots or shoes, or
place leather smoothly, on lasts; a tool for stretching leather on a
last.