

LASTERY
Last"er*y, n.

Defn: A red color.[Obs.] Spenser.

LASTING
Last"ing, a.

Defn: Existing or continuing a long while; enduring; as, a lasting
good or evil; a lasting color.

Syn.
 -- Durable; permanent; undecaying; perpetual; unending.
 -- Lasting, Permanent, Durable. Lasting commonly means merely
continuing in existence; permanent carries the idea of continuing in
the same state, position, or course; durable means lasting in spite
of agencies which tend to destroy.

LASTING
Last"ing, n.

1. Continuance; endurance. Locke.

2. A species of very durable woolen stuff, used for women's shoes;
everlasting.

3. The act or process of shaping on a last.

LASTING
Last"ing, adv.

Defn: In a lasting manner.

LASTINGLY
Last"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lasting manner.

LASTLY
Last"ly, adv.

1. In the last place; in conclusion.

2. at last; finally.

LAT
Lat, v. t.

Defn: To let; to allow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LATA; LATAH
La"ta, La"tah, n. [Malay.]

Defn: A convulsive tic or hysteric neurosis prevalent among Malays,
similar to or identical with miryachit and jumping disease, the
person affected performing various involuntary actions and making
rapid inarticulate ejaculations in imitation of the actions and words
of another person.

LATAKIA
Lat`a*ki"a, n. Etym: [Turk.]

Defn: A superior quality of Turkish smoking tobacco, so called from
the place where produced, the ancient Laodicea.

LATCH
Latch, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. lécher to lick (of German origin). Cf.
Lick.]

Defn: To smear; to anoint. [Obs.] Shak.

LATCH
Latch, n. Etym: [OE. lacche, fr. lacchen to seize, As. læccan.]

1. That which fastens or holds; a lace; a snare. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

2. A movable piece which holds anything in place by entering a notch
or cavity; specifically, the catch which holds a door or gate when
closed, though it be not bolted.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A latching.

4. A crossbow. [Obs.] Wright.

LATCH
Latch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Latched; p. pr. & vb. n. Latching.] Etym:
[OE.lacchen. See Latch. n.]

1. To catch so as to hold. [Obs.]
Those that remained threw darts at our men, and latching our darts,
sent them again at us. Golding.

2. To catch or fasten by means of a latch.
The door was only latched. Locke.

LATCHET
Latch"et, n. Etym: [OE. lachet, from an OF. dialect form of F. lacet
plaited string, lace dim. of lacs. See Lace.]

Defn: The string that fastens a shoe; a shoestring.

LATCHING
Latch"ing, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A loop or eye formed on the head rope of a bonnet, by which it
is attached to the foot of a sail; -- called also latch and lasket.
[Usually in pl.]

LATCHKEY
Latch"key`, n.

Defn: A key used to raise, or throw back, the latch of a door, esp. a
night latch.

LATCHSTRING
Latch"string`, n.

Defn: A string for raising the latch of a door by a person outside.
It is fastened to the latch and passed through a hole above it in the
door. To find the latchstring out, to meet with hospitality; to be
welcome. (Intrusion is prevented by drawing in the latchstring.)
[Colloq. U.S.]

LATE
Late, a. [Compar. Later, or latter (; superl. Latest.] Etym: [OE. lat
slow, slack, As.læt; akin to Os. lat, D. laat late, G. lass weary,
lazy, slack, Icel. latr, Sw. lat, Dan. lad, Goth. lats, and to E.
let, v. See Let to permit, and cf. Alas, Lassitude.]

1. Coming after the time when due, or after the usual or proper time;
not early; slow; tardy; long delayed; as, a late spring.

2. Far advanced toward the end or close; as, a late hour of the day;
a late period of life.

3. Existing or holding some position not long ago, but not now;
lately deceased, departed, or gone out of office; as, the late bishop
of London; the late administration.

4. Not long past; happening not long ago; recent; as, the late rains;
we have received late intelligence.

5. Continuing or doing until an advanced hour of the night; as, late
revels; a late watcher.

LATE
Late, adv. Etym: [AS. late. See Late, a.]

1. After the usual or proper time, or the time appointed; after
delay; as, he arrived late; -- opposed to early.

2. Not long ago; lately.

3. Far in the night, day, week, or other particular period; as, to
lie abed late; to sit up late at night. Of late, in time not long
past, or near the present; lately; as, the practice is of late
uncommon.
 -- Too late, after the proper or available time; when the time or
opportunity is past.

LATED
Lat"ed, a.

Defn: Belated; too late. [Obs.] Shak.

LATEEN
La*teen", a. (Naut.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a peculiar rig used in the Mediterranean
and adjacent waters, esp. on the northern coast of Africa. See below.
Lateen sail. Etym: [F. voile latine a sail in the shape of a right-
angled triangle; cf. It. & Sp. vela latina; properly Latin sail. See
Latin.] (Naut.) A triangular sail, extended by a long yard, which is
slung at about one fourth of its length from the lower end, to a low
mast, this end being brought down at the tack, while the other end is
elevated at an angle or about forty-five degrees; -- used in small
boats, feluccas, xebecs, etc., especially in the Mediterranean and
adjacent waters. Some lateen sails have also a boom on the lower
side.

LATELY
Late"ly, adv.

Defn: Not long ago; recently; as, he has lately arrived from Italy.

LATENCE
La"tence, n.

Defn: Latency. Coleridge.

LATENCY
La"ten*cy, n. Etym: [See Latent.]

Defn: The state or quality of being latent.
To simplify the discussion, I shall distinguish three degrees of this
latency. Sir W. Hamilton.

LATENESS
Late"ness, n.

Defn: The state, condition, or quality, of being late; as, the
lateness of his arrival; the lateness of the hour; the lateness of
the season.

LATENT
La"tent, a. Etym: [L. latens, -entis, p. pr. of latere to lie hid or
concealed; cf. Gr. lethargy: cf. F.latent.]

Defn: Not visible or apparent; hidden; springs of action.
The evils latent in the most promising contrivances are provided for
as they arise. Burke.
Latent buds (bot.), buds which remain undeveloped or dormant for a
long time, but may at length grow. Latent heat (Physics), that
quantity of heat which disappears or becomes concealed in a body
while producing some change in it other than rise of temperature, as
fusion, evaporation, or expansion, the quantity being constant for
each particular body and for each species of change.
 -- Latent period. (a) (Med.) The regular time in which a disease is
supposed to be existing without manifesting itself. (b) (Physiol.)
One of the phases in a simple muscular contraction, in which
invisible preparatory changes are taking place in the nerve and
muscle. (c) (Biol.) One of those periods or resting stages in the
development of the ovum, in which development is arrested prior to
renewed activity.

LATENTLY
La"tent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a secret or concealed manner; invisibly.

LATER
La"ter, n.; pl. Lateres. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A brick or tile. Knight.

LATER
Lat"er, a.

Defn: Compar. of Late, a. & adv.

LATERAD
Lat"er*ad, adv. Etym: [L. latus, lateris, side + ad to.] (Anat.)

Defn: Toward the side; away from the mesial plane; -- opposed to
mesiad.

LATERAL
Lat"er*al, a. Etym: [L. lateralis, fr. latus, lateris, side: cf.
F.latéral.]

1. Of or pertaining to the sides; as, the lateral walls of a house;
the lateral branches of a tree.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Lying at, or extending toward, the side; away from the mesial
plane; external; -- opposed to mesial.

3. Directed to the side; as, a lateral view of a thing. Lateral
cleavage (Crystallog.), cleavage parallel to the lateral planes.
 -- Lateral equation (Math.), an equation of the first degree. [Obs.]
-- Lateral line (Anat.), in fishes, a line of sensory organs along
either side of the body, often marked by a distinct line of color.
 -- Lateral pressure or stress (Mech.), a pressure or stress at right
angles to the length, as of a beam or bridge; -- distinguished from
longitudinal pressure or stress.
 -- Lateral strength (Mech.), strength which resists a tendency to
fracture arising from lateral pressure.
 -- Lateral system (Bridge Building), the system of horizontal braces
(as between two vertical trusses) by which lateral stiffness is
secured.

LATERALITY
Lat`er*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being lateral.

LATERALLY
Lat"er*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By the side; sidewise; toward, or from, the side.

LATERAN
Lat"er*an, n.

Defn: The church and palace of St. John Lateran, the church being the
cathedral church of Rome, and the highest in rank of all churches in
the Catholic world.

Note: The name is said to have been derived from that of the Laterani
family, who possessed a palace on or near the spot where the church
now stands. In this church several ecclesiastical councils, hence
called Lateran councils, have been held.

LATERED
Lat"ered, a.

Defn: Inclined to delay; dilatory. [Obs.] "When a man is too
latered." Chaucer.

LATERIFOLIOUS
Lat`er*i*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. latus, lateris, side + folium leaf:
cf. F. latérifolié.] (Bot.)

Defn: Growing from the stem by the side of a leaf; as, a
laterifolious flower.

LATERITE
Lat"er*ite, n. Etym: [L. later brick, tile: cf. F. latérite.] (Geol.)

Defn: An argillaceous sandstone, of a red color, and much seamed; --
found in India.

LATERITIC
Lat`er*it"ic, a.

Defn: consisting of, containing, or characterized by, laterite; as,
lateritic formations.

LATERITIC
Lat`er*it"ic, a.

Defn: Consisting of, containing, or characterized by, laterite; as,
lateritic formations.

LATERITIOUS
Lat"er*i"tious, a. Etym: [L.lateritius, fr. later a brick.]

Defn: Like bricks; of the color of red bricks. Lateritious sediment
(Med.), a sediment in urine resembling brick dust, observed after the
crises of fevers, and at the termination of gouty paroxysms. It
usually consists of uric acid or urates with some coloring matter.

LATES
La"tes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of large percoid fishes, of which one species (Lates
Niloticus) inhabits the Nile, and another (L. calcarifer

LATESCENCE
La*tes"cence, n.

Defn: A slight withdrawal from view or knowledge. Sir W. Hamilton.

LATESCENT
La*tes"cent, a. Etym: [L. latescens, -entis, p. pr. of latescere to
be concealed, fr. latere to be hid.]

Defn: Slightly withdrawn from view or knowledge; as, a latescent
meaning. Sir W. Hamilton.

LATEWAKE
Late"wake`, n.

Defn: See Lich wake, under Lich.

LATEWARD
Late"ward, a. & adv.

Defn: Somewhat late; backward. [Obs.] "Lateward lands." Holland.

LATEX
La"tex, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A milky or colored juice in certain plants in cavities (called
latex cells or latex tubes). It contains the peculiar principles of
the plants, whether aromatic, bitter, or acid, and in many instances
yields caoutchouc upon coagulation.

LATH
Lath, n.; pl. Laths. Etym: [OE. laththe, latthe, latte, AS. lætta;
akin to D. lat, G. latte, OHG. latta; cf. W. llath a rod, staff,
yard. Cf. Lattice, Latten.]

Defn: A thin, narrow strip of wood, nailed to the rafters, studs, or
floor beams of a building, for the purpose of supporting the tiles,
plastering, etc. A corrugated metallic strip or plate is sometimes
used. Lath brick, a long, slender brick, used in making the floor on
which malt is placed in the drying kiln. Lath nail a slender nail for
fastening laths.

LATH
Lath, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lathed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lathing.]

Defn: To cover or line with laths.

LATHE
Lathe, n. Etym: [AS.læedh. Of. uncertain origin.]

Defn: Formerly, a part or division of a county among the Anglo-
Saxons. At present it consists of four or five hundreds, and is
confined to the county of Kent. [Written also lath.] Brande & C.

LATHE
Lathe, n. Etym: [OE. lathe a granary; akin to G. lade a chest, Icel.
hlaedha a storehouse, barn; but cf. also Icel. löedh a smith's lathe.
Senses 2 and 3 are perh. of the same origin as lathe a granary, the
original meaning being, a frame to hold something. If so, the word is
from an older form of E. lade to load. See Lade to load.]

1. A granary; a barn. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A machine for turning, that is, for shaping articles of wood,
metal, or other material, by causing them to revolve while acted upon
by a cutting tool.

3. The movable swing frame of a loom, carrying the reed for
separating the warp threads and beating up the weft; -- called also
lay and batten. Blanchard lathe, a lathe for turning irregular forms
after a given pattern, as lasts, gunstocks, and the like.
 -- Drill lathe, or Speed lathe, a small lathe which, from its high
speed, is adapted for drilling; a hand lathe.
 -- Engine lathe, a turning lathe in which the cutting tool has an
automatic feed; -- used chiefly for turning and boring metals,
cutting screws, etc.
 -- Foot lathe, a lathe which is driven by a treadle worked by the
foot.
 -- Geometric lathe. See under Geometric -- Hand lathe, a lathe
operated by hand; a power turning lathe without an automatic feed for
the tool.
 -- Slide lathe, an engine lathe.
 -- Throw lathe, a small lathe worked by one hand, while the cutting
tool is held in the other.

LATHER
Lath"er, n. Etym: [AS. leáedhor niter, in leáedhorwyrt soapwort; cf.
Icel. lau; perh. akin to E. lye.]

1. Foam or froth made by soap moistened with water.

2. Foam from profuse sweating, as of a horse.

LATHER
Lath"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lathered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lathering.]
Etym: [AS. leedhrian to lather, anoint. See Lather, n. ]

Defn: To spread over with lather; as, to lather the face.

LATHER
Lath"er, v. i.

Defn: To form lather, or a froth like lather; to accumulate foam from
profuse sweating, as a horse.

LATHER
Lath"er, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Leather.]

Defn: To beat severely with a thong, strap, or the like; to flog.
[Low]

LATHEREEVE; LATHREEVE
Lathe"reeve`, Lath"reeve`, n.

Defn: Formerly, the head officer of a lathe. See 1st Lathe.

LATHING
Lath"ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of covering with laths; laths, collectively;
a covering of laths.

LATH-SHAPED
Lath"-shaped`, a.

Defn: Having a slender elongated form, like a lath; -- said of the
feldspar of certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as seen in microscopic
sections.

LATHWORK
Lath"work`, n.

Defn: Same as Lathing.

LATHY
Lath"y, a.

Defn: Like a lath; long and slender.
A lathy horse, all legs and length. R. Browning.

LATIAN
La"tian, a.

Defn: Belonging, or relating, to Latium, a country of ancient Italy.
See Latin.

LATIBULIZE
La*tib"u*lize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Latibulized (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Latibulizing.] Etym: [L. latibulum hiding place, fr. latere to lie
hid.]

Defn: To retire into a den, or hole, and lie dormant in winter; to
retreat and lie hid. [R.] G. Shaw.

LATIBULUM
La*tib"u*lum, n; pl. Latibula. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A concealed hiding place; a burrow; a lair; a hole.

LATICIFEROUS
Lat`i*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. latex, laticis, a liquid + -ferous.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Containing the latex; -- applied to the tissue or tubular
vessels in which the latex of the plant is found.

LATICLAVE
Lat"i*clave, n. Etym: [L. laticlavus, laticlavium; latus broad +
clavus nail, a purple stripe on the tunica: cf. F. laticlave.] (Rom.
Antiq.)

Defn: A broad stripe of purple on the fore part of the tunic, worn by
senators in ancient Rome as an emblem of office.

LATICOSTATE
Lat`i*cos"tate, a. Etym: [L. latus broad + E. costate.]

Defn: Broad-ribbed.

LATIDENTATE
Lat`i*den"tate, a. Etym: [L. latus broad + E. dentate.]

Defn: Broad-toothed.

LATIFOLIATE; LATIFOLIOUS
Lat`i*fo"li*ate, Lat`i*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. latifolius; latus
broad + folium leaf: cf. F. latifolié.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having broad leaves.

LATIGO
La"ti*go, n. [Sp. látigo.]

Defn: A strap for tightening a saddle girth. [Western U. S. & Sp.
Amer.]

LATIGO HALTER
La"ti*go hal"ter.

Defn: A kind of halter usually made of raw hide.

LATIMER
Lat"i*mer, n. Etym: [OF. latinier, latimier, prop., one knowing
Latin.]

Defn: An interpreter. [Obs.] Coke.

LATIN
Lat"in, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. Latinus belonging to Latium, Latin, fr.
Latium a country of Italy, in which Rome was situated. Cf. Ladin,
Lateen sail, under Lateen.]

1. Of or pertaining to Latium, or to the Latins, a people of Latium;
Roman; as, the Latin language.

2. Of, pertaining to, or composed in, the language used by the Romans
or Latins; as, a Latin grammar; a Latin composition or idiom. Latin
Church (Eccl. Hist.), the Western or Roman Catholic Church, as
distinct from the Greek or Eastern Church.
 -- Latin cross. See Illust. 1 of Cross.
 -- Latin races, a designation sometimes loosely given to certain
nations, esp. the French, Spanish, and Italians, who speak languages
principally derived from Latin. Latin Union, an association of
states, originally comprising France, Belgium, Switzerland, and
Italy, which, in 1865, entered into a monetary agreement, providing
for an identity in the weight and fineness of the gold and silver
coins of those countries, and for the amounts of each kind of coinage
by each. Greece, Servia, Roumania, and Spain subsequently joined the
Union.

LATIN
Lat"in, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Latium; a Roman.

2. The language of the ancient Romans.

3. An exercise in schools, consisting in turning English into Latin.
[Obs.] Ascham.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: A member of the Roman Catholic Church. (Dog Latin, barbarous
Latin; a jargon in imitation of Latin; as, the log Latin of
schoolboys.
 -- Late Latin, Low Latin, terms used indifferently to designate the
latest stages of the Latin language; low Latin (and, perhaps, late
Latin also), including the barbarous coinages from the French,
German, and other languages into a Latin form made after the Latin
had become a dead language for the people.
 -- Law Latin, that kind of late, or low, Latin, used in statutes and
legal instruments; -- often barbarous.

LATIN
Lat"in, v. t.

Defn: To write or speak in Latin; to turn or render into Latin.
[Obs.] Fuller.

LATINISM
Lat"in*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. latinisme.]

Defn: A Latin idiom; a mode of speech peculiar to Latin; also, a mode
of speech in another language, as English, formed on a Latin model.

Note: The term is also sometimes used by Biblical scholars to
designate a Latin word in Greek letters, or the Latin sense of a
Greek word in the Greek Testament.

LATINIST
Lat"in*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. latiniste.]

Defn: One skilled in Latin; a Latin scholar. Cowper.
He left school a good Latinist. Macaulay.

LATINISTIC
Lat`in*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, Latin; in the Latin style
or idiom. "Latinistic words." Fitzed. Hall.

LATINITASTER
La*tin"i*tas`ter, n. Etym: [Cf. Poetaster.]

Defn: One who has but a smattering of Latin. Walker.

LATINITY
La*tin"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. latinitas: cf. F. latinité.]

Defn: The Latin tongue, style, or idiom, or the use thereof;
specifically, purity of Latin style or idiom. "His eleLatinity."
Motley.

LATINIZATION
Lat`in*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of Latinizing, as a word, language, or
country.
The Germanization of Britain went far deeper than the Latinization of
France. M. Arnold.

LATINIZE
Lat"in*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Latinized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Latinizing.] Etym: [L. latinizare: cf. F.latiniser.]

1. To give Latin terminations or forms to, as to foreign words, in
writing Latin.

2. To bring under the power or influence of the Romans or Latins; to
affect with the usages of the Latins, especially in speech.
"Latinized races." Lowell.

3. To make like the Roman Catholic Church or diffuse its ideas in;
as, to Latinize the Church of England.

LATINIZE
Lat"in*ize, v. i.

Defn: To use words or phrases borrowed from the Latin. Dryden.

2. To come under the influence of the Romans, or of the Roman
Catholic Church.

LATINLY
Lat"in*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of the Latin language; in correct Latin. [Obs.]
Heylin.

LATION
La"tion, n. Etym: [L. latio, fr. latus borne. See Tolerate.]

Defn: Transportation; conveyance. [Obs.]

LATIROSTRAL; LATIROSTROUS
Lat`i*ros"tral, Lat`i*ros"trous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. latirostre. See
Latirostres.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a broad beak. Sir T. Browne.

LATIROSTRES
Lat`i*ros"tres, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. latus broad + rostrum
beak.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The broad-billed singing birds, such as the swallows, and their
allies.

LATISH
Lat"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat late. [Colloq.]

LATISTERNAL
Lat`i*ster"nal, a. Etym: [L. latus broad + E. sternal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a broad breastbone, or sternum; -- said of anthropoid
apes.

LATITANCY
Lat"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [See Latitant.]

Defn: Act or state of lying hid, or lurking. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

LATITANT
Lat"i*tant, a. Etym: [L. latitans, pr. of latitare to lie hid, to
lurk, v. intens. fr. latere to be hid: cf. F. latitant.]

Defn: Lying hid; concealed; latent. [R.]

LATITAT
Lat"i*tat, n. Etym: [L., he lies hid.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A writ based upon the presumption that the person summoned was
hiding. Blackstone.

LATITATION
Lat`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. latitatio.]

Defn: A lying in concealment; hiding. [Obs.]

LATITUDE
Lat"i*tude, n. Etym: [F. latitude, L. latitudo, fr. latus broad,
wide, for older stlatus; perh. akin to E. strew.]

1. Extent from side to side, or distance sidewise from a given point
or line; breadth; width.
Provided the length do not exceed the latitude above one third part.
Sir H. Wotton.

2. Room; space; freedom from confinement or restraint; hence,
looseness; laxity; independence.
In human actions there are no degrees and precise natural limits
described, but a latitude is indulged. Jer. Taylor.

3. Extent or breadth of signification, application, etc.; extent of
deviation from a standard, as truth, style, etc.
No discreet man will believe Augustine's miracles, in the latitude of
monkish relations. Fuller.

4. Extent; size; amplitude; scope.
I pretend not to treat of them in their full latitude. Locke.

5. (Geog.)

Defn: Distance north or south of the equator, measured on a meridian.

6. (Astron.)

Defn: The angular distance of a heavenly body from the ecliptic.
Ascending latitude, Circle of latitude, Geographical latitude, etc.
See under Ascending. Circle, etc.
 -- High latitude, that part of the earth's surface near either pole,
esp. that part within either the arctic or the antarctic circle.
 -- Low latitude, that part of the earth's surface which is near the
equator.

LATITUDINAL
Lat`i*tu"di*nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to latitude; in the direction of latitude.

LATITUDINARIAN
Lat`i*tu`di*na"ri*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. latitudinaire.]

1. Not restrained; not confined by precise limits.

2. Indifferent to a strict application of any standard of belief or
opinion; hence, deviating more or less widely from such standard; lax
in doctrine; as, latitudinarian divines; latitudinarian theology.
Latitudinarian sentiments upon religious subjects. Allibone.

3. Lax in moral or religious principles.

LATITUDINARIAN
Lat`i*tu`di*na"ri*an, n.

1. One who is moderate in his notions, or not restrained by precise
settled limits in opinion; one who indulges freedom in thinking.

2. (Eng. Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A member of the Church of England, in the time of Charles II.,
who adopted more liberal notions in respect to the authority,
government, and doctrines of the church than generally prevailed.
They were called "men of latitude;" and upon this, men of narrow
thoughts fastened upon them the name of latitudinarians. Bp. Burnet.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: One who departs in opinion from the strict principles of
orthodoxy.

LATITUDINARIANISM
Lat`i*tu`di*na"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: A latitudinarian system or condition; freedom of opinion in
matters pertaining to religious belief.
Fierce sectarianism bred fierce latitudinarianism. De Quincey.
He [Ammonius Saccas] plunged into the wildest latitudinarianism of
opinion. J. S. Harford.

LATITUDINOUS
Lat`i*tu"di*nous, a.

Defn: Having latitude, or wide extent.

LATON; LATOUN
Lat"on, Lat"oun, n.

Defn: Latten, 1. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LATRANT
La"trant, a. Etym: [L. latrans, p. pr. of latrare. See Latrate.]

Defn: Barking. [Obs.] Tickell.

LATRATE
La"trate, v. i. Etym: [L. latratus, p. p. of latrare to bark.]

Defn: To bark as a dog. [Obs.]

LATRATION
La*tra"tion, n.

Defn: A barking. [Obs.]

LATREUTICAL
La*treu"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Acting as a hired servant; serving; ministering; assisting. [Obs.]

2. Of or pertaining to latria. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

LATRIA
La*tri"a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: The highest kind of worship, or that paid to God; --
distinguished by the Roman Catholics from dulia, or the inferior
worship paid to saints.

LATRINE
La*trine", n. Etym: [L. latrina: cf. F. latrines.]

Defn: A privy, or water-closet, esp. in a camp, hospital, etc.

LATROCINY
Lat"ro*cin`y, n. Etym: [L. latrocinium. Cf. Larceny.]

Defn: Theft; larceny. [Obs.]

LATTEN
Lat"ten, n. Etym: [OE. latoun, laton, OF. laton, F. laiton, prob. fr.
OF. late lath, F. latte; -- because made in thin plates; cf. It.
latta a sheet of tinned iron, tin plate. F. latte is of German
origin. See Lath a thin board.]

1. A kind of brass hammered into thin sheets, formerly much used for
making church utensils, as candlesticks, crosses, etc.; -- called
also latten brass.
He had a cross of latoun full of stones. Chaucer.

2. Sheet tin; iron plate, covered with tin; also, any metal in thin
sheets; as, gold latten. Black latten, brass in milled sheets,
composed of copper and zinc, used by braziers, and for drawing into
wire.
 -- Roll latten, latten polished on both sides ready for use.
 -- Shaven latten, a thinner kind than black latten.
 -- White latten, a mixture of brass and tin.

LATTER
Lat"ter, a. Etym: [OE. later, lætter, compar. of lat late. See Late,
and cf. Later.]

1. Later; more recent; coming or happening after something else; --
opposed to former; as, the former and latter rain.

2. Of two things, the one mentioned second.
The difference between reason and revelation, and in what sense the
latter is superior. I. Watts.

3. Recent; modern.
Hath not navigation discovered in these latter ages, whole nations at
the bay of Soldania Locke.

4. Last; latest; final. [R.] "My latter gasp." Shak. Latter harvest,
the last part of the harvest.
 -- Latter spring, the last part of the spring of the year. Shak.

LATTERDAY
Lat"ter*day`, a.

Defn: Belonging to present times or those recent by comparison.

LATTER-DAY SAINT
Lat"ter-day` saint".

Defn: A Mormon; -- the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
being the name assumed by the whole body of Mormons.

LATTERKIN
Lat"ter*kin, n.

Defn: A pointed wooden tool used in glazing leaden lattice.

LATTERLY
Lat"ter*ly, adv.

Defn: Lately; of late; recently; at a later, as distinguished from a
former, period.
Latterly Milton was short and thick. Richardson.

LATTERMATH
Lat"ter*math, n. Etym: [Cf. Aftermath.]

Defn: The latter, or second, mowing; the aftermath.

LATTICE
Lat"tice, n. Etym: [OE. latis, F. lattis lathwork, fr. latte lath.
See Latten, 1st Lath.]

1. Any work of wood or metal, made by crossing laths, or thin strips,
and forming a network; as, the lattice of a window; -- called also
latticework.
The mother of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried through the
lattice. Judg. v. 28.

2. (Her.)

Defn: The representation of a piece of latticework used as a bearing,
the bands being vertical and horizontal. Lattice bridge, a bridge
supported by lattice girders, or latticework trusses.
 -- Lattice girder (Arch.), a girder of which the wed consists of
diagonal pieces crossing each other in the manner of latticework.
 -- Lattice plant (Bot.), an aquatic plant of Madagascar (Ouvirandra
fenestralis), whose leaves have interstices between their ribs and
cross veins, so as to resemble latticework. A second species is O.
Berneriana. The genus is merged in Aponogeton by recent authors.

LATTICE
Lat"tice, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Latticed; p. pr. & vb. n. Latticing.]

1. To make a lattice of; as, to lattice timbers.

2. To close, as an opening, with latticework; to furnish with a
lattice; as, to lattice a window. To lattice up, to cover or inclose
with a lattice.
Therein it seemeth he [Alexander] hath latticed up Cæsar. Sir T.
North.

LATTICEWORK
Lat"tice*work`, n.

Defn: Same as Lattice, n., 1.

LATTICING
Lat"ti*cing, n.

1. The act or process of making a lattice of, or of fitting a lattice
to.

2. (Bridge Building)

Defn: A system of bars crossing in the middle to form braces between
principal longitudinal members, as of a strut.

LATUS RECTUM
La"tus rec"tum. Etym: [L., the right side.] (Conic Sections)

Defn: The line drawn through a focus of a conic section parallel to
the directrix and terminated both ways by the curve. It is the
parameter of the principal axis. See Focus, and Parameter.

LAUD
Laud, n. Etym: [L. laus, laudis. See Laud, v. i.]

1. High commendation; praise; honor; exaltation; glory. "Laud be to
God." Shak.
So do well and thou shalt have laud of the same. Tyndals.

2. A part of divine worship, consisting chiefly of praise; -- usually
in the pl.

Note: In the Roman Catholic Church, the prayers used at daybreak,
between those of matins and prime, are called lauds.

3. Music or singing in honor of any one.

LAUD
Laud, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lauded; p. pr. & vb. n. Lauding.] Etym:
[L.laudare, fr. laus, laudis, praise. Cf. Allow.]

Defn: To praise in words alone, or with words and singing; to
celebrate; to extol.
With all the company of heaven, we laud and magnify thy glorious
name. Book of Common Prayer.

LAUDABILITY
Laud`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. laudabilitas.]

Defn: Laudableness; praiseworthiness.

LAUDABLE
Laud"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. laudabilis: cf. OE. laudable. See Laud, v.
i.]

1. Worthy of being lauded; praiseworthy; commendable; as, laudable
motives; laudable actions; laudable ambition.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Healthy; salubrious; normal; having a disposition to promote
healing; not noxious; as, laudable juices of the body; laudable pus.
Arbuthnot.

LAUDABLENESS
Laud"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being laudable; praiseworthiness;
commendableness.

LAUDABLY
Laud"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a laudable manner.

LAUDANINE
Lau"da*nine, n. Etym: [From Laudanum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white organic base, resembling morphine, and obtained from
certain varieties of opium.

LAUDANUM
Lau"da*num, n. Etym: [Orig. the same wort as ladanum, ladbdanum: cf.
F. laudanum, It. laudano, ladano. See Ladanum.]

Defn: Tincture of opium, used for various medical purposes.

Note: A fluid ounce of American laudanum should contain the soluble
matter of one tenth of an ounce avoirdupois of powdered opium with
equal parts of alcohol and water. English laudanum should have ten
grains less of opium in the fluid ounce. U. S. Disp. Dutchman's
laudanum (Bot.) See under Dutchman.

LAUDATION
Lau*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. laudatio: cf. OE. taudation. See Land, v.
t.]

Defn: The act of lauding; praise; high commendation.

LAUDATIVE
Laud"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. laudativus laudatory: cf. F. laudatif.]

Defn: Laudatory.

LAUDATIVE
Laud"a*tive, n.

Defn: A panegyric; a eulogy. [Obs.] Bacon.

LAUDATOR
Lau*da"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who lauds.

2. (Law)

Defn: An arbitrator. [Obs.] Cowell.

LAUDATORY
Laud"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. laudatorius: cf. OF. laudatoire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining praise, or to the expression of praise; as,
laudatory verses; the laudatory powers of Dryden. Sir J. Stephen.

LAUDER
Laud"er, n.

Defn: One who lauds.

LAUGH
Laugh, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Laughed; p. pr. & vb. n. Laughing.] Etym:
[OE. laughen, laghen, lauhen, AS. hlehhan, hlihhan, hlyhhan,
hliehhan; akin to OS. hlahan, D. & G.lachen, OHG. hlahhan, lahhan,
lahh, Icel. hlæja. Dan. lee, Sw. le, Goth. hlahjan; perh. of
imitative origin.]

1. To show mirth, satisfaction, or derision, by peculiar movement of
the muscles of the face, particularly of the mouth, causing a
lighting up of the face and eyes, and usually accompanied by the
emission of explosive or chuckling sounds from the chest and throat;
to indulge in laughter.
Queen Hecuba laughed that her eyes ran o'er. Shak.
He laugheth that winneth. Heywood's Prov.

2. Fig.: To be or appear gay, cheerful, pleasant, mirthful, lively,
or brilliant; to sparkle; to sport.
Then laughs the childish year, with flowerets crowned. Dryden.
In Folly's cup still laughs the bubble Joy. Pope.
To laugh at, to make an object of laughter or ridicule; to make fun
of; to deride.
No wit to flatter left of all his store, No fool to laugh at, which
he valued more. Pope.
-- To laugh in the sleeve, to laugh secretly, or so as not to be
observed, especially while apparently preserving a grave or serious
demeanor toward the person or persons laughed at.
 -- To laugh out, to laugh in spite of some restraining influence; to
laugh aloud.
 -- To laugh out of the other corner (or side) of the mouth, to weep
or cry; to feel regret, vexation, or disappointment after hilarity or
exaltation. [Slang]

LAUGH
Laugh, v. t.

1. To affect or influence by means of laughter or ridicule.
Will you laugh me asleep, for I am very heavy Shak.
I shall laugh myself to death. Shak.

2. To express by, or utter with, laughter; -- with out.
From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause. Shak.
To laugh away. (a) To drive away by laughter; as, to laugh away
regret. (b) To waste in hilarity. "Pompey doth this day laugh away
his fortune." Shak.
 -- To laugh down. (a) To cause to cease or desist by laughter; as,
to laugh down a speaker. (b) To cause to be given up on account of
ridicule; as, to laugh down a reform.
 -- To laugh one out of, to cause one by laughter or ridicule to
abandon or give up; as, to laugh one out of a plan or purpose.
 -- To laugh to scorn, to deride; to treat with mockery, contempt,
and scorn; to despise.

LAUGH
Laugh, n.

Defn: An expression of mirth peculiar to the human species; the sound
heard in laughing; laughter. See Laugh, v. i.
And the loud laugh that spoke the vacant mind. Goldsmith.
That man is a bad man who has not within him the power of a hearty
laugh. F. W. Robertson.

LAUGHABLE
Laugh"a*ble, a.

Defn: Fitted to excite laughter; as, a laughable story; a laughable
scene.

Syn.
 -- Droll; ludicrous; mirthful; comical. See Droll, and Ludicrous.
 -- Laugh"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Laugh"a*bly, adv.

LAUGHER
Laugh"er, n.

1. One who laughs.

2. A variety of the domestic pigeon.

LAUGHING
Laugh"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Laugh, v. i. Laughing falcon (Zoöl.), a South American
hawk (Herpetotheres cachinnans); -- so called from its notes, which
resemble a shrill laughing.
 -- Laughing gas (Chem.), hyponitrous oxide, or protoxide of
nitrogen; -- so called from the exhilaration and laughing which it
sometimes produces when inhaled. It is much used as an anæsthetic
agent.
 -- Laughing goose (Zoöl.), the European white-fronted goose.
 -- Laughing gull. (Zoöl.) (a) A common European gull (Xema
ridibundus); -- called also pewit, black cap, red-legged gull, and
sea crow. (b) An American gull (Larus atricilla). In summer the head
is nearly black, the back slate color, and the five outer primaries
black.
 -- Laughing hyena (Zoöl.), the spotted hyena. See Hyena.
 -- Laughing jackass (Zoöl.), the great brown kingfisher (Dacelo
gigas), of Australia; -- called also giant kingfisher, and gogobera.
 -- Laughing owl (Zoöl.), a peculiar owl (Sceloglaux albifacies) of
New Zealand, said to be on the verge of extinction. The name alludes
to its notes.

LAUGHINGLY
Laugh"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With laughter or merriment.

LAUGHINGSTOCK
Laugh"ing*stock`, n.

Defn: An object of ridicule; a butt of sport. Shak.
When he talked, he talked nonsense, and made himself the
laughingstock of his hearers. Macaulay.

LAUGHSOME
Laugh"some, a.

Defn: Exciting laughter; also, addicted to laughter; merry. [R.]

LAUGHTER
Laugh"ter, n. Etym: [AS. hleahtor; akin to OHG. hlahtar, G.
gelächter, Icel. hlatr, Dan. latter. See Laugh, v. i. ]

Defn: A movement (usually involuntary) of the muscles of the face,
particularly of the lips, with a peculiar expression of the eyes,
indicating merriment, satisfaction, or derision, and usually attended
by a sonorous and interrupted expulsion of air from the lungs. See
Laugh, v. i.
The act of laughter, which is a sweet contraction of the muscles of
the face, and a pleasant agitation of the vocal organs, is not
merely, or totally within the jurisdiction of ourselves. Sir T.
Browne.
Archly the maiden smiled, and with eyes overrunning with laughter.
Longfellow.

LAUGHTERLESS
Laugh"ter*less, a.

Defn: Not laughing; without laughter.

LAUGHWORTHY
Laugh"wor`thy, a.

Defn: Deserving to be laughed at. [R.] B. Jonson.

LAUMONTITE
Lau"mont*ite, n. Etym: [From Dr. Laumont, the discoverer.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral, of a white color and vitreous luster. It is a
hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. Exposed to the air, it loses
water, becomes opaque, and crumbles. [Written also laumonite.]

LAUNCE
Launce, n.

Defn: A lance. [Obs.]

LAUNCE
Launce, n. Etym: [It. lance, L. lanx, lancis, plate, scale of a
balance. Cf. Balance.]

Defn: A balance. [Obs.]
Fortune all in equal launce doth sway. Spenser.

LAUNCE
Launce, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Lant, the fish.

LAUNCEGAYE
Launce"gaye`, n.

Defn: See Langegaye. [Obs.]

LAUNCH
Launch, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Launched; p. pr. & vb. n. Launching.]
Etym: [OE. launchen to throw as a lance, OF. lanchier, another form
of lancier, F. lancer, fr. lance lance. See Lance.] [Written also
lanch.]

1. To throw, as a lance or dart; to hurl; to let fly.

2. To strike with, or as with, a lance; to pierce. [Obs.]
Launch your hearts with lamentable wounds. Spenser.

3. To cause to move or slide from the land into the water; to set
afloat; as, to launch a ship.
With stays and cordage last he rigged the ship, And rolled on levers,
launched her in the deep. Pope.

4. To send out; to start (one) on a career; to set going; to give a
start to (something); to put in operation; as, to launch a son in the
world; to launch a business project or enterprise.
All art is used to sink episcopacy, and launch presbytery in England.
Eikon Basilike.

LAUNCH
Launch, v. i.

Defn: To move with force and swiftness like a sliding from the stocks
into the water; to plunge; to make a beginning; as, to launch into
the current of a stream; to launch into an argument or discussion; to
launch into lavish expenditures; -- often with out.
Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. Luke
v. 4.
He [Spenser] launches out into very flowery paths. Prior.

LAUNCH
Launch, n.

1. The act of launching.

2. The movement of a vessel from land into the water; especially, the
sliding on ways from the stocks on which it is built.

3. Etym: [Cf. Sp. lancha.] (Naut.)

Defn: The boat of the largest size belonging to a ship of war; also,
an open boat of any size driven by steam, naphtha, electricity, or
the like. Launching ways. (Naut.) See Way, n. (Naut.).

LAUND
Laund (lalnd), n. Etym: [See Lawn of grass.]

Defn: A plain sprinkled with trees or underbrush; a glade. [Obs.]
In a laund upon an hill of flowers. Chaucer.
Through this laund anon the deer will come. Shak.

LAUNDER
Laun"der, n. Etym: [Contracted fr. OE. lavender, F. lavandière, LL.
lavandena, from L. lavare to wash. See Lave.]

1. A washerwoman. [Obs.]

2. (Mining)

Defn: A trough used by miners to receive the powdered ore from the
box where it is beaten, or for carrying water to the stamps, or other
apparatus, for comminuting, or sorting, the ore.

LAUNDER
Laun"der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Laundered; p. pr. & vb. n. Laundering.]

1. To wash, as clothes; to wash, and to smooth with a flatiron or
mangle; to wash and iron; as, to launder shirts.

2. To lave; to wet. [Obs.] Shak.

LAUNDERER
Laun"der*er, n.

Defn: One who follows the business of laundering.

LAUNDERING
Laun"der*ing, n.

Defn: The act, or occupation, of one who launders; washing and
ironing.

LAUNDRESS
Laun"dress, n.

Defn: A woman whose employment is laundering.

LAUNDRESS
Laun"dress, v. i.

Defn: To act as a laundress.[Obs.]

LAUNDRY
Laun"dry, n.; pl. Laundries. Etym: [OE. lavendrie, OF. lavanderie.
See Launder.]

1. A laundering; a washing.

2. A place or room where laundering is done.

LAUNDRYMAN
Laun"dry*man, n.; pl. Laundrymen (.

Defn: A man who follows the business of laundering.

LAURA
Lau"ra, n. Etym: [LL., fr. Gr. ( (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhood
occupied by anchorites who were under the same superior. C. Kingsley.

LAURACEOUS
Lau*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [From Laurus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a natural order (Lauraceæ) of
trees and shrubs having aromatic bark and foliage, and including the
laurel, sassafras, cinnamon tree, true camphor tree, etc.

LAURATE
Lau"rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of lauric acid.

LAUREATE
Lau"re*ate, a. Etym: [L. laureatus, fr. laurea laurel tree, fr.
laureus of laurel, fr. laurus laurel: cf. F. lauréat. Cf. Laurel.]

Defn: Crowned, or decked, with laurel. Chaucer.
To strew the laureate hearse where Lycid lies. Milton.
Soft on her lap her laureate son reclines. Pope.
Poet laureate. (b) One who received an honorable degree in grammar,
including poetry and rhetoric, at the English universities; -- so
called as being presented with a wreath of laurel. [Obs.] (b)
Formerly, an officer of the king's household, whose business was to
compose an ode annually for the king's birthday, and other suitable
occasions; now, a poet officially distinguished by such honorary
title, the office being a sinecure. It is said this title was first
given in the time of Edward IV. [Eng.]

LAUREATE
Lau"re*ate, n.

Defn: One crowned with laurel; a poet laureate. "A learned laureate."
Cleveland.

LAUREATE
Lau"re*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Laureated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Laureating.]

Defn: To honor with a wreath of laurel, as formerly was done in
bestowing a degree at the English universities.

LAUREATESHIP
Lau"re*ate*ship, n.

Defn: State, or office, of a laureate.

LAUREATION
Lau`re*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lauréation.]

Defn: The act of crowning with laurel; the act of conferring an
academic degree, or honorary title.

LAUREL
Lau"rel, n. Etym: [OE. lorel, laurer, lorer, OF. lorier, laurier, F.
laurier, (assumed) LL. Laurarius, fr. L. laurus.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen shrub, of the genus Laurus (L. nobilis), having
aromatic leaves of a lanceolate shape, with clusters of small,
yellowish white flowers in their axils; -- called also sweet bay.

Note: The fruit is a purple berry. It is found about the
Mediterranean, and was early used by the ancient Greeks to crown the
victor in the games of Apollo. At a later period, academic honors
were indicated by a crown of laurel, with the fruit. The leaves and
tree yield an aromatic oil, used to flavor the bay water of commerce.

Note: The name is extended to other plants which in some respect
resemble the true laurel. See Phrases, below.

2. A crown of laurel; hence, honor; distinction; fame; -- especially
in the plural; as, to win laurels.

3. An English gold coin made in 1619, and so called because the
king's head on it was crowned with laurel. Laurel water, water
distilled from the fresh leaves of the cherry laurel, and containing
prussic acid and other products carried over in the process. American
laurel, or Mountain laurel, Kalmia latifolia. See under Mountain.
 -- California laurel, Umbellularia Californica.
 -- Cherry laurel (in England called laurel). See under Cherry.
 -- Great laurel, the rosebay (Rhododendron maximum).
 -- Ground laurel, trailing arbutus.
 -- New Zealand laurel, Laurelia Novæ Zelandiæ.
 -- Portugal laurel, the Prunus Lusitanica.
 -- Rose laurel, the oleander. See Oleander.
 -- Sheep laurel, a poisonous shrub, Kalmia angustifolia, smaller
than the mountain laurel, and with smaller and redder flowers.
 -- Spurge laurel, Daphne Laureola.
 -- West Indian laurel, Prunus occidentalis.

LAURELED
Lau"reled, a.

Defn: Crowned with laurel, or with a laurel wreath; laureate.
[Written also laurelled.]

LAURENTIAN
Lau*ren"tian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or near, the St. Lawrence River; as, the
Laurentian hills. Laurentian period (Geol.), the lower of the two
divisions of the Archæan age; -- called also the Laurentian.

LAURER
Lau"rer, n.

Defn: Laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAURESTINE
Lau"res*tine, n. Etym: [NL. lautus tinus, fr. L. laurus the laurel +
tinus laurestine. See Laurel.] (Bot.)

Defn: The Viburnum Tinus, an evergreen shrub or tree of the south of
Europe, which flowers during the winter mouths. [Written also
laurustine and laurestina.]

LAURIC
Lau"ric, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the European bay or laurel
(Laurus nobilis). Lauric acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline
substance, C12H24O2, resembling palmitic acid, and obtained from the
fruit of the bay tree, and other sources.

LAURIFEROUS
Lau*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. laurifer; laurus + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Producing, or bringing, laurel.

LAURIN
Lau"rin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. laurine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance extracted from the fruit of the
bay (Laurus nobilis), and consisting of a complex mixture of glycerin
ethers of several organic acids.

LAURINOL
Lau"ri*nol, n. Etym: [Laurin + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Ordinary camphor; -- so called in allusion to the family name
(Lauraceæ) of the camphor trees. See Camphor.

LAURIOL
Lau"ri*ol, n.

Defn: Spurge laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAURITE
Lau"rite, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Min.)

Defn: A rare sulphide of osmium and ruthenium found with platinum in
Borneo and Oregon.

LAURONE
Lau"rone, n. Etym: [Lauric + -one.] (Chem.)

Defn: The ketone of lauric acid.

LAURUS
Lau"rus, n. Etym: [L., laurel.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees including, according to modern authors, only
the true laurel (Laurus nobilis), and the larger L. Canariensis of
Madeira and the Canary Islands. Formerly the sassafras, the camphor
tree, the cinnamon tree, and several other aromatic trees and shrubs,
were also referred to the genus Laurus.

LAUS
Laus, a.

Defn: Loose. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAUTVERSCHIEBUNG
Laut"ver*schie`bung, n.; pl. -schiebungen. [G.; laut sound +
verschiebung shifting.] (Philol.)
 (a) The regular changes which the primitive Indo-European stops, or
mute consonants, underwent in the Teutonic languages, probably as
early as the 3d century b. c. , often called the first
Lautverschiebung, sound shifting, or consonant shifting. (b) A
somewhat similar set of changes taking place in the High German
dialects (less fully in modern literary German) from the 6th to the
8th century, known as the second Lautverschiebung, the result of
which form the striking differences between High German and The Low
German Languages. The statement of these changes is commonly regarded
as forming part of Grimm's law, because included in it as originally
framed.

LAVA
La"va, n. Etym: [It. lava lava, orig. in Naples, a torrent of rain
overflowing the streets, fr. It. & L. lavare to wash. See Lave.]

Defn: The melted rock ejected by a volcano from its top or fissured
sides. It flows out in streams sometimes miles in length. It also
issues from fissures in the earth's surface, and forms beds covering
many square miles, as in the Northwestern United States.

Note: Lavas are classed, according to their structure, as scoriaceous
or cellular, glassy, stony, etc., and according to the material of
which they consist, as doleritic, trachytic, etc. Lava millstone, a
hard and coarse basaltic millstone from the neighborhood of the
Rhine.
 -- Lava ware, a kind of cheap pottery made of iron slag cast into
tiles, urns, table tops, etc., resembling lava in appearance.

LA VALLIERE; LAVALLIERE
La val`liere", or  La`val`liere", n.

Defn: A neck ornament consisting of a chain and single pendant, or
drop.

LAVARET
Lav"a*ret, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European whitefish (Coregonus laveretus), found in the
mountain lakes of Sweden, Germany, and Switzerland.

LAVATIC
La*vat"ic, a.

Defn: Like lava, or composed of lava; lavic.

LAVATION
La*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. lavatio: cf. OF. lavation.]

Defn: A washing or cleansing. [Obs. or R.]

LAVATORY
Lav"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Washing, or cleansing by washing.

LAVATORY
Lav"a*to*ry, n.; pl. Lavatories. Etym: [L. lavatorium: cf. lavatoire.
See Lave to wash, and cf. Laver.]

1. A place for washing.

2. A basin or other vessel for washing in.

3. A wash or lotion for a diseased part.

4. A place where gold is obtained by washing.

LAVATURE
Lav"a*ture, n.

Defn: A wash or lotion. [Obs.]

LAVE
Lave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Laved; p. pr. & vb. n. Laving.] Etym: [F.
laver, L. lavare, akin to luere to wash, Gr. Ablution, Deluge,
Lavender, Lava, Lotion.]

Defn: To wash; to bathe; as, to lave a bruise.
His feet the foremost breakers lave. Byron.

LAVE
Lave, v. i.

Defn: To bathe; to wash one's self.
In her chaste current oft the goddess laves. Pope.

LAVE
Lave, v. t. Etym: [OE. laven. See Lavish.]

Defn: To lade, dip, or pour out. [Obs.] Dryden.

LAVE
Lave, n. Etym: [AS. laf the remainder, what is left. Leave.]

Defn: The remainder; others. [Scot.] Bp. Hall.

LAVE-EARED
Lave"-eared`, a. Etym: [Cf. W. llaf that extends round, llipa
flaccid, flapping, G. lapp flabby, lappohr flap ear.]

Defn: Having large, pendent ears. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

LAVEER
La*veer", v. i. Etym: [D. laveren.] (Naut.)

Defn: To beat against the wind; to tack. [Obs.] Dryden.

LAVEMENT
Lave"ment, n. Etym: [F. lavement, fr. laver to wash.]

Defn: A washing or bathing; also, a clyster.

LAVENDER
Lav"en*der, n. Etym: [OE. lavendre, F. lavande, It. lavanda lavender,
a washing, fr. L. lavare to wash; cf. It. lsavendola, LL. lavendula.
So called because it was used in bathing and washing. See Lave. to
wash, and cf. Lavender.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An aromatic plant of the genus Lavandula (L. vera), common in
the south of Europe. It yields and oil used in medicine and
perfumery. The Spike lavender (L. Spica) yields a coarser oil (oil of
spike), used in the arts.

2. The pale, purplish color of lavender flowers, paler and more
delicate than lilac. Lavender cotton (Bot.), a low, twiggy, aromatic
shrub (Santolina Chamæcyparissus) of the Mediterranean region,
formerly used as a vermifuge, etc., and still used to keep moths from
wardrobes. Also called ground cypress.
 -- Lavender water, a perfume composed of alcohol, essential oil of
lavender, essential oil of bergamot, and essence of ambergris.
 -- Sea lavender. (Bot.) See Marsh rosemary.
 -- To lay in lavender. (a) To lay away, as clothing, with sprigs of
lavender. (b) To pawn. [Obs.]

LAVER
Lav"er, n. Etym: [OE. lavour, F. lavoir, L. lavatorium a washing
place. See Lavatory.]

1. A vessel for washing; a large basin.

2. (Script. Hist.)
(a) A large brazen vessel placed in the court of the Jewish
tabernacle where the officiating priests washed their hands and feet.
(b) One of several vessels in Solomon's Temple in which the offerings
for burnt sacrifices were washed.

3. That which washes or cleanses. J. H. Newman.

LAVER
Lav"er, n. Etym: [From Lave to wash.]

Defn: One who laves; a washer. [Obs.]

LAVER
La"ver, n.

Defn: The fronds of certain marine algæ used as food, and for making
a sauce called laver sauce. Green laver is the Ulva latissima; purlpe
laver, Porphyra laciniata and P. vulgaris. It is prepared by stewing,
either alone or with other vegetables, and with various condiments; -
- called also sloke, or sloakan. Mountain laver (Bot.), a reddish
gelatinous alga of the genus Palmella, found on the sides of
mountains

LAVEROCK
La"ver*ock, n. Etym: [See Lark the bird.]

Defn: The lark. [Old Eng. & Scot.] [Written also lavrock.] Gower.

LAVIC
La"vic, a.

Defn: See Lavatic.

LAVISH
Lav"ish, a. Etym: [Akin to E. lave to lade out; cf. AS. gelafian to
refresh, G. laben.]

1. Expending or bestowing profusely; profuse; prodigal; as, lavish of
money; lavish of praise.

2. Superabundant; excessive; as, lavish spirits.
Let her have needful, but not lavish, means. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Profuse; prodigal; wasteful; extravagant; exuberant; immoderate.
See Profuse.

LAVISH
Lav"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lavished; p. pr. & vb. n. Lavishing.]

Defn: To expend or bestow with profusion; to use with prodigality; to
squander; as, to lavish money or praise.

LAVISHER
Lav"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who lavishes.

LAVISHLY
Lav"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lavish manner.

LAVISHMENT
Lav"ish*ment, n.

Defn: The act of lavishing.

LAVISHNESS
Lav"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being lavish.

LAVOESIUM
La*voe"si*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Lavoisier, the celebrated French
chemist.] (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed new metallic element. It is said to have been
discovered in pyrites, and some other minerals, and to be of a
silver-white color, and malleable.

LAVOLT; LAVOLTA
La*volt", La*vol"ta, n. Etym: [It.la volta the turn, turning, whirl.
Cf. Volt of a horse, Volta.]

Defn: An old dance, for two persons, being a kind of waltz, in which
the woman made a high spring or bound. Shak.

LAVOLTATEER
La*vol`ta*teer", n.

Defn: A dancer of the lavolta.

LAVOUR
Lav"our, n.

Defn: A laver. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LAVROCK
La"vrock, n.

Defn: Same as Laverock.

LAW
Law, n. Etym: [OE. lawe, laghe, AS. lagu, from the root of E. lie:
akin to OS. lag, Icel. lög, Sw. lag, Dan. lov; cf. L. lex, E. legal.
A law is that which is laid, set, or fixed; like statute, fr. L.
statuere to make to stand. See Lie to be prostrate.]

1. In general, a rule of being or of conduct, established by an
authority able to enforce its will; a controlling regulation; the
mode or order according to which an agent or a power acts.

Note: A law may be universal or particular, written or unwritten,
published or secret. From the nature of the highest laws a degree of
permanency or stability is always implied; but the power which makes
a law, or a superior power, may annul or change it.
These are the statutes and judgments and law, which the Lord made.
Lev. xxvi. 46.
The law of thy God, and the law of the King. Ezra vii. 26.
As if they would confine the Interminable . . . Who made our laws to
bind us, not himself. Milton.
His mind his kingdom, and his will his law. Cowper.

2. In morals: The will of God as the rule for the disposition and
conduct of all responsible beings toward him and toward each other; a
rule of living, conformable to righteousness; the rule of action as
obligatory on the conscience or moral nature.

3. The Jewish or Mosaic code, and that part of Scripture where it is
written, in distinction from the gospel; hence, also, the Old
Testament.
What things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the
law . . . But now the righteousness of God without the law is
manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Rom. iii.
19, 21.

4. In human government:
(a) An organic rule, as a constitution or charter, establishing and
defining the conditions of the existence of a state or other
organized community.
(b) Any edict, decree, order, ordinance, statute, resolution,
judicial, decision, usage, etc., or recognized, and enforced, by the
controlling authority.

5. In philosophy and physics: A rule of being, operation, or change,
so certain and constant that it is conceived of as imposed by the
will of God or by some controlling authority; as, the law of
gravitation; the laws of motion; the law heredity; the laws of
thought; the laws of cause and effect; law of self-preservation.

6. In matematics: The rule according to which anything, as the change
of value of a variable, or the value of the terms of a series,
proceeds; mode or order of sequence.

7. In arts, works, games, etc.: The rules of construction, or of
procedure, conforming to the conditions of success; a principle,
maxim; or usage; as, the laws of poetry, of architecture, of
courtesy, or of whist.

8. Collectively, the whole body of rules relating to one subject, or
emanating from one source; -- including usually the writings
pertaining to them, and judicial proceedings under them; as, divine
law; English law; Roman law; the law of real property; insurance law.

9. Legal science; jurisprudence; the principles of equity; applied
justice.
Reason is the life of the law; nay, the common law itself is nothing
else but reason. Coke.
Law is beneficence acting by rule. Burke.
And sovereign Law, that state's collected will O'er thrones and
globes elate, Sits empress, crowning good, repressing ill. Sir W.
Jones.

10. Trial by the laws of the land; judicial remedy; litigation; as,
to go law.
When every case in law is right. Shak.
He found law dear and left it cheap. Brougham.

11. An oath, as in the presence of a court. [Obs.] See Wager of law,
under Wager. Avogadro's law (Chem.), a fundamental conception,
according to which, under similar conditions of temperature and
pressure, all gases and vapors contain in the same volume the same
number of ultimate molecules; -- so named after Avogadro, an Italian
scientist. Sometimes called Ampère's law.
 -- Bode's law (Astron.), an approximative empirical expression of
the distances of the planets from the sun, as follows: --
Mer. Ven. Earth. Mars. Aste. Jup. Sat. Uran. Nep. 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 0
3 6 12 24 48 96 192 384 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- ---4 7 10 16 28 52
100 196 388 5.9 7.3 10 15.2 27.4 52 95.4 192 300 where each distance
(line third) is the sum of 4 and a multiple of 3 by the series 0, 1,
2, 4, 8, etc., the true distances being given in the lower line.
 -- Boyle's law (Physics), an expression of the fact, that when an
elastic fluid is subjected to compression, and kept at a constant
temperature, the product of the pressure and volume is a constant
quantity, i. e., the volume is inversely proportioned to the
pressure; -- known also as Mariotte's law, and the law of Boyle and
Mariotte.
 -- Brehon laws. See under Brehon.
 -- Canon law, the body of ecclesiastical law adopted in the
Christian Church, certain portions of which (for example, the law of
marriage as existing before the Council of Tent) were brought to
America by the English colonists as part of the common law of the
land. Wharton.
 -- Civil law, a term used by writers to designate Roman law, with
modifications thereof which have been made in the different countries
into which that law has been introduced. The civil law, instead of
the common law, prevails in the State of Louisiana. Wharton.
 -- Commercial law. See Law merchant (below).
 -- Common law. See under Common.
 -- Criminal law, that branch of jurisprudence which relates to
crimes.
 -- Ecclesiastical law. See under Ecclesiastical.
 -- Grimm's law (Philol.), a statement (propounded by the German
philologist Jacob Grimm) of certain regular changes which the
primitive Indo-European mute consonants, so-called (most plainly seen
in Sanskrit and, with some changes, in Greek and Latin), have
undergone in the Teutonic languages. Examples: Skr. bhatr, L. frater,
E. brother, G. bruder; L. tres, E. three, G. drei, Skr. go, E. cow,
G. kuh; Skr. dha to put, Gr. ti-qe`-nai, E. do, OHG, tuon, G. thun.
 -- Kepler's laws (Astron.), three important laws or expressions of
the order of the planetary motions, discovered by John Kepler. They
are these: (1) The orbit of a planet with respect to the sun is an
ellipse, the sun being in one of the foci. (2) The areas swept over
by a vector drawn from the sun to a planet are proportioned to the
times of describing them. (3) The squares of the times of revolution
of two planets are in the ratio of the cubes of their mean distances.
 -- Law binding, a plain style of leather binding, used for law
books; -- called also law calf.
 -- Law book, a book containing, or treating of, laws.
 -- Law calf. See Law binding (above).
 -- Law day. (a) Formerly, a day of holding court, esp. a court-leet.
(b) The day named in a mortgage for the payment of the money to
secure which it was given. [U. S.] -- Law French, the dialect of
Norman, which was used in judicial proceedings and law books in
England from the days of William the Conqueror to the thirty-sixth
year of Edward III.
 -- Law language, the language used in legal writings and forms.
 -- Law Latin. See under Latin.
 -- Law lords, peers in the British Parliament who have held high
judicial office, or have been noted in the legal profession.
 -- Law merchant, or Commercial law, a system of rules by which trade
and commerce are regulated; -- deduced from the custom of merchants,
and regulated by judicial decisions, as also by enactments of
legislatures.
 -- Law of Charles (Physics), the law that the volume of a given mass
of gas increases or decreases, by a definite fraction of its value
for a given rise or fall of temperature; -- sometimes less correctly
styled Gay Lussac's law, or Dalton's law.
 -- Law of nations. See International law, under International.
 -- Law of nature. (a) A broad generalization expressive of the
constant action, or effect, of natural conditions; as, death is a law
of nature; self-defense is a law of nature. See Law, 4. (b) A term
denoting the standard, or system, of morality deducible from a study
of the nature and natural relations of human beings independent of
supernatural revelation or of municipal and social usages.
 -- Law of the land, due process of law; the general law of the land.
 -- Laws of honor. See under Honor.
 -- Laws of motion (Physics), three laws defined by Sir Isaac Newton:
(1) Every body perseveres in its state of rest or of moving uniformly
in a straight line, except so far as it is made to change that state
by external force. (2) Change of motion is proportional to the
impressed force, and takes place in the direction in which the force
is impressed. (3) Reaction is always equal and opposite to action,
that is to say, the actions of two bodies upon each other are always
equal and in opposite directions.
 -- Marine law, or Maritime law, the law of the sea; a branch of the
law merchant relating to the affairs of the sea, such as seamen,
ships, shipping, navigation, and the like. Bouvier.
 -- Mariotte's law. See Boyle's law (above).
 -- Martial law.See under Martial.
 -- Military law, a branch of the general municipal law, consisting
of rules ordained for the government of the military force of a state
in peace and war, and administered in courts martial. Kent. Warren's
Blackstone.
 -- Moral law,the law of duty as regards what is right and wrong in
the sight of God; specifically, the ten commandments given by Moses.
See Law, 2.
 -- Mosaic, or Ceremonial, law. (Script.) See Law, 3.
 -- Municipal, or Positive, law, a rule prescribed by the supreme
power of a state, declaring some right, enforcing some duty, or
prohibiting some act; -- distinguished from international and
constitutional law. See Law, 1.
 -- Periodic law. (Chem.) See under Periodic.
 -- Roman law, the system of principles and laws found in the codes
and treatises of the lawmakers and jurists of ancient Rome, and
incorporated more or less into the laws of the several European
countries and colonies founded by them. See Civil law (above).
 -- Statute law, the law as stated in statutes or positive enactments
of the legislative body.
 -- Sumptuary law. See under Sumptuary.
 -- To go to law, to seek a settlement of any matter by bringing it
before the courts of law; to sue or prosecute some one.
 -- To take, or have, the law of, to bring the law to bear upon; as,
to take the law of one's neighbor. Addison.
 -- Wager of law. See under Wager.

Syn.
 -- Justice; equity.
 -- Law, Statute, Common law, Regulation, Edict, Decree. Law is
generic, and, when used with reference to, or in connection with, the
other words here considered, denotes whatever is commanded by one who
has a right to require obedience. A statute is a particular law drawn
out in form, and distinctly enacted and proclaimed. Common law is a
rule of action founded on long usage and the decisions of courts of
justice. A regulation is a limited and often, temporary law, intended
to secure some particular end or object. An edict is a command or law
issued by a sovereign, and is peculiar to a despotic government. A
decree is a permanent order either of a court or of the executive
government. See Justice.

LAW
Law, v. t.

Defn: Same as Lawe, v. t. [Obs.]

LAW
Law, interj. Etym: [Cf. La.]

Defn: An exclamation of mild surprise. [Archaic or Low]

LAW-ABIDING
Law"-a*bid`ing, a.

Defn: Abiding the law; waiting for the operation of law for the
enforcement of rights; also, abiding by the law; obedient to the law;
as, law-abiding people.

LAWBREAKER
Law"break`er, n.

Defn: One who disobeys the law; a criminal.
 -- Law"break`ing, n. & a.

LAWE
Lawe, v. t. Etym: [See 2d Lawing.]

Defn: To cut off the claws and balls of, as of a dog's fore feet.
Wright.

LAWER
Law"er, n.

Defn: A lawyer. [Obs.] Bale.

LAWFUL
Law"ful, a.

1. Conformable to law; allowed by law; legitimate; competent.

2. Constituted or authorized by law; rightful; as, the lawful owner
of lands. Lawful age, the age when the law recognizes one's right of
independent action; majority; -- generally the age of twenty-one
years.

Note: In some of the States, and for some purposes, a woman attains
lawful age at eighteen. Abbott.

Syn.
 -- Legal; constitutional; allowable; regular; rightful.
 -- Lawful, Legal. Lawful means conformable to the principle, spirit,
or essence of the law, and is applicable to moral as well as
juridical law. Legal means conformable to the letter or rules of the
law as it is administered in the courts; conformable to juridical
law. Legal is often used as antithetical to equitable, but lawful is
seldom used in that sense.
 -- Law"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Law"ful*ness, n.

LAWGIVER
Law"giv`er, n.

Defn: One who makes or enacts a law or system of laws; a legislator.

LAWGIVING
Law"giv`ing, a.

Defn: Enacting laws; legislative.

LAWING
Law"ing, n.

Defn: Going to law; litigation. Holinshed.

LAWING
Law"ing, n. Etym: [So called because done in compliance with an
English forest law.]

Defn: Expeditation. Blackstone.

LAWLESS
Law"less, a.

1. Contrary to, or unauthorized by, law; illegal; as, a lawless
claim.
He needs no indirect nor lawless course. Shak.

2. Not subject to, or restrained by, the law of morality or of
society; as, lawless men or behavior.

3. Not subject to the laws of nature; uncontrolled.
Or, meteorlike, flame lawless through the void. Pope.
-- Law"less*ly, adv.
 -- Law"less*ness, n.

LAWMAKER
Law"mak`er, n.

Defn: A legislator; a lawgiver.

LAWMAKING
Law"mak`ing, a.

Defn: Enacting laws; legislative.
 -- n.

Defn: The enacting of laws; legislation.

LAWMONGER
Law"mon`ger, n.

Defn: A trader in law; one who practices law as if it were a trade.
Milton.

LAWN
Lawn, n. Etym: [OE. laund, launde, F. lande heath, moor; of Celtic
origin; cf. W. llan an open, clear place, llawnt a smooth rising
hill, lawn, Armor. lann or lan territory, country, lann a prickly
plant, pl. lannou heath, moor.]

1. An open space between woods. Milton.
"Orchard lawns and bowery hollows." Tennyson.

2. Ground (generally in front of or around a house) covered with
grass kept closely mown. Lawn mower, a machine for clipping the short
grass of lawns.
 -- Lawn tennis, a variety of the game of tennis, played in the open
air, sometimes upon a lawn, instead of in a tennis court. See Tennis.

LAWN
Lawn, n. Etym: [Earlier laune lynen, i. e., lawn linen; prob. from
the town Laon in France.]

Defn: A very fine linen (or sometimes cotton) fabric with a rather
open texture. Lawn is used for the sleeves of a bishop's official
dress in the English Church, and, figuratively, stands for the office
itself.
A saint in crape is twice in lawn. Pope.

LAWND
Lawnd, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Laund.

LAWNY
Lawn"y, a.

Defn: Having a lawn; characterized by a lawn or by lawns; like a
lawn.
Musing through the lawny park. T. Warton.

LAWNY
Lawn"y, a.

Defn: Made of lawn or fine linen. Bp. Hall.

LAWSONIA
Law*so"ni*a, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Asiatic and North African shrub (Lawsonia inermis), with
smooth oval leaves, and fragrant white flowers. Henna is prepared
from the leaves and twigs. In England the shrub is called Egyptian
privet, and in the West Indies, Jamaica mignonette.

LAWSUIT
Law"suit`, n.

Defn: An action at law; a suit in equity or admiralty; any legal
proceeding before a court for the enforcement of a claim.

LAWYER
Law"yer, n. Etym: [From Law, like bowyer, fr.bow.]

1. One versed in the laws, or a practitioner of law; one whose
profession is to conduct lawsuits for clients, or to advise as to
prosecution or defence of lawsuits, or as to legal rights and
obligations in other matters. It is a general term, comprehending
attorneys, counselors, solicitors, barristers, sergeants, and
advocates.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) The black-necked stilt. See Stilt.
(b) The bowfin (Amia calva).
(c) The burbot (Lota maculosa).

LAWYERLIKE; LAWYERLY
Law"yer*like`, Law"yer*ly, a.

Defn: Like, or becoming, a lawyer; as, lawyerlike sagacity. "Lawyerly
mooting of this point." Milton.

LAX
Lax, a. [Compar. Laxer; superl. Laxest.] Etym: [L. laxus Cf. Laches,
Languish, Lease, v. t., Leash.]

1. Not tense, firm, or rigid; loose; slack; as, a lax bandage; lax
fiber.
The flesh of that sort of fish being lax and spongy. Ray.

2. Not strict or stringent; not exact; loose; weak; vague; equivocal.
The discipline was lax. Macaulay.
Society at that epoch was lenient, if not lax, in matters of the
passions. J. A. Symonds.
The word "æternus" itself is sometimes of a lax signification.
Jortin.

3. Having a looseness of the bowels; diarrheal.

Syn.
 -- Loose; slack; vague; unconfined; unrestrained; dissolute;
licentious.

LAX
Lax, n.

Defn: A looseness; diarrhea.

LAXATION
Lax*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. laxatio, fr. laxare to loosen, fr. laxus
loose, slack.]

Defn: The act of loosening or slackening, or the state of being
loosened or slackened.

LAXATIVE
Lax"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. laxativus mitigating, assuaging: cf. F.
laxatif. See Lax, a.]

1. Having a tendency to loosen or relax. Milton.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Having the effect of loosening or opening the intestines, and
relieving from constipation; -- opposed to astringent.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A laxative medicine. See the Note under Cathartic.

LAXATIVENESS
Lax"a*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being laxative.

LAXATOR
Lax*a"tor, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. laxare, laxatum, to loosen.] (Anat.)

Defn: That which loosens; -- esp., a muscle which by its contraction
loosens some part.

LAXIITY
Lax"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. laxitas, fr. laxus loose, slack: cf. F.
laxité, See Lax, a.]

Defn: The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness,
strictness, or exactness.

LAXITY
Lax"i*ty (laks"i*ty), n. [L. laxitas, fr. laxus loose, slack: cf. F.
laxité, See Lax, a.]

Defn: The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness,
strictness, or exactness.

LAXLY
Lax"ly, adv.

Defn: In a lax manner.

LAXNESS
Lax"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being lax; laxity.

LAY
Lay, imp.

Defn: of Lie, to recline.

LAY
Lay, a. Etym: [F. lai, L. laicus, Gr. Laic.]

1. Of or pertaining to the laity, as distinct from the clergy; as, a
lay person; a lay preacher; a lay brother.

2. Not educated or cultivated; ignorant.[Obs.]

3. Not belonging to, or emanating from, a particular profession;
unprofessional; as, a lay opinion regarding the nature of a disease.
Lay baptism (Eccl.), baptism administered by a lay person. F. G. Lee.
 -- Lay brother (R. C. Ch.), one received into a convent of monks
under the three vows, but not in holy orders.
 -- Lay clerk (Eccl.), a layman who leads the responses of the
congregation, etc., in the church service. Hook.
 -- Lay days (Com.), time allowed in a charter party for taking in
and discharging cargo. McElrath.
 -- Lay elder. See 2d Elder, 3, note.

LAY
Lay, n.

Defn: The laity; the common people. [Obs.]
The learned have no more privilege than the lay. B. Jonson.

LAY
Lay, n.

Defn: A meadow. See Lea. [Obs.] Dryden.

LAY
Lay, n. Etym: [OF.lei faith, law, F. loi law. See Legal.]

1. Faith; creed; religious profession. [Obs.]
Of the sect to which that he was born He kept his lay, to which that
he was sworn. Chaucer.

2. A law. [Obs.] "Many goodly lays." Spenser.

3. An obligation; a vow. [Obs.]
They bound themselves by a sacred lay and oath. Holland.

LAY
Lay, a. Etym: [OF. lai, lais, prob. of Celtic origin; cf. Ir. laoi,
laoidh, song, poem, OIr.laoidh poem, verse; but cf. also AS. lac
play, sport, G. leich a sort of poem (cf. Lake to sport).

1. A song; a simple lyrical poem; a ballad. Spenser. Sir W. Scott.

2. A melody; any musical utterance.
The throstle cock made eke his lay. Chaucer.

LAY
Lay, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Laid; p. pr. & vb. n. Laying.] Etym: [OE.
leggen, AS. lecgan, causative, fr. licgan to lie; akin to D.leggen,
G. legen, Icel. leggja, Goth. lagjan. See Lie to be prostrate.]

1. To cause to lie down, to be prostrate, or to lie against
something; to put or set down; to deposit; as, to lay a book on the
table; to lay a body in the grave; a shower lays the dust.
A stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den. Dan. vi. 17.
Soft on the flowery herb I found me laid. Milton.

2. To place in position; to establish firmly; to arrange with
regularity; to dispose in ranks or tiers; as, to lay a corner stone;
to lay bricks in a wall; to lay the covers on a table.

3. To prepare; to make ready; to contrive; to provide; as, to lay a
snare, an ambush, or a plan.

4. To spread on a surface; as, to lay plaster or paint.

5. To cause to be still; to calm; to allay; to suppress; to exorcise,
as an evil spirit.
After a tempest when the winds are laid. Waller.

6. To cause to lie dead or dying.
Brave Cæneus laid Ortygius on the plain, The victor Cæneus was by
Turnus slain. Dryden.

7. To deposit, as a wager; to stake; to risk.
I dare lay mine honor He will remain so. Shak.

8. To bring forth and deposit; as, to lay eggs.

9. To apply; to put.
She layeth her hands to the spindle. Prov. xxxi. 19.

10. To impose, as a burden, suffering, or punishment; to assess, as a
tax; as, to lay a tax on land.
The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Is. Iiii. 6.

11. To impute; to charge; to allege.
God layeth not folly to them. Job xxiv. 12.
Lay the fault on us. Shak.

12. To impose, as a command or a duty; as, to lay commands on one.

13. To present or offer; as, to lay an indictment in a particular
county; to lay a scheme before one.

14. (Law)

Defn: To state; to allege; as, to lay the venue. Bouvier.

15. (Mil.)

Defn: To point; to aim; as, to lay a gun.

16. (Rope Making)

Defn: To put the strands of (a rope, a cable, etc.) in their proper
places and twist or unite them; as, to lay a cable or rope.

17. (Print.)
(a) To place and arrange (pages) for a form upon the imposing stone.
(b) To place (new type) properly in the cases. To lay asleep, to put
sleep; to make unobservant or careless. Bacon.
 -- To lay bare, to make bare; to strip.
And laid those proud roofs bare to summer's rain. Byron.
-- To lay before, to present to; to submit for consideration; as, the
papers are laid before Congress.
 -- To lay by. (a) To save. (b) To discard.
Let brave spirits . . . not be laid by. Bacon.
-- To lay by the heels, to put in the stocks. Shak.
 -- To lay down. (a) To stake as a wager. (b) To yield; to
relinquish; to surrender; as, to lay down one's life; to lay down
one's arms. (c) To assert or advance, as a proposition or principle.
 -- To lay forth. (a) To extend at length; (reflexively) to exert
one's self; to expatiate. [Obs.] (b) To lay out (as a corpse). [Obs.]
Shak.
 -- To lay hands on, to seize.
 -- To lay hands on one's self, or To lay violent hands on one's
self, to injure one's self; specif., to commit suicide.
 -- To lay heads together, to consult.
 -- To lay hold of, or To lay hold on, to seize; to catch.
 -- To lay in, to store; to provide.
 -- To lay it on, to apply without stint. Shak.
 -- To lay on, to apply with force; to inflict; as, to lay on blows.
 -- To lay on load, to lay on blows; to strike violently. [Obs. or
Archaic] -- To lay one's self out, to strive earnestly.
No selfish man will be concerned to lay out himself for the good of
his country. Smalridge.
-- To lay one's self open to, to expose one's self to, as to an
accusation.
 -- To lay open, to open; to uncover; to expose; to reveal.
 -- To lay over, to spread over; to cover.
 -- To lay out. (a) To expend. Macaulay. (b) To display; to discover.
(c) To plan in detail; to arrange; as, to lay out a garden. (d) To
prepare for burial; as, to lay out a corpse. (e) To exert; as, to lay
out all one's strength.
 -- To lay siege to. (a) To besiege; to encompass with an army. (b)
To beset pertinaciously.
 -- To lay the course (Naut.), to sail toward the port intended
without jibing.
 -- To lay the land (Naut.), to cause it to disappear below the
horizon, by sailing away from it.
 -- To lay to (a) To charge upon; to impute. (b) To apply with vigor.
(c) To attack or harass. [Obs.] Knolles. (d) (Naut.) To check the
motion of (a vessel) and cause it to be stationary.
 -- To lay to heart, to feel deeply; to consider earnestly.
 -- To lay under, to subject to; as, to lay under obligation or
restraint.
 -- To lay unto. (a) Same as To lay to (above). (b) To put before.
Hos. xi. 4.
 -- To lay up. (a) To store; to reposit for future use. (b) To
confine; to disable. (c) To dismantle, and retire from active
service, as a ship.
 -- To lay wait for, to lie in ambush for.
 -- To lay waste, to destroy; to make desolate; as, to lay waste the
land.

Syn.
 -- See Put, v. t., and the Note under 4th Lie.

LAY
Lay, v. i.

1. To produce and deposit eggs.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To take a position; to come or go; as, to lay forward; to lay
aloft.

3. To lay a wager; to bet. To lay about, or To lay about one, to
strike vigorously in all directions. J. H. Newman.
 -- To lay at, to strike or strike at. Spenser.
 -- To lay for, to prepare to capture or assault; to lay wait for.
[Colloq.] Bp Hall.
 -- To lay in for, to make overtures for; to engage or secure the
possession of. [Obs.] "I have laid in for these." Dryden.
 -- To lay on, to strike; to beat; to attack. Shak.
 -- To lay out, to purpose; to plan; as, he lays out to make a
journey.

LAY
Lay, n.

1. That which lies or is laid or is conceived of as having been laid
or placed in its position; a row; a stratum; a layer; as, a lay of
stone or wood. Addison.
A viol should have a lay of wire strings below. Bacon.

Note: The lay of a rope is right-handed or left-handed according to
the hemp or strands are laid up. See Lay, v. t., 16. The lay of land
is its topographical situation, esp. its slope and its surface
features.

2. A wager. "My fortunes against any lay worth naming."

3.
(a) A job, price, or profit. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
(b) A share of the proceeds or profits of an enterprise; as, when a
man ships for a whaling voyage, he agrees for a certain lay. [U. S.]

4. (Textile Manuf.)
(a) A measure of yarn; a les. See 1st Lea (a).
(b) The lathe of a loom. See Lathe, 8.

5. A plan; a scheme. [Slang] Dickens. Lay figure. (a) A jointed model
of the human body that may be put in any attitude; -- used for
showing the disposition of drapery, etc. (b) A mere puppet; one who
serves the will of others without independent volition.
 -- Lay race, that part of a lay on which the shuttle travels in
weaving; -- called also shuttle race.

LAYER
Lay"er, n. Etym: [See Lay to cause to lie flat.]

1. One who, or that which, lays.

2. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of lair.]

Defn: That which is laid; a stratum; a bed; one thickness, course, or
fold laid over another; as, a layer of clay or of sand in the earth;
a layer of bricks, or of plaster; the layers of an onion.

3. A shoot or twig of a plant, not detached from the stock, laid
under ground for growth or propagation.

4. An artificial oyster bed.

LAYERING
Lay"er*ing, n.

Defn: A propagating by layers. Gardner.

LAYETTE
Lay*ette", n. [F.] (Med.)

Defn: The outfit of clothing, blankets, etc., prepared for a newborn
infant, and placed ready for used.

LAYING
Lay"ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, lays.

2. The act or period of laying eggs; the eggs laid for one
incubation; a clutch.

3. The first coat on laths of plasterer's two-coat work.

LAYLAND
Lay"land`, n. Etym: [Lay a meadow + land.]

Defn: Land lying untilled; fallow ground. [Obs.] Blount.

LAYMAN
Lay"man n.; pl. Laymen (. Etym: [Lay, adj. + man.]

1. One of the people, in distinction from the clergy; one of the
laity; sometimes, a man not belonging to some particular profession,
in distinction from those who do.
Being a layman, I ought not to have concerned myself with
speculations which belong to the profession. Dryden.

2. A lay figure. See under Lay, n. (above). Dryden

LAYNER
Lay"ner, n.Etym: [See Lanier.]

Defn: A whiplash. [Obs.]

LAY READER
Lay" read"er. (Eccl.)

Defn: A layman authorized to read parts of the public service of the
church.

LAY SHAFT; LAYSHAFT
Lay shaft, or Lay"shaft`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: A secondary shaft, as in a sliding change gear for an
automobile; a cam shaft operated by a two-to-one gear in an internal-
combustion engine. It is generally a shaft moving more or less
independently of the other parts of a machine, as, in some marine
engines, a shaft, driven by a small auxiliary engine, for
independently operating the valves of the main engine to insure
uniform motion.

LAYSHIP
Lay"ship, n.

Defn: The condition of being a layman. [Obs.] Milton.

LAYSTALL
Lay"stall`, n.

1. A place where rubbish, dung, etc., are laid or deposited.[Obs.] B.
Jonson.
Smithfield was a laystall of all ordure and filth. Bacon.

2. A place where milch cows are kept, or cattle on the way to market
are lodged. [Obs.]

LAZAR
La"zar, n. Etym: [OF. lazare, fr. Lazarus the beggar. Luke xvi. 20.]

Defn: A person infected with a filthy or pestilential disease; a
leper. Chaucer.
Like loathsome lazars, by the hedges lay. Spenser.
Lazar house a lazaretto; also, a hospital for quarantine.

LAZARET; LAZARETTO
Laz`a*ret", Laz`a*ret"to, n. Etym: [F. lazaret, or It. lazzeretto,
fr. Lazarus. See Lazar.]

Defn: A public building, hospital, or pesthouse for the reception of
diseased persons, particularly those affected with contagious
diseases.

LAZARET FEVER
Lazaret fever. (Med.)

Defn: Typhus fever.

LAZARIST; LAZARITE
Laz"a*rist, Laz"a*rite, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One of the Congregation of the Priests of the Mission, a
religious institute founded by Vincent de Paul in 1624, and popularly
called Lazarists or Lazarites from the College of St. Lazare in
Paris, which was occupied by them until 1792.

LAZARLIKE; LAZARLY
La"zar*like`, La"zar*ly, a.

Defn: Full of sores; leprous. Shak. Bp. Hall.

LAZARONI
Laz`a*ro"ni, n. pl.

Defn: See Lazzaroni.

LAZARWORT
La"zar*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Laserwort.

LAZE
Laze, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lazed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lazing.] Etym: [See
Lazy.]

Defn: To be lazy or idle. [Colloq.] Middleton.

LAZE
Laze, v. t.

Defn: To waste in sloth; to spend, as time, in idleness; as, to laze
away whole days. [Colloq.]

LAZILY
La"zi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lazy manner. Locke.

LAZINESS
La"zi*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being lazy.
Laziness travels so slowly, that Poverty soon overtakes him.
Franklin.

LAZULI
Laz"u*li, n.Etym: [F. & NL. lapis lazuli, LL. lazulus, lazurius,
lazur from the same Oriental source as E. azure. See Azure.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a fine azure-blue color, usually in small rounded
masses. It is essentially a silicate of alumina, lime, and soda, with
some sodium sulphide, is often marked by yellow spots or veins of
sulphide of iron, and is much valued for ornamental work. Called also
lapis lazuli, and Armenian stone.

LAZULITE
Laz"u*lite, n. Etym: [From lazuli : cf. F. lazulite, G. lazulith.]
(Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a light indigo-blue color, occurring in small
masses, or in monoclinic crystals; blue spar. It is a hydrous
phosphate of alumina and magnesia.

LAZY
La"zy, a. [Compar. Lazier; superl. Laziest.] Etym: [OE. lasie,
laesic, of uncertain origin; cf. F. las tired, L. lassus, akin to E.
late; or cf. LG. losig, lesig.]

1. Disinclined to action or exertion; averse to labor; idle; shirking
work. Bacon.

2. Inactive; slothful; slow; sluggish; as, a lazy stream. "The night
owl's lazy flight." Shak.

3. Wicked; vicious. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] B. Jonson.

Lazy tongs, a system of jointed bars capable of great extension,
originally made for picking up something at a distance, now variously
applied in machinery.

Syn.
 -- Idle; indolent; sluggish; slothful. See Idle.

LAZYBACK
La"zy*back`, n.

Defn: A support for the back, attached to the seat of a carriage.
[Colloq.]

LAZYBONES
La"zy*bones`, n.

Defn: A lazy person. [Colloq.]

LAZZARONI
Laz`za*ro"ni (; It. , n. pl. Etym: [It. lazzarone, pl. lazzaroni.]

Defn: The homeless idlers of Naples who live by chance work or
begging; -- so called from the Hospital of St. Lazarus, which serves
as their refuge. [Written also, but improperly, lazaroni.]

LEA
Lea, n. Etym: [Cf. Lay, n. (that which is laid), 4.] (Textile Manuf.)
(a) A measure of yarn; for linen, 300 yards; for cotton, 120 yards; a
lay.
(b) A set of warp threads carried by a loop of the heddle.

LEA
Lea, n. Etym: [OE. ley, lay, As. leáh, leá; akin to Prov. G. lon bog,
morass, grove, and perh. to L. lucus grove, E. light, n.]

Defn: A meadow or sward land; a grassy field. "Plow-torn leas." Shak.
The lowing herd wind slowly o'er the lea. Gray.

LEACH
Leach, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See 3d Leech.

LEACH
Leach, n. [Written also letch.] Etym: [Cf. As. leáh lye, G. lauge.
See Lye.]

1. A quantity of wood ashes, through which water passes, and thus
imbibes the alkali.

2. A tub or vat for leaching ashes, bark, etc. Leach tub, a wooden
tub in which ashes are leached.

LEACH
Leach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leached; p. pr. & vb. n. Leaching.] Etym:
[Written also leech and letch.]

1. To remove the soluble constituents from by subjecting to the
action of percolating water or other liquid; as, to leach ashes or
coffee.

2. To dissolve out; -- often used with out; as, to leach out alkali
from ashes.

LEACH
Leach, v. i.

Defn: To part with soluble constituents by percolation.

LEACH
Leach, n.

Defn: See Leech, a physician. [Obs.]

LEACHY
Leach"y, a.

Defn: Permitting liquids to pass by percolation; not capable of
retaining water; porous; pervious; -- said of gravelly or sandy
soils, and the like.

LEAD
Lead (lêd), n. Etym: [OE. led, leed, lead, AS. leád; akin to D. lood,
MHG. lot, G. loth plummet, sounding lead, small weight, Sw. & Dan.
lod. sq. root123]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having
a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished. It is both malleable
and ductile, though with little tenacity, and is used for tubes,
sheets, bullets, etc. Its specific gravity is 11.37. It is easily
fusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient of
solder and type metal. Atomic weight, 206.4. Symbol Pb (L. Plumbum).
It is chiefly obtained from the mineral galena, lead sulphide.

2. An article made of lead or an alloy of lead; as:
(a) A plummet or mass of lead, used in sounding at sea.
(b) (Print.) A thin strip of type metal, used to separate lines of
type in printing.
(c) Sheets or plates of lead used as a covering for roofs; hence,
pl., a roof covered with lead sheets or terne plates.
I would have the tower two stories, and goodly leads upon the top.
Bacon

3. A small cylinder of black lead or plumbago, used in pencils. Black
lead, graphite or plumbago, ; -- so called from its leadlike
appearance and streak. [Colloq.] -- Coasting lead, a sounding lead
intermediate in weight between a hand lead and deep-sea lead.
 -- Deep-sea lead, the heaviest of sounding leads, used in water
exceeding a hundred fathoms in depth. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
 -- Hand lead, a small lead use for sounding in shallow water.
 -- Krems lead, Kremnitz lead Etym: [so called from Krems or
Kremnitz, in Austria], a pure variety of white lead, formed into
tablets, and called also Krems, or Kremnitz, white, and Vienna white.
 -- Lead arming, tallow put in the hollow of a sounding lead. See To
arm the lead (below).
 -- Lead colic. See under Colic.
 -- Lead color, a deep bluish gray color, like tarnished lead.
 -- Lead glance. (Min.) Same as Galena.
 -- Lead line (a) (Med.) A dark line along the gums produced by a
deposit of metallic lead, due to lead poisoning. (b) (Naut.) A
sounding line.
 -- Lead mill, a leaden polishing wheel, used by lapidaries.
 -- Lead ocher (Min.), a massive sulphur-yellow oxide of lead. Same
as Massicot.
 -- Lead pencil, a pencil of which the marking material is graphite
(black lead).
 -- Lead plant (Bot.), a low leguminous plant, genus Amorpha (A.
canescens), found in the Northwestern United States, where its
presence is supposed to indicate lead ore. Gray.
 -- Lead tree. (a) (Bot.) A West Indian name for the tropical,
leguminous tree, Leucæna glauca; -- probably so called from the
glaucous color of the foliage. (b) (Chem.) Lead crystallized in
arborescent forms from a solution of some lead salt, as by suspending
a strip of zinc in lead acetate.
 -- Mock lead, a miner's term for blende.
 -- Red lead, a scarlet, crystalline, granular powder, consisting of
minium when pure, but commonly containing several of the oxides of
lead. It is used as a paint or cement and also as an ingredient of
flint glass.
 -- Red lead ore (Min.), crocoite.
 -- Sugar of lead, acetate of lead.
 -- To arm the lead, to fill the hollow in the bottom of a sounding
lead with tallow in order to discover the nature of the bottom by the
substances adhering. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
 -- To cast, or heave, the lead, to cast the sounding lead for
ascertaining the depth of water.
 -- White lead, hydrated carbonate of lead, obtained as a white,
amorphous powder, and much used as an ingredient of white paint.

LEAD
Lead, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Leading.]

1. To cover, fill, or affect with lead; as, continuous firing leads
the grooves of a rifle.

2. (Print.)

Defn: To place leads between the lines of; as, to lead a page; leaded
matter.

LEAD
Lead (led), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Led; p. pr. & vb. n. Leading.] Etym:
[OE. leden, AS. l (akin to OS. l, D. leiden, G. leiten,Icel. le, Sw.
leda, Dan.lede), properly a causative fr. AS. li to go; akin to OHG.
l, Icel. l,Goth. leipan (in comp.). Cf. Lode, Loath.]

1. To guide or conduct with the hand, or by means of some physical
contact connection; as, a father leads a child; a jockey leads a
horse with a halter; a dog leads a blind man.
If a blind man lead a blind man, both fall down in the ditch. Wyclif
(Matt. xv. 14.)
They thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the
hill. Luke iv. 29.
In thy right hand lead with thee The mountain nymph, sweet Liberty.
Milton.

2. To guide or conduct in a certain course, or to a certain place or
end, by making the way known; to show the way, esp. by going with or
going in advance of. Hence, figuratively: To direct; to counsel; to
instruct; as, to lead a traveler; to lead a pupil.
The Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to lead them
the way. Ex. xiii. 21.
He leadeth me beside the still waters. Ps. xxiii. 2.
This thought might lead me through the world's vain mask. Content,
though blind, had I no better guide. Milton.

3. To conduct or direct with authority; to have direction or charge
of; as, to lead an army, an exploring party, or a search; to lead a
political party.
Christ took not upon him flesh and blood that he might conquer and
rule nations, lead armies, or possess places. South.

4. To go or to be in advance of; to precede; hence, to be foremost or
chief among; as, the big sloop led the fleet of yachts; the Guards
led the attack; Demosthenes leads the orators of all ages.
As Hesperus, that leads the sun his way. Fairfax.
And lo ! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest. Leigh Hunt.

5. To draw or direct by influence, whether good or bad; to prevail
on; to induce; to entice; to allure; as, to lead one to espouse a
righteous cause.
He was driven by the necessities of the times, more than led by his
own disposition, to any rigor of actions. Eikon Basilike.
Silly women, laden with sins,led away by divers lusts. 2 Tim. iii. 6
(Rev. Ver.).

6. To guide or conduct one's self in, through, or along (a certain
course); hence, to proceed in the way of; to follow the path or
course of; to pass; to spend. Also, to cause (one) to proceed or
follow in (a certain course).
That we may lead a quiet and peaceable life. 1 Tim. ii. 2.
Nor thou with shadowed hint confuse A life that leads melodious days.
Tennyson.
You remember . . . the life he used to lead his wife and daughter.
Dickens.

7. (Cards & Dominoes)

Defn: To begin a game, round, or trick, with; as, to lead trumps; the
double five was led. To lead astray, to guide in a wrong way, or into
error; to seduce from truth or rectitude.
 -- To lead captive, to carry or bring into captivity.
 -- To lead the way, to show the way by going in front; to act as
guide. Goldsmith.

LEAD
Lead, v. i.

1. To guide or conduct, as by accompanying, going before, showing,
influencing, directing with authority, etc.; to have precedence or
preëminence; to be first or chief; -- used in most of the senses of
lead, v. t.

2. To tend or reach in a certain direction, or to a certain place;
as, the path leads to the mill; gambling leads to other vices.
The mountain foot that leads towards Mantua. Shak.
To lead off or out, to go first; to begin.

LEAD
Lead, n.

1. The act of leading or conducting; guidance; direction; as, to take
the lead; to be under the lead of another.
At the time I speak of, and having a momentary lead, . . . I am sure
I did my country important service. Burke.

2. precedence; advance position; also, the measure of precedence; as,
the white horse had the lead; a lead of a boat's length, or of half a
second.

3. (Cards & Dominoes)

Defn: The act or right of playing first in a game or round; the card
suit, or piece, so played; as, your partner has the lead.

4. An open way in an ice field. Kane.

5. (Mining)

Defn: A lode.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The course of a rope from end to end.

7. (Steam Engine)

Defn: The width of port opening which is uncovered by the valve, for
the admission or release of steam, at the instant when the piston is
at end of its stroke.

Note: When used alone it means outside lead, or lead for the
admission of steam. Inside lead refers to the release or exhaust.

8. (Civil Engineering)

Defn: the distance of haul, as from a cutting to an embankment.

9. (Horology)

Defn: The action of a tooth, as a tooth of a wheel, in impelling
another tooth or a pallet. Saunier. Lead angle (Steam Engine), the
angle which the crank maker with the line of centers, in approaching
it, at the instant when the valve opens to admit steam.
 -- Lead screw (Mach.), the main longitudinal screw of a lathe, which
gives the feed motion to the carriage.

LEADED
Lead"ed, a.

1. Fitted with lead; set in lead; as, leaded windows.

2. (Print.)

Defn: Separated by leads, as the lines of a page.

LEADEN
Lead"en, a.

1. Made of lead; of the nature of lead; as, a leaden ball.

2. Like lead in color, etc. ; as, a leaden sky.

3. Heavy; dull; sluggish. "Leaden slumber." Shak.

LEADER
Lead"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, leads or conducts; a guide; a conductor.
Especially:
(a) One who goes first.
(b) One having authority to direct; a chief; a commander.
(c) (Mus.) A performer who leads a band or choir in music; also, in
an orchestra, the principal violinist; the one who plays at the head
of the first violins.
(d) (Naut.) A block of hard wood pierced with suitable holes for
leading ropes in their proper places.
(e) (Mach.) The principal wheel in any kind of machinery. [Obs. or
R.] G. Francis.
(f) A horse placed in advance of others; one of the forward pair of
horses.
He forgot to pull in his leaders, and they gallop away with him at
times. Hare.

(g) A pipe for conducting rain water from a roof to a cistern or to
the ground; a conductor. (h) (Fishing)

Defn: A net for leading fish into a pound, weir, etc. ; also, a line
of gut, to which the snell of a fly hook is attached.
(i) (Mining) A branch or small vein, not important in itself, but
indicating the proximity of a better one.

2. The first, or the principal, editorial article in a newspaper; a
leading or main editorial article.

3. (Print.)
(a) A type having a dot or short row of dots upon its face. (b) pl.

Defn: a row of dots, periods, or hyphens, used in tables of contents,
etc., to lead the eye across a space to the right word or number.

Syn.
 -- chief; chieftain; commander. See Chief.

LEADERSHIP
Lead"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a leader.

LEADHILLITE
Lead"hill*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a yellowish or greenish white color, consisting of
the sulphate and carbonate of lead; -- so called from having been
first found at Leadhills, Scotland.

LEADING
Lead"ing, a.

Defn: Guiding; directing; controlling; foremost; as, a leading
motive; a leading man; a leading example.
 -- Lead"ing*ly, adv. Leading case (Law), a reported decision which
has come to be regarded as settling the law of the question involved.
Abbott.
 -- Leading motive Etym: [a translation of G. leitmotif] (Mus.), a
guiding theme; in the modern music drama of Wagner, a marked melodic
phrase or short passage which always accompanies the reappearance of
a certain person, situation, abstract idea, or allusion in the course
of the play; a sort of musical label.
 -- Leading note (Mus.), the seventh note or tone in the ascending
major scale; the sensible note.
 -- Leading question, a question so framed as to guide the person
questioned in making his reply.
 -- Leading strings, strings by which children are supported when
beginning to walk.
 -- To be in leading strings, to be in a state of infancy or
dependence, or under the guidance of others.
 -- Leading wheel, a wheel situated before the driving wheels of a
locomotive engine.