

LEADING
Lead"ing, n.

1. The act of guiding, directing, governing, or enticing; guidance.
Shak.

2. Suggestion; hint; example. [Archaic] Bacon.

LEADING EDGE
Lead"ing edge. (Aëronautics)

Defn: same as Advancing edge, above.

LEADMAN
Lead"man, n.; pl. Leadmen (.

Defn: One who leads a dance.[Obs.] B. Jonson.

LEADSMAN
Leads"man, n.; pl. Leadsmen (. (Naut.)

Defn: The man who heaves the lead. Totten.

LEADWORT
Lead"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of maritime herbs (Plumbago). P. Europæa has lead-
colored spots on the leaves, and nearly lead-colored flowers.

LEADY
Lead"y, a.

Defn: Resembling lead. Sir T. Elyot.

LEAF
Leaf, n.; pl. Leaves. Etym: [OE. leef, lef, leaf, AS. leáf; akin to
S. l, OFries. laf, D. loof foliage, G. laub,OHG. loub leaf, foliage,
Icel. lauf, Sw. löf, Dan. löv, Goth. laufs; cf. Lith. lapas. Cf.
Lodge.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of a
stem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant is
elaborated under the influence of light; one of the parts of a plant
which collectively constitute its foliage.

Note: Such leaves usually consist of a blade, or lamina , supported
upon a leafstalk or petiole, which, continued through the blade as
the midrib, gives off woody ribs and veins that support the cellular
texture. The petiole has usually some sort of an appendage on each
side of its base, which is called the stipule. The green parenchyma
of the leaf is covered with a thin epiderm pierced with closable
microscopic openings, known as stomata.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A special organ of vegetation in the form of a lateral
outgrowth from the stem, whether appearing as a part of the foliage,
or as a cotyledon, a scale, a bract, a spine, or a tendril.

Note: In this view every part of a plant, except the root and the
stem, is either a leaf, or is composed of leaves more or less
modified and transformed.

3. Something which is like a leaf in being wide and thin and having a
flat surface, or in being attached to a larger body by one edge or
end; as : (a) A part of a book or folded sheet containing two pages
upon its opposite sides. (b) A side, division, or part, that slides
or is hinged, as of window shutters, folding doors, etc. (c) The
movable side of a table. (d) A very thin plate; as, gold leaf. (e) A
portion of fat lying in a separate fold or layer. (f) One of the
teeth of a pinion, especially when small. Leaf beetle (Zoöl.), any
beetle which feeds upon leaves; esp., any species of the family
Chrysomelidæ, as the potato beetle and helmet beetle.
 -- Leaf bridge, a draw-bridge having a platform or leaf which swings
vertically on hinges.
 -- Leaf bud (Bot.), a bud which develops into leaves or a leafy
branch.
 -- Leaf butterfly (Zoöl.), any butterfly which, in the form and
colors of its wings, resembles the leaves of plants upon which it
rests; esp., butterflies of the genus Kallima, found in Southern Asia
and the East Indies.
 -- Leaf crumpler (Zoöl.), a small moth (Phycis indigenella), the
larva of which feeds upon leaves of the apple tree, and forms its
nest by crumpling and fastening leaves together in clusters.
 -- Leaf cutter (Zoöl.) , any one of various species of wild bees of
the genus Megachile, which cut rounded pieces from the edges of
leaves, or the petals of flowers, to be used in the construction of
their nests, which are made in holes and crevices, or in a leaf
rolled up for the purpose. Among the common American species are M.
brevis and M. centuncularis. Called also rose-cutting bee.
 -- Leaf fat, the fat which lies in leaves or layers within the body
of an animal.
 -- Leaf flea (Zoöl.), a jumping plant louse of the family Psyllidæ.
 -- Leaf frog (Zoöl.), any tree frog of the genus Phyllomedusa.
 -- Leaf green.(Bot.) See Chlorophyll.
 -- Leaf hopper (Zoöl.), any small jumping hemipterous insect of the
genus Tettigonia, and allied genera. They live upon the leaves and
twigs of plants. See Live hopper.
 -- Leaf insect (Zoöl.), any one of several genera and species of
orthopterous insects, esp. of the genus Phyllium, in which the wings,
and sometimes the legs, resemble leaves in color and form. They are
common in Southern Asia and the East Indies.
 -- Leaf lard, lard from leaf fat. See under Lard.
 -- Leaf louse (Zoöl.), an aphid.
 -- Leaf metal, metal in thin leaves, as gold, silver, or tin.
 -- Leaf miner (Zoöl.), any one of various small lepidopterous and
dipterous insects, which, in the larval stages, burrow in and eat the
parenchyma of leaves; as, the pear-tree leaf miner (Lithocolletis
geminatella).
 -- Leaf notcher (Zoöl.), a pale bluish green beetle (Artipus
Floridanus), which, in Florida, eats the edges of the leaves of
orange trees.
 -- Leaf roller (Zoöl.), the larva of any tortricid moth which makes
a nest by rolling up the leaves of plants. See Tortrix.
 -- Leaf scar (Bot.), the cicatrix on a stem whence a leaf has
fallen.
 -- Leaf sewer (Zoöl.), a tortricid moth, whose caterpillar makes a
nest by rolling up a leaf and fastening the edges together with silk,
as if sewn; esp., Phoxopteris nubeculana, which feeds upon the apple
tree.
 -- Leaf sight, a hinges sight on a firearm, which can be raised or
folded down.
 -- Leaf trace (Bot.), one or more fibrovascular bundles, which may
be traced down an endogenous stem from the base of a leaf.
 -- Leaf tier (Zoöl.), a tortricid moth whose larva makes a nest by
fastening the edges of a leaf together with silk; esp., Teras
cinderella, found on the apple tree.
 -- Leaf valve, a valve which moves on a hinge.
 -- Leaf wasp (Zoöl.), a sawfiy.
 -- To turn over a new leaf, to make a radical change for the better
in one's way of living or doing. [Colloq.]
They were both determined to turn over a new leaf. Richardson.

LEAF
Leaf, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leafed; p. pr. & vb. n. Leafing.]

Defn: To shoot out leaves; to produce leaves; to leave; as, the trees
leaf in May. Sir T. Browne.

LEAFAGE
Leaf"age, n.

Defn: Leaves, collectively; foliage.

LEAFCUP
Leaf"cup`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse American composite weed (Polymnia Uvedalia).

LEAFED
Leafed, a.

Defn: Having (such) a leaf or (so many) leaves; -- used in
composition; as, broad-leafed; four-leafed.

LEAFET
Leaf"et, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A leaflet.

LEAF-FOOTED
Leaf"-foot`ed, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having leaflike expansions on the legs; -- said of certain
insects; as, the leaf-footed bug (Leptoglossus phyllopus).

LEAFINESS
Leaf"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being leafy.

LEAFLESS
Leaf"less, a.

Defn: Having no leaves or foliage; bearing no foliage. "Leafless
groves." Cowper.
 -- Leaf"less*ness, n. Leafless plants, plants having no foliage,
though leaves may be present in the form of scales and bracts. See
Leaf, n., 1 and 2.

LEAFLET
Leaf"let, n.

1. A little leaf; also, a little printed leaf or a tract.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the divisions of a compound leaf; a foliole.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A leaflike organ or part; as, a leaflet of the gills of fishes.

LEAF-NOSED
Leaf"-nosed`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a leaflike membrane on the nose; -- said of certain
bats, esp. of the genera Phyllostoma and Rhinonycteris. See Vampire.

LEAFSTALK
Leaf"stalk`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The stalk or petiole which supports a leaf.

LEAFY
Leaf"y, a. [Compar. Leafier; superl. Leafiest.]

1. Full of leaves; abounding in leaves; as, the leafy forest. "The
leafy month of June." Coleridge.

2. Consisting of leaves. "A leafy bed." Byron.

LEAGUE
League, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. legue, lieue, a measure of length, F.
lieue, Pr. lega, legua, It. & LL. lega, Sp. legua, Pg. legoa, legua;
all fr. LL. leuca, of Celtic origin: cf. Arm. leo, lev (perh. from
French), Ir.leige (perh. from English); also Ir. & Gael. leac a flag,
a broad, flat stone, W. llech, -- such stones having perh. served as
a sort of milestone (cf. Cromlech).]

1. A measure of length or distance, varying in different countries
from about 2.4 to 4.6 English statute miles of 5.280 feet each, and
used (as a land measure) chiefly on the continent of Europe, and in
the Spanish parts of America. The marine league of England and the
United States is equal to three marine, or geographical, miles of
6080 feet each.

Note: The English land league is equal to three English statute
miles. The Spanish and French leagues vary in each country according
to usage and the kind of measurement to which they are applied. The
Dutch and German leagues contain about four geographical miles, or
about 4.6 English statute miles.

2. A stone erected near a public road to mark the distance of a
league. [Obs.]

LEAGUE
League, n. Etym: [F.ligue, LL. liga, fr. L. ligare to bind; cf. Sp.
liga. Cf. Ally a confederate, Ligature.]

Defn: An alliance or combination of two or more nations, parties, or
persons, for the accomplishment of a purpose which requires a
continued course of action, as for mutual defense, or for furtherance
of commercial, religious, or political interests, etc.
And let there be 'Twixt us and them no league, nor amity. Denham.

Note: A league may be offensive or defensive, or both; offensive,
when the parties agree to unite in attacking a common enemy;
defensive, when they agree to a mutual defense of each other against
an enemy. The Holy League, an alliance of Roman Catholics formed in
1576 by influence of the Duke of Guise for the exclusion of
Protestants from the throne of France.
 -- Solemn League and Covenant. See Covenant,2.
 -- The land league, an association, organized in Dublin in 1879, to
promote the interests of the Irish tenantry, its avowed objects being
to secure fixity of tenure fair rent, and free sale of the tenants'
interest. It was declared illegal by Parliament, but vigorous
prosecutions have failed to suppress it.

Syn.
 -- Alliance; confederacy; confederation; coalition; combination;
compact; coöperation.

LEAGUE
League, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leagued; p. pr. & vb. n. Leaguing.] Etym:
[Cf. F. se liguer. See 2d League.]

Defn: To unite in a league or confederacy; to combine for mutual
support; to confederate South.

LEAGUE
League, v. t.

Defn: To join in a league; to cause to combine for a joint purpose;
to combine; to unite; as, common interests will league heterogeneous
elements.

LEAGUER
Lea"guer, n. Etym: [D.leger camp, bed, couch, lair. See Lair, and
cf.Beleaguer.]

1. The camp of a besieging army; a camp in general. b. Jonson.

2. A siege or beleaguering. [R.] Sir W. Scott.

LEAGUER
Lea"guer, v. t.

Defn: To besiege; to beleaguer. [Obs.]

LEAGUERER
Lea"guer*er, n.

Defn: A besieger. [R.] J. Webster.

LEAK
Leak, n. Etym: [Akin to D. lek leaky, a leak, G.leck, Icel. lekr
leaky, Dan. læk leaky, a leak, Sw. läck; cf. AS. hlec full of cracks
or leaky. Cf. Leak, v.]

1. A crack, crevice, fissure, or hole which admits water or other
fluid, or lets it escape; as, a leak in a roof; a leak in a boat; a
leak in a gas pipe. "One leak will sink a ship." Bunyan.

2. The entrance or escape of a fluid through a crack, fissure, or
other aperture; as, the leak gained on the ship's pumps. To spring a
leak, to open or crack so as to let in water; to begin to let in
water; as, the ship sprung a leak.

LEAK
Leak, a.

Defn: Leaky. [Obs.] Spenser.

LEAK
Leak, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Leaking.] Etym:
[Akin to D. lekken, G. lecken, lechen, Icel. leka, Dan. lække, Sw.
läcka, AS. leccan to wet, moisten. See Leak, n.]

1. To let water or other fluid in or out through a hole, crevice,
etc.; as, the cask leaks; the roof leaks; the boat leaks.

2. To enter or escape, as a fluid, through a hole, crevice, etc. ; to
pass gradually into, or out of, something; -- usually with in or out.
To leak out, to be divulged gradually or clandestinely; to become
public; as, the facts leaked out.

LEAKAGE
Leak"age (, n. Etym: [Cf. D. lekkage, for sense 1.]

1. A leaking; also, the quantity that enters or issues by leaking.

2. (Com.)

Defn: An allowance of a certain rate per cent for the leaking of
casks, or waste of liquors by leaking.

LEAKINESS
Leak"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being leaky.

LEAKY
Leak"y, a. [Compar. Leakier; superl. Leakiest.]

1. Permitting water or other fluid to leak in or out; as, a leaky
roof or cask.

2. Apt to disclose secrets; tattling; not close. [Colloq.]

LEAL
Leal, a. Etym: [OE. leial, another form of loial, F. loyal. See
Loyal.]

Defn: Faithful; loyal; true.
All men true and leal, all women pure. Tennyson.
Land of the leal, the place of the faithful; heaven.

LEAM
Leam, n. & v. i.

Defn: See Leme. [Obs.] Holland.

LEAM
Leam, n. Etym: [See Leamer, Lien.]

Defn: A cord or strap for leading a dog. Sir W. Scott.

LEAMER
Leam"er, n. Etym: [F. limier, OF. liemier, fr. L. ligamen band,
bandage. See Lien.]

Defn: A dog held by a leam.

LEAN
Lean, v. t. Etym: [Icel. leyna; akin to G. läugnen to deny, AS. l,
also E. lie to speak falsely.]

Defn: To conceal. [Obs.] Ray.

LEAN
Lean, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leaned, sometimes Leant (p. pr. & vb. n.
Leaning.] Etym: [OE. lenen, AS. hlinian, hleonian, v. i.; akin to OS.
hlinon, D. leunen, OHG. hlinen, linen, G. lehnen, L. inclinare, Gr.
clivus hill, slope. sq. root40. Cf. Declivity, Climax, Incline,
Ladder.]

1. To incline, deviate, or bend, from a vertical position; to be in a
position thus inclining or deviating; as, she leaned out at the
window; a leaning column. "He leant forward." Dickens.

2. To incline in opinion or desire; to conform in conduct; -- with
to, toward, etc.
They delight rather to lean to their old customs. Spenser.

3. To rest or rely, for support, comfort, and the like; -- with on,
upon, or against.
He leaned not on his fathers but himself. Tennyson.

LEAN
Lean, v. t. Etym: [From Lean, v. i. ; AS. hl, v. t., fr. hleonian,
hlinian, v. i.]

Defn: To cause to lean; to incline; to support or rest. Mrs.
Browning.
His fainting limbs against an oak he leant. Dryden.

LEAN
Lean, a. [Compar. Leaner; superl. Leanest.] Etym: [OE. lene, AS. hl;
prob. akin to E. lean to incline. See Lean, v. i. ]

1. Wanting flesh; destitute of or deficient in fat; not plump;
meager; thin; lank; as, a lean body; a lean cattle.

2. Wanting fullness, richness, sufficiency, or productiveness;
deficient in quality or contents; slender; scant; barren; bare; mean;
-- used literally and figuratively; as, the lean harvest; a lean
purse; a lean discourse; lean wages. "No lean wardrobe." Shak.
Their lean and fiashy songs. Milton.
What the land is, whether it be fat or lean. Num. xiii. 20.
Out of my lean and low ability I'll lend you something. Shak.

3. (Typog.)

Defn: Of a character which prevents the compositor from earning the
usual wages; -- opposed to fat; as lean copy, matter, or type.

Syn.
 -- slender; spare; thin; meager; lank; skinny; gaunt.

LEAN
Lean, n.

1. That part of flesh which consist principally of muscle without the
fat.
The fat was so white and the lean was so ruddy. Goldsmith.

2. (Typog.)

Defn: Unremunerative copy or work.

LEAN-FACED
Lean"-faced`, a.

1. Having a thin face.

2. (Typog.)

Defn: slender or narrow; -- said of type the letters of which have
thin lines, or are unusually narrow in proportion to their height. W.
Savage.

LEANING
Lean"ing, n.

Defn: The act, or state, of inclining; inclination; tendency; as, a
leaning towards Calvinism.

LEANLY
Lean"ly, adv.

Defn: Meagerly; without fat or plumpness.

LEANNESS
Lean"ness, n. Etym: [AS. hlænnes.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being lean.

LEAN-TO
Lean"-to`, a. (Arch.)

Defn: Having only one slope or pitch; -- said of a roof.
 -- n.

Defn: A shed or slight building placed against the wall of a larger
structure and having a single-pitched roof; -- called also penthouse,
and to-fall.
The outer circuit was covered as a lean-to, all round this inner
apartment. De Foe.

LEAN-WITTED
Lean"-wit`ted, a.

Defn: Having but little sense or shrewdness.

LEANY
Lean"y, a.

Defn: Lean. [Obs.] Spenser.

LEAP
Leap, n. Etym: [AS. leáp.]

1. A basket. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. A weel or wicker trap for fish. [Prov. Eng.]

LEAP
Leap, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leaped, rarely Leapt; p. pr. & vb. n.
Leaping.] Etym: [OE. lepen, leapen, AS. hleápan to leap, jump, run;
akin to OS. ahl, OFries. hlapa, D. loopen, G. laufen, OHG. louffan,
hlauffan, Icel. hlaupa, Sw. löpa, Dan. löbe, Goth. ushlaupan. Cf.
Elope, Lope, Lapwing, Loaf to loiter.]

1. To spring clear of the ground, with the feet; to jump; to vault;
as, a man leaps over a fence, or leaps upon a horse. Bacon.
Leap in with me into this angry flood. Shak.

2. To spring or move suddenly, as by a jump or by jumps; to bound; to
move swiftly. Also Fig.
My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky. Wordsworth.

LEAP
Leap, v. t.

1. To pass over by a leap or jump; as, to leap a wall, or a ditch.

2. To copulate with (a female beast); to cover.

3. To cause to leap; as, to leap a horse across a ditch.

LEAP
Leap, n.

1. The act of leaping, or the space passed by leaping; a jump; a
spring; a bound.
Wickedness comes on by degrees, . . . and sudden leaps from one
extreme to another are unnatural. L'Estrange.
Changes of tone may proceed either by leaps or glides. H. Sweet.

2. Copulation with, or coverture of, a female beast.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A fault.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: A passing from one note to another by an interval, especially
by a long one, or by one including several other and intermediate
intervals.

LEAPER
Leap"er, n. Etym: [AS. hleápere.]

Defn: One who, or that which, leaps.

LEAPER
Leap"er, n. Etym: [See 1st Leap.]

Defn: A kind of hooked instrument for untwisting old cordage.

LEAPFROG
Leap"frog`, n.

Defn: A play among boys, in which one stoops down and another leaps
over him by placing his hands on the shoulders of the former.

LEAPFUL
Leap"ful, n. Etym: [See 1st Leap.]

Defn: A basketful. [Obs.]

LEAPING
Leap"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Leap, to jump. Leaping house, a brothel. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- Leaping pole, a pole used in some games of leaping.
 -- Leaping spider (Zoöl.), a jumping spider; one of the Saltigradæ.

LEAPINGLY
Leap"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By leaps.

LEAP YEAR
Leap" year`

Defn: . Bissextile; a year containing 366 days; every fourth year
which leaps over a day more than a common year, giving to February
twenty-nine days. See Bissextile.

Note: Every year whose number is divisible by four without a
remainder is a leap year, excepting the full centuries, which, to be
leap years, must be divisible by 400 without a remainder. If not so
divisible they are common years. 1900, therefore, is not a leap year.

LEAR
Lear, v. t.

Defn: To learn. See Lere, to learn. [Obs.]

LEAR
Lear, n.

Defn: Lore; lesson. [Obs.] Spenser.

LEAR
Lear, a.

Defn: See Leer, a. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

LEAR
Lear, n.

Defn: An annealing oven. See Leer, n.

LEARN
Learn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Learned, or Learnt (p. pr. & vb. n.
Learning.] Etym: [OE. lernen, leornen, AS. leornian; akin to OS.
linon, for lirnon, OHG. lirnen, lernen, G. lernen, fr. the root of
AS. l to teach, OS. lerian, OHG.leran, G. lehren, Goth. laisjan, also
Goth lais I know, leis acquainted (in comp.); all prob. from a root
meaning, to go, go over, and hence, to learn; cf. AS. leoran to go .
Cf. Last a mold of the foot, lore.]

1. To gain knowledge or information of; to ascertain by inquiry,
study, or investigation; to receive instruction concerning; to fix in
the mind; to acquire understanding of, or skill; as, to learn the
way; to learn a lesson; to learn dancing; to learn to skate; to learn
the violin; to learn the truth about something. "Learn to do well."
Is. i. 17.
Now learn a parable of the fig tree. Matt. xxiv. 32.

2. To communicate knowledge to; to teach. [Obs.]
Hast thou not learned me how To make perfumes Shak.

Note: Learn formerly had also the sense of teach, in accordance with
the analogy of the French and other languages, and hence we find it
with this sense in Shakespeare, Spenser, and other old writers. This
usage has now passed away. To learn is to receive instruction, and to
teach is to give instruction. He who is taught learns, not he who
teaches.

LEARN
Learn, v. i.

Defn: To acquire knowledge or skill; to make progress in acquiring
knowledge or skill; to receive information or instruction; as, this
child learns quickly.
Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. Matt. xi. 29.
To learn by heart. See By heart, under Heart.
 -- To learn by rote, to memorize by repetition without exercise of
the understanding.

LEARNABLE
Learn"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be learned.

LEARNED
Learn"ed, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to learning; possessing, or characterized by,
learning, esp. scholastic learning; erudite; well-informed; as, a
learned scholar, writer, or lawyer; a learned book; a learned theory.
The learnedlover lost no time. Spenser.
Men of much reading are greatly learned, but may be little knowing.
Locke.
Words of learned length and thundering sound. Goldsmith.
The learned, learned men; men of erudition; scholars.
 -- Learn"ed*ly, adv. Learn"ed*ness, n.
Every coxcomb swears as learnedly as they. Swift.

LEARNER
Learn"er, n.

Defn: One who learns; a scholar.

LEARNING
Learn"ing, n. Etym: [AS. leornung.]

1. The acquisition of knowledge or skill; as, the learning of
languages; the learning of telegraphy.

2. The knowledge or skill received by instruction or study; acquired
knowledge or ideas in any branch of science or literature; erudition;
literature; science; as, he is a man of great learning. Book
learning. See under Book.

Syn.
 -- Literature; erudition; lore; scholarship; science; letters. See
Literature.

LEASABLE
Leas"a*ble, a. Etym: [From 2d Lease.]

Defn: Such as can be leased.

LEASE
Lease, v. i. Etym: [AS. lesan to gather; akin to D. lezen to gather,
read, G. lesen, Goth. lisan to gather; cf. Lith lesti to peck.]

Defn: To gather what harvesters have left behind; to glean. [Obs.]
Dryden.

LEASE
Lease, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leased; p. pr. & vb. n. Leasing.] Etym:
[F.laisser, OF. laissier, lessier, to leave, transmit, L. laxare to
loose, slacken, from laxus loose, wide. See Lax, and cf. Lesser.]

1. To grant to another by lease the possession of, as of lands,
tenements, and hereditaments; to let; to demise; as, a landowner
leases a farm to a tenant; -- sometimes with out.
There were some [houses] that were leased out for three lives.
Addison.

2. To hold under a lease; to take lease of; as, a tenant leases his
land from the owner.

LEASE
Lease, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. lais. See Lease, v. t.]

1. A demise or letting of lands, tenements, or hereditaments to
another for life, for a term of years, or at will, or for any less
interest than that which the lessor has in the property, usually for
a specified rent or compensation.

2. The contract for such letting.

3. Any tenure by grant or permission; the time for which such a
tenure holds good; allotted time.
Our high-placed Macbeth Shall live the lease of nature. Shak.
Lease and release a mode of conveyance of freehold estates, formerly
common in England and in New York. its place is now supplied by a
simple deed of grant. Burrill. Warren's Blackstone.

LEASEHOLD
Lease"hold`, a.

Defn: Held by lease.

LEASEHOLD
Lease"hold`, n.

Defn: A tenure by lease; specifically, land held as personalty under
a lease for years.

LEASEHOLDER
Lease"hold`er, n.

Defn: A tenant under a lease.
 -- Lease"hold`ing, a. & n.

LEASER
Leas"er, n. Etym: [From 1st Lease.]

Defn: One who leases or gleans. [Obs.] Swift.

LEASER
Leas"er, n.

Defn: A liar. [Obs.] See Leasing.

LEASH
Leash, n. Etym: [OE. lese, lees, leece, OF. lesse, F. laisse,
LL.laxa, fr. L. laxus loose. See Lax.]

1. A thong of leather, or a long cord, by which a falconer holds his
hawk, or a courser his dog.
Even like a fawning greyhound in the leash. Shak.

2. (Sporting)

Defn: A brace and a half; a tierce; three; three creatures of any
kind, especially greyhounds, foxes, bucks, and hares; hence, the
number three in general.
[I] kept my chamber a leash of days. B. Jonson.
Then were I wealthier than a leash of kings. Tennyson.

3. (Weaving)

Defn: A string with a loop at the end for lifting warp threads, in a
loom.

LEASH
Leash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Leashing.]

Defn: To tie together, or hold, with a leash.

LEASING
Leas"ing, n. Etym: [AS. leásung, fr. leás loose, false, deceitful.
See -less, Loose, a.]

Defn: The act of lying; falsehood; a lie or lies. [Archaic] Spenser.
Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing. Ps. v. 6.
Blessed be the lips that such a leasing told. Fairfax.
Leasing making (Scots Law), the uttering of lies or libels upon the
personal character of the sovereign, his court, or his family. Bp.
Burnet.

LEASOW
Lea"sow, n. Etym: [AS. lesu, læsu.]

Defn: A pasture. [Obs.]

LEAST
Least, a. Etym: [OE. last, lest, AS. l, l, superl. of l less. See
Less, a.] [Used as the superlative of little.]

Defn: Smallest, either in size or degree; shortest; lowest; most
unimportant; as, the least insect; the least mercy; the least space.

Note: Least is often used with the, as if a noun.
I am the least of the apostles. 1 Cor. xv. 9.
At least, or At the least, at the least estimate, consideration,
chance, etc.; hence, at any rate; at all events; even. See However.
He who tempts, though in vain, at least asperses The tempted with
dishonor. Milton.
Upon the mast they saw a young man, at least if he were a man, who
sat as on horseback. Sir P. Sidney.
-- In least, or In the least, in the least degree, manner, etc. "He
that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much." Luke xvi. 10.
 -- Least squares (Math.), a method of deducing from a number of
carefully made yet slightly discordant observations of a phenomenon
the most probable values of the unknown quantities.

Note: It takes as its fundamental principle that the most probable
values are those which make the sum of the squares of the residual
errors of the observation a minimum.

LEAST
Least, adv.

Defn: In the smallest or lowest degree; in a degree below all others;
as, to reward those who least deserve it.

LEAST
Least, conj.

Defn: See Lest, conj. [Obs.] Spenser.

LEASTWAYS; LEASTWISE
Least"ways`, Least"wise`, adv.

Defn: At least; at all events. [Colloq.] At leastways, or At
leastwise, at least. [Obs.] Fuller.

LEASY
Lea"sy, a. Etym: [AS. leás void, loose, false. Cf. Leasing.]

Defn: Flimsy; vague; deceptive. [Obs.] Ascham.

LEAT
Leat, n. Etym: [Cf. Lead to conduct.]

Defn: An artificial water trench, esp. one to or from a mill. C.
Kingsley.

LEATHER
Leath"er, n. Etym: [OE. lether, AS. le; akin to D. leder, leêr, G.
leder, OHG. ledar, Icel. le, Sw. läder, Dan. læder.]

1. The skin of an animal, or some part of such skin, tanned, tawed,
or otherwise dressed for use; also, dressed hides, collectively.

2. The skin. [Ironical or Sportive]

Note: Leather is much used adjectively in the sense of made of,
relating to, or like, leather. Leather board, an imitation of sole
leather, made of leather scraps, rags, paper, etc.
 -- Leather carp (Zoöl.) , a variety of carp in which the scales are
all, or nearly all, absent. See Illust. under Carp.
 -- Leather jacket. (Zoöl.) (a) A California carangoid fish
(Oligoplites saurus). (b) A trigger fish (Balistes Carolinensis).
 -- Leather flower (Bot.), a climbing plant (Clematis Viorna) of the
Middle and Southern States having thick, leathery sepals of a
purplish color.
 -- Leather leaf (Bot.), a low shrub (Cassandra calyculata), growing
in Northern swamps, and having evergreen, coriaceous, scurfy leaves.
 -- Leather plant (Bot.), one or more New Zealand plants of the
composite genus Celmisia, which have white or buff tomentose leaves.
 -- Leather turtle. (Zoöl.) See Leatherback.
 -- Vegetable leather. (a) An imitation of leather made of cotton
waste. (b) Linen cloth coated with India rubber. Ure.

LEATHER
Leath"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leathered; p. pr. & vb. n. Leathering.]

Defn: To beat, as with a thong of leather. [Obs. or Colloq.] G.
Eliot.

LEATHERBACK
Leath"er*back`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large sea turtle (Sphargis coriacea), having no bony shell on
its back. It is common in the warm and temperate parts of the
Atlantic, and sometimes weighs over a thousand pounds; -- called also
leather turtle, leathery turtle, leather-backed tortoise, etc.

LEATHERET; LEATHERETTE
Leath"er*et, Leath`er*ette", n. Etym: [Leather + et, F. -ette.]

Defn: An imitation of leather, made of paper and cloth.

LEATHERHEAD
Leath"er*head`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The friar bird.

LEATHERN
Leath"ern, a.

Defn: Made of leather; consisting of. leather; as, a leathern purse.
"A leathern girdle about his loins." Matt. iii. 4.

LEATHERNECK
Leath"er*neck`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sordid friar bird of Australia (Tropidorhynchus sordidus).

LEATHERWOOD
Leath"er*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small branching shrub (Dirca palustris), with a white, soft
wood, and a tough, leathery bark, common in damp woods in the
Northern United States; -- called also moosewood, and wicopy. Gray.

LEATHERY
Leath"er*y, a.

Defn: Resembling leather in appearance or consistence; tough. "A
leathery skin." Grew.

LEAVE
Leave, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leaved; p. pr. & vb. n. Leaving]

Defn: To send out leaves; to leaf; -- often with out. G. Fletcher.

LEAVE
Leave, v. t. Etym: [See Levy.]

Defn: To raise; to levy. [Obs.]
An army strong she leaved. Spenser.

LEAVE
Leave, n. Etym: [OE. leve, leave, AS. leáf; akin to leóf pleasing,
dear, E. lief, D. oorlof leave, G. arlaub, and erlauben to permit,
Icel. leyfi. Lief.]

1. Liberty granted by which restraint or illegality is removed;
permission; allowance; license.
David earnestly asked leave of me. 1 Sam. xx. 6.
No friend has leave to bear away the dead. Dryden.

2. The act of leaving or departing; a formal parting; a leaving;
farewell; adieu; -- used chiefly in the phrase, to take leave, i. e.,
literally, to take permission to go.
A double blessing is a'double grace; Occasion smiles upon a second
leave. Shak.
And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then took his
leave of the brethren. Acts xviii. 18.
French leave. See under French.

Syn.
 -- See Liberty.

LEAVE
Leave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Left; p. pr. & vb. n. Leaving.] Etym: [OE.
leven, AS. l, fr. laf remnant, heritage; akin to lifian, libban, to
live, orig., to remain; cf. belifan to remain, G. bleiben, Goth.
bileiban. Live, v.]

1. To withdraw one's self from; to go away from; to depart from; as,
to leave the house.
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall
cleave unto his wife. Gen. ii. 24.

2. To let remain unremoved or undone; to let stay or continue, in
distinction from what is removed or changed.
If grape gatherers come to thee, would they not leave some gleaning
grapes Jer. xlix. 9.
These ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. Matt.
xxiii. 23.
Besides it leaveth a suspicion, as if more might be said than is
expressed. Bacon.

3. To cease from; to desist from; to abstain from.
Now leave complaining and begin your tea. Pope.

4. To desert; to abandon; to forsake; hence, to give up; to
relinquish.
Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee. Mark x. 28.
The heresies that men do leave. Shak.

5. To let be or do without interference; as, I left him to his
reflections; I leave my hearers to judge.
I will leave you now to your gossiplike humor. Shak.

6. To put; to place; to deposit; to deliver; to commit; to submit --
with a sense of withdrawing one's self from; as, leave your hat in
the hall; we left our cards; to leave the matter to arbitrators.
Leave there thy gift before the altar and go thy way. Matt. v. 24.
The foot That leaves the print of blood where'er it walks. Shak.

7. To have remaining at death; hence, to bequeath; as, he left a
large estate; he left a good name; he left a legacy to his niece. To
leave alone. (a) To leave in solitude. (b) To desist or refrain from
having to do with; as, to leave dangerous chemicals alone.
 -- To leave off. (a) To desist from; to forbear; to stop; as, to
leave off work at six o'clock. (b) To cease wearing or using; to omit
to put in the usual position; as, to leave off a garment; to leave
off the tablecloth. (c) To forsake; as, to leave off a bad habit.
 -- To leave out, to omit; as, to leave out a word or name in
writing.
 -- To leave to one's self, to let (one) be alone; to cease caring
for (one).

Syn. - To quit; depart from; forsake; abandon; relinquish; deliver;
bequeath; give up; forego; resign; surrender; forbear. See Quit.

LEAVE
Leave, v. i.

1. To depart; to set out. [Colloq.]
By the time I left for Scotland. Carlyle.

2. To cease; to desist; to leave off. "He . . . began at the eldest,
and left at the youngest." Gen. xliv. 12. To leave off, to cease; to
desist; to stop.
Leave off, and for another summons wait. Roscommon.

LEAVED
Leaved, a. Etym: [From Leaf.]

Defn: Bearing, or having, a leaf or leaves; having folds; -- used in
combination; as, a four-leaved clover; a two-leaved gate; long-
leaved.

LEAVELESS
Leave"less, a.

Defn: Leafless. [Obs.] Carew.

LEAVEN
Leav"en, n. Etym: [OE. levain, levein, F. levain, L. levamen
alleviation, mitigation; but taken in the sense of, a raising, that
which raises, fr. levare to raise. See Lever, n.]

1. Any substance that produces, or is designed to produce,
fermentation, as in dough or liquids; esp., a portion of fermenting
dough, which, mixed with a larger quantity of dough, produces a
general change in the mass, and renders it light; yeast; barm.

2. Anything which makes a general assimilating (especially a
corrupting) change in the mass.
Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. Luke xii.
1.

LEAVEN
Leav"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leavened; p. pr. & vb. n. Leavening.]

1. To make light by the action of leaven; to cause to ferment.
A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. 1 Cor. v. 6.

2. To imbue; to infect; to vitiate.
With these and the like deceivable doctrines, he leavens also his
prayer. Milton.

LEAVENING
Leav"en*ing, n.

1. The act of making light, or causing to ferment, by means of
leaven.

2. That which leavens or makes light. Bacon.

LEAVENOUS
Leav"en*ous, a.

Defn: Containing leaven. Milton.

LEAVER
Leav"er, n.

Defn: One who leaves, or withdraws.

LEAVES
Leaves, n.,

Defn: pl. of Leaf.

LEAVE-TAKING
Leave"-tak`ing, n.

Defn: Taking of leave; parting compliments. Shak.

LEAVINESS
Leav"i*ness, n. Etym: [Fr. Leaf.]

Defn: Leafiness.[Obs.]

LEAVINGS
Leav"ings, n. pl.

1. Things left; remnants; relics.

2. Refuse; offal.

LEAVY
Leav"y, a.

Defn: Leafy. [Obs.] Chapman.

LEBAN; LEBBAN
Leb"an, Leb"ban, n.

Defn: Coagulated sour milk diluted with water; -- a common beverage
among the Arabs. Also, a fermented liquor made of the same.

LECAMA
Le*ca"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hartbeest.

LECANOMANCY
Le*can"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: divination practiced with water in a basin, by throwing three
stones into it, and invoking the demon whose aid was sought.

LECANORIC
Lec`a*no"ric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid which is
obtained from several varieties of lichen (Lecanora, Roccella, etc.),
as a white, crystalline substance, and is called also orsellic, or
diorsellinic acid, lecanorin, etc.

LECANORIN
Lec`a*no"rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Lecanoric.

LECH
Lech, v. t. Etym: [F. lécher. See Lick.]

Defn: To lick. [Obs.]

LECHE
Le*che", n.

Defn: See water buck, under 3d Buck.

LECHER
Lech"er, n. Etym: [OE.lechur, lechour, OF.lecheor, lecheur, gormand,
glutton, libertine, parasite, fr. lechier to lick, F. lécher; of
Teutonic origin. See Lick.]

Defn: A man given to lewdness; one addicted, in an excessive degree,
to the indulgence of sexual desire, or to illicit commerce with
women.

LECHER
Lech"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lechered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lechering.]

Defn: To practice lewdness.

LECHERER
Lech"er*er, n.

Defn: See Lecher, n. Marston.

LECHEROUS
Lech"er*ous, a.

Defn: Like a lecher; addicted to lewdness; lustful; also, lust-
provoking. "A lecherous thing is wine." Chaucer.
 -- Lech"er*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Lech"er*ous*ness, n.

LECHERY
Lech"er*y, n. Etym: [OE. lecherie, OF. lecherie. See Lecher.]

1. Free indulgence of lust; lewdness.

2. Selfish pleasure; delight. [Obs.] Massinger.

LECITHIN
Lec"i*thin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A complex, nitrogenous phosphorized substance widely
distributed through the animal body, and especially conspicuous in
the brain and nerve tissue, in yolk of eggs, and in the white blood
corpuscles.

LECTERN
lec"tern, n.

Defn: See Lecturn.

LECTICA
Lec*ti"ca, n.; pl. Lecticæ. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A kind of litter or portable couch.

LECTION
Lec"tion, n. Etym: [L. lectio, fr. legere, lectum, to read. See
lesson, Legend.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: A lesson or selection, esp. of Scripture, read in divine
service.

2. A reading; a variation in the text.
We ourselves are offended by the obtrusion of the new lections into
the text. De Quincey.

LECTIONARY
Lec"tion*a*ry, n.; pl. -ries. Etym: [LL. lectionarium, lectionarius :
cf. F. lectionnaire.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A book, or a list, of lections, for reading in divine service.

LECTOR
Lec"tor, n. Etym: [L. See Lection.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A reader of lections; formerly, a person designated to read
lessons to the illiterate.

LECTUAL
Lec"tu*al, a. Etym: [LL. lectualis, fr. L. lectus bed.] (Med.)

Defn: Confining to the bed; as, a lectual disease.

LECTURE
Lec"ture, n. Etym: [F. lecture, LL. lectura, fr. L. legere, lectum,
to read. See Legend.]

1. The act of reading; as, the lecture of Holy Scripture. [Obs.]

2. A discourse on any subject; especially, a formal or methodical
discourse, intended for instruction; sometimes, a familiar discourse,
in contrast with a sermon.

3. A reprimand or formal reproof from one having authority.

4. (Eng. Universities)

Defn: A rehearsal of a lesson.

LECTURE
Lec"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lectured; p. pr. & vb. n. Lecturing.]

1. To read or deliver a lecture to.

2. To reprove formally and with authority.

LECTURE
Lec"ture, v. i.

Defn: To deliver a lecture or lectures.

LECTURER
Lec"tur*er, n.

Defn: One who lectures; an assistant preacher.

LECTURESHIP
Lec"ture*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a lecturer.

LECTURN
Lec"turn, n. Etym: [LL. lectrinum, fr. lectrum; cf. L. legere,
lectum, to read.]

Defn: A choir desk, or reading desk, in some churches, from which the
lections, or Scripture lessons, are chanted or read; hence, a reading
desk. [Written also lectern and lettern]. Fairholt.

LECYTHIS
Lec"y*this, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. 3 an oil flask.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of gigantic trees, chiefly Brazilian, of the order
Myrtaceæ, having woody capsules opening by an apical lid. Lecythis
Zabucajo yields the delicious sapucaia nuts. L. Ollaria produces the
monkey-pots, its capsules. Its bark separates into thin sheets, like
paper, used by the natives for cigarette wrappers.

LED
Led, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Lead. Led captain. An obsequious follower or attendant.
[Obs.] Swift.
 -- Led horse, a sumpter horse, or a spare horse, that is led along.

LEDEN; LEDDEN
Led"en, Led"den n. Etym: [AS. l, l, language, speech. Cf. Leod.]

Defn: Language; speech; voice; cry. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

LEDGE
Ledge, n. Etym: [Akin to AS. licgan to lie, Icel. liggja; cf. Icel.
lögg the ledge or rim at the bottom of a cask. See Lie to be
prostrate.] [Formerly written lidge.]

1. A shelf on which articles may be laid; also, that which resembles
such a shelf in form or use, as a projecting ridge or part, or a
molding or edge in joinery.

2. A shelf, ridge, or reef, of rocks.

3. A layer or stratum.
The lowest ledge or row should be of stone. Sir H. Wotton.

4. (Mining)

Defn: A lode; a limited mass of rock bearing valuable mineral.

5. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A piece of timber to support the deck, placed athwartship
between beams.

LEDGEMENT
Ledge"ment, n.

Defn: See Ledgment.

LEDGER
Ledg"er, n. Etym: [Akin to D. legger layer, daybook (fr. leggen to
lay, liggen to lie), E. ledge, lie. See Lie to be prostrate.]

1. A book in which a summary of accounts is laid up or preserved; the
final book of record in business transactions, in which all debits
and credits from the journal, etc., are placed under appropriate
heads. [Written also leger.]

2. (Arch.)
(a) A large flat stone, esp. one laid over a tomb. Oxf. Gloss.
(b) A horizontal piece of timber secured to the uprights and
supporting floor timbers, a staircase, scaffolding, or the like. It
differs from an intertie in being intended to carry weight. [Written
also ligger.] Ledger bait, fishing bait attached to a floating line
fastened to the bank of a stream, pond, etc. Walton. J. H. Walsh.
 -- Ledger line. See Leger line, under 3d Leger, a.
 -- Ledger wall (Mining), the wall under a vein; the foot wall.
Raymond.

LEDGMENT
Ledg"ment, n. (Arch.)
(a) A string-course or horizontal suit of moldings, such as the base
moldings of a building. Oxf. Gloss.
(b) The development of the surface of a body on a plane, so that the
dimensions of the different sides may be easily ascertained. Gwilt.
[Written also ledgement, legement, and ligement.]

LEDGY
Ledg"y, a.

Defn: Abounding in ledges; consisting of a ledge or reef; as, a ledgy
island.

LEE
Lee, v

Defn: , i, To lie; to speak falsely. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEE
Lee, n.; pl. Lees. Etym: [F. lie, perh. fr. L. levare to lift up,
raise. Cf. Lever.]

Defn: That which settles at the bottom, as, of a cask of liquor (esp.
wine); sediment; dregs; -- used now only in the plural. [Lees occurs
also as a form of the singular.] "The lees of wine." Holland.
A thousand demons lurk within the lee. Young.
The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees Is left this vault to
brag of. Shak.

LEE
Lee, n. Etym: [OE. lee shelter, Icel. hl, akin to AS. hleó, hleów,
shelter, protection, OS. hlèo, D. lij lee, Sw. lä, Dan. læ.]

1. A sheltered place; esp., a place; protected from the wind by some
object; the side sheltered from the wind; shelter; protection; as,
the lee of a mountain, an island, or a ship.
We lurked under lee. Morte d'Arthure.
Desiring me to take shelter in his lee. Tyndall.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: That part of the hemisphere, as one stands on shipboard, toward
which the wind blows. See Lee, a. By the lee, To bring by the lee.
See under By, and Bring.
 -- Under the lee of, on that side which is sheltered from the wind;
as, to be under the lee of a ship.

LEE
Lee, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the part or side opposite to that against
which the wind blows; -- opposed to weather; as, the lee side or lee
rail of a vessel. Lee gauge. See Gauge, n. (Naut.) -- Lee shore, the
shore on the lee side of a vessel.
 -- Lee tide, a tide running in the same direction that the wind
blows.
 -- On the lee beam, directly to the leeward; in a line at right
angles to the length of the vessel and to the leeward.

LEEANGLE; LIANGLE
Lee"an`gle, Li"an`gle, n. [From native name.]

Defn: A heavy weapon of the Australian aborigines with a sharp-
pointed end, about nine inches in length, projecting at right angles
from the main part.

LEEBOARD
Lee"board`, n.

Defn: A board, or frame of planks, lowered over the side of a vessel
to lessen her leeway when closehauled, by giving her greater draught.

LEECH
Leech, n.

Defn: See 2d Leach.

LEECH
Leech, v. t.

Defn: See Leach, v. t.

LEECH
Leech, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. leik, Icel. lik, Sw. lik boltrope, stliken
the leeches.] (Naut.)

Defn: The border or edge at the side of a sail. [Written also leach.]
Leech line, a line attached to the leech ropes of sails, passing up
through blocks on the yards, to haul the leeches by. Totten.
 -- Leech rope, that part of the boltrope to which the side of a sail
is sewed.

LEECH
Leech, n. Etym: [OE. leche, læche, physician, AS. l; akin to Fries.
l, OHG. lahhi, Icel. læknari, Sw. läkare, Dan. læge, Goth. l, AS.
lacnian to heal, Sw. läka, Dan.læge, Icel. lækna, Goth. l.]

1. physician or surgeon; a professor of the art of healing. [Written
also leach.] [Archaic] Spenser.
Leech, heal thyself. Wyclif (Luke iv. 23).

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous genera and species of annulose worms,
belonging to the order Hirudinea, or Bdelloidea, esp. those species
used in medicine, as Hirudo medicinalis of Europe, and allied
species.

Note: In the mouth of bloodsucking leeches are three convergent,
serrated jaws, moved by strong muscles. By the motion of these jaws a
stellate incision is made in the skin, through which the leech sucks
blood till it is gorged, and then drops off. The stomach has large
pouches on each side to hold the blood. The common large bloodsucking
leech of America (Macrobdella decora) is dark olive above, and red
below, with black spots. Many kinds of leeches are parasitic on
fishes; others feed upon worms and mollusks, and have no jaws for
drawing blood. See Bdelloidea. Hirudinea, and Clepsine.

3. (Surg.)

Defn: A glass tube of peculiar construction, adapted for drawing
blood from a scarified part by means of a vacuum. Horse leech, a less
powerful European leech (Hæmopis vorax), commonly attacking the
membrane that lines the inside of the mouth and nostrils of animals
that drink at pools where it lives.

LEECH
Leech, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leeched; p. pr. & vb. n. Leeching.]

1. To treat as a surgeon; to doctor; as, to leech wounds. [Archaic]

2. To bleed by the use of leeches.

LEECHCRAFT
Leech"craft`, n.

Defn: The art of healing; skill of a physician. [Archaic] Chaucer.

LEED; LEEDE
Leed, Leede, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A caldron; a copper kettle. [Obs.] "A furnace of a leed."
Chaucer.

LEEF
Leef, a. & adv.

Defn: See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEEK
Leek, n. Etym: [AS.leác; akin to D. look, G. lauch, OHG. louh, Icel.
laukr, Sw. lök, Dan lög. Cf. Garlic.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Allium (A. Porrum), having broadly linear
succulent leaves rising from a loose oblong cylindrical bulb. The
flavor is stronger than that of the common onion. Wild leek , in
America, a plant (Allium tricoccum) with a cluster of ovoid bulbs and
large oblong elliptical leaves.

LEEME
Leeme, v. & n.

Defn: See Leme. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEEP
Leep, obs. strong imp.

Defn: of Leap. leaped.

LEER
Leer, v. t.

Defn: To learn. [Obs.] See Lere, to learn.

LEER
Leer, a. Etym: [OE. lere; akin to G. leer, OHG. & OS. lari.] [Obs. or
Prov. Eng.]

Defn: Empty; destitute; wanting; as:
(a) Empty of contents. "A leer stomach." Gifford.
(b) Destitute of a rider; and hence, led, not ridden; as, a leer
horse. B. Jonson.
(c) Wanting sense or seriousness; trifling; trivolous; as, leer
words.

LEER
Leer, n.

Defn: An oven in which glassware is annealed.

LEER
Leer, n. Etym: [OE.lere cheek, face, look, AS. hleór cheek, face;
akin to OS. hlear, hlior, OD. lier, Icel. hl.]

1. The cheek. [Obs.] Holinshed.

2. complexion; aspect; appearance. [Obs.]
A Rosalind of a better leer than you. Shak.

3. A distorted expression of the face, or an indirect glance of the
eye, conveying a sinister or immodest suggestion.
With jealous leer malign Eyed them askance. Milton.
She gives the leer of invitation. Shak.
Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer. Pope.

LEER
Leer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leered; p. pr. & vb. n. Leering.]

Defn: To look with a leer; to look askance with a suggestive
expression, as of hatred, contempt, lust, etc. ; to cast a sidelong
lustful or malign look.
I will leer him as a'comes by. Shak.
The priest, above his book, Leering at his neighbor's wife. Tennyson.

LEER
Leer, v. t.

Defn: To entice with a leer, or leers; as, to leer a man to ruin.
Dryden.

LEERE
Leere, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Tape or braid; an ornament. Halliwell. Leere side, the left
side, as that on which a leere or ornament was worn. B. Jonson.

LEERINGLY
Leer"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a leering manner.

LEES
Lees, n. pl.

Defn: Dregs. See 2d Lee.

LEES
Lees, n.

Defn: A leash. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEESE
Leese, v. t. Etym: [See Lose.]

Defn: To lose. [Obs.]
They would rather leese their friend than their jest. Lord Burleigh.

LEESE
Leese, v. t. Etym: [Cf. f. léser, L.laesus, p. p. of laedere.]

Defn: To hurt. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

LEET
Leet, obs. imp.

Defn: of Let, to allow. Chaucer.

LEET
Leet n. Etym: [Cf. AS. hl share, lot.]

Defn: A portion; a list, esp. a list of candidates for an office.
[Scot.]

LEET
Leet, n. Etym: [LL.leta. Cf. F. lit de justice a solemn sitting of
the king in Parliament, L. lis, litis, a lawsuit, It., Sp., & Pg.
lite.] (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A court-leet; the district within the jurisdiction of a court-
leet; the day on which a court-leet is held. Shak.

Note: The original intent of the court-leet was to view the
frankpledges or freemen within the liberty; hence called the view of
frankpledge. Latterly it has fallen into almost entire disuse.
Burrill. Warren's Blackstone. Leet ale, a feast or merrymaking in
time of leet. [Obs.]

LEET
Leet, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European pollock.

LEETMAN
Leet"man, n.; pl. Leetmen (.

Defn: One subject to the jurisdiction of a court-leet.

LEEWARD
Lee"ward, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the part or side toward
which the wind blows; -- opposed to windward; as, a leeward berth; a
leeward ship.
 -- n.

Defn: The lee side; the lee.
 -- adv.

Defn: Toward the lee.

LEEWAY
Lee"way`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The lateral movement of a ship to the leeward of her course;
drift.

LEFT
Left, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Leave.

LEFT
Left, a. Etym: [OE. left, lift, luft; akin to Fries. leeft, OD.lucht,
luft; cf. AS.left (equiv. to L. inanis), lyftadl palsy; or cf. AS.l
weak.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to that side of the body in man on which the
muscular action of the limbs is usually weaker than on the other
side; -- opposed to right, when used in reference to a part of the
body; as, the left ear. Also said of the corresponding side of the
lower animals. Left bank of a river, that which is on the left hand
of a person whose face is turned downstream.
 -- Left bower. See under 2d Bower.
 -- Left center, the members whose sympathies are, in the main, with
the members of the Left, but who do not favor extreme courses, and on
occasions vote with the government. They sit between the Center and
the extreme Left.
 -- Over the left shoulder, or Over the left, an old but still
current colloquialism, or slang expression, used as an aside to
indicate insincerity, negation, or disbelief; as, he said it, and it
is true, -- over the left.

LEFT
Left, n.

1. that part of surrounding space toward which the left side of one's
body is turned; as, the house is on the left when you face North.
Put that rose a little more to the left. Ld. Lytton.

2. those members of a legislative assembly (as in France) who are in
the opposition; the advanced republicans and extreme radicals. They
have their seats at the left-hand side of the presiding officer. See
Center, and Right.

LEFT-HAND
Left"-hand`, a.

Defn: Situated on the left; nearer the left hand than the right; as,
the left-hand side; the left-hand road. Left-hand rope, rope laid up
and twisted over from right to left, or against the sun; -- called
also water-laid rope.

LEFT-HANDED
Left"-hand`ed, a.

1. Having the left hand or arm stronger and more dexterous than the
right; using the left hand and arm with more dexterity than the
right.

2. Clumsy; awkward; unlucky; insincere; sinister; malicious; as, a
left-handed compliment.
The commendations of this people are not always left-handed and
detractive. Landor.

3. Having a direction contrary to that of the hands of a watch when
seen in front; -- said of a twist, a rotary motion, etc., looked at
from a given direction. Left-handed marriage, a morganatic marriage.
See Morganatic.
 -- Left-handed screw, a screw constructed to advance away from the
observer, when turned, as in a nut, with a left-handed rotation. An
ordinary wood screw is right-handed.

LEFT-HANDEDNESS; LEFT-HANDINESS
Left"-hand`ed*ness, Left"-hand`i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being left-handed; awkwardness.
An awkward address, ungraceful attitudes and actions, and a certain
left-handiness (if I may use the expression) proclaim low education.
Chesterfield.

LEFT-OFF
Left"-off", a.

Defn: Laid a side; cast-off.

LEFTWARD
Left"ward, adv.

Defn: Toward or on the left side.
Rightward and leftward rise the rocks. Southey.

LEFUL
Le"ful, a.

Defn: See Leveful. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEG
Leg, n. Etym: [Icel. leggr; akin to Dan. læg calf of the leg, Sw.
lägg.]

1. A limb or member of an animal used for supporting the body, and in
running, climbing, and swimming; esp., that part of the limb between
the knee and foot.

2. That which resembles a leg in form or use; especially, any long
and slender support on which any object rests; as, the leg of a
table; the leg of pair of compasses or dividers.

3. The part of any article of clothing which covers the leg; as, the
leg of a stocking or of a pair of trousers.

4. A bow, esp. in the phrase to make a leg; probably from drawing the
leg backward in bowing. [Obs.]
He that will give a cap and make a leg in thanks for a favor he never
received. Fuller.

5. A disreputable sporting character; a blackleg. [Slang, Eng.]

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The course and distance made by a vessel on one tack or between
tacks.

7. (Steam Boiler)

Defn: An extension of the boiler downward, in the form of a narrow
space between vertical plates, sometimes nearly surrounding the
furnace and ash pit, and serving to support the boiler; -- called
also water leg.

8. (Grain Elevator)

Defn: The case containing the lower part of the belt which carries
the buckets.

9. (Cricket)

Defn: A fielder whose position is on the outside, a little in rear of
the batter. A good leg (Naut.), a course sailed on a tack which is
near the desired course.
 -- Leg bail, escape from custody by flight. [Slang] -- Legs of an
hyperbola (or other curve) (Geom.), the branches of the curve which
extend outward indefinitely.
 -- Legs of a triangle, the sides of a triangle; -- a name seldom
used unless one of the sides is first distinguished by some
appropriate term; as, the hypothenuse and two legs of a right-angled
triangle. On one's legs, standing to speak.
 -- One's last legs. See under Last.
 -- To have legs (Naut.), to have speed.
 -- To stand on one's own legs, to support one's self; to be
independent.

LEG
Leg, v. t.

Defn: To use as a leg, with it as object: (a) To bow. [Obs.] (b) To
run [Low]

LEGACY
Leg"a*cy, n.; pl.Legacies. Etym: [L. (assumed) legatia, for legatum,
from legare to appoint by last will, to bequeath as a legacy, to
depute: cf. OF. legat legacy. See Legate.]

1. A gift of property by will, esp. of money or personal property; a
bequest. Also Fig.; as, a legacy of dishonor or disease.

2. A business with which one is intrusted by another; a commission; -
- obsolete, except in the phrases last legacy, dying legacy, and the
like.
My legacy and message wherefore I am sent into the world. Tyndale.
He came and told his legacy. Chapman.
Legacy duty, a tax paid to government on legacies. Wharton.
 -- Legacy hunter, one who flatters and courts any one for the sake
of a legacy.

LEGAL
Le"gal, a. Etym: [L. legalis, fr. lex, legis, law; prob. orig., that
which lies or is fixed (cf. L. lectus bed), and if so akin to E. lie,
law: cf. F. légal. Cf. Lie to be prostrate, Loyal, Leal.]

1. Created by, permitted by, in conformity with, or relating to, law;
as, a legal obligation; a legal standard or test; a legal procedure;
a legal claim; a legal trade; anything is legal which the laws do not
forbid.

2. (Theol.)
(a) According to the law of works, as distinguished from free grace;
or resting on works for salvation.
(b) According to the old or Mosaic dispensation; in accordance with
the law of Moses

3. (Law)

Defn: Governed by the rules of law as distinguished from the rules of
equity; as, legal estate; legal assets. Bouvier. Burrill. Legal cap.
See under Cap.
 -- Legal tender. (a) The act of tendering in the performance of a
contract or satisfaction of a claim that which the law prescribes or
permits, and at such time and place as the law prescribes or permits.
(b) That currency, or money, which the law authorizes a debtor to
tender and requires a creditor to receive. It differs in different
countries.

Syn.
 -- Lawful; constitutional; legitimate; licit; authorized. See
Lawful.

LEGALISM
Le"gal*ism, n.

Defn: Strictness, or the doctrine of strictness, in conforming to
law.

LEGALIST
Le"gal*ist, n.

Defn: One who practices or advocates strict conformity to law; in
theology, one who holds to the law of works. See Legal, 2 (a).

LEGALITY
Le*gal"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. legalitas, F. légalité. Cf. Loyalty.]

1. The state or quality of being letter of the law.

LEGALIZATION
Le`gal*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of making legal.

LEGALIZE
Le"gal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Legalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Legalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. légaliser.]

1. To make legal.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: To interpret or apply in a legal spirit.

LEGALLY
Le"gal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a legal manner.

LEGANTINE
Le*gan"tine, a. [Obs.]

Defn: See Legatine.

LEGATARY
Leg"a*ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. legatarius, fr. legaturius enjoined by a
last will: cf. F. légataire. See Legacy.]

Defn: A legatee. [R.] Ayliffe.

LEGATE
Leg"ate, n. Etym: [OE. legal, L. legatus, fr. legare to sent with a
commission or charge, to depute, fr. lex, legis, law: cf. F. légat,
It. legato. See Legal.]

1. An ambassador or envoy.

2. An ecclesiastic representing the pope and invested with the
authority of the Holy See.

Note: Legates are of three kinds: (a) Legates a latere, now always
cardinals. They are called ordinary or extraordinary legates, the
former governing provinces, and the latter class being sent to
foreign countries on extraordinary occasions. (b) Legati missi, who
correspond to the ambassadors of temporal governments. (c) Legati
nati, or legates by virtue of their office, as the archbishops of
Salzburg and Prague.

3. (Rom. Hist.)
(a) An official assistant given to a general or to the governor of a
province.
(b) Under the emperors, a governor sent to a province.

LEGATEE
Leg`a*tee", n. Etym: [See Legacy.] (Law)

Defn: One to whom a legacy is bequeathed.

LEGATESHIP
Leg"ate*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a legate.

LEGATINE
Leg"a*tine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a legate; as, legatine power. Holinshed.

2. Made by, proceeding from, or under the sanction of, a legate; as,
a legatine constitution. Ayliffe.

LEGATION
Le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. legatio: cf. F. légation, It. legazione. See
Legate.]

1. The sending forth or commissioning one person to act for another.
"The Divine legation of Moses." Bp. Warburton.

2. A legate, or envoy, and the persons associated with him in his
mission; an embassy; or, in stricter usage, a diplomatic minister and
his suite; a deputation.

3. The place of business or official residence of a diplomatic
minister at a foreign court or seat of government.

4. A district under the jurisdiction of a legate.

LEGATO
Le*ga"to, a. Etym: [It., tied, joined, fr. legare to tie, bind, L.
ligare.] (Mus.)

Defn: Connected; tied; -- a term used when successive tones are to be
produced in a closely connected, smoothly gliding manner. It is often
indicated by a tie, thus staccato.

LEGATOR
Leg`a*tor", n. Etym: [L., fr. legare: cf. OF. legateur. See Legacy.]
(Law)

Defn: A testator; one who bequeaths a legacy. Dryden.

LEGATURA
Le`ga*tu"ra, n. Etym: [It. See Ligature.] (Mus.)

Defn: A tie or brace; a syncopation.

LEGATURE
Leg"a*ture, n.

Defn: Legateship. [Obs.]

LEG BRIDGE
Leg bridge.

Defn: A type of bridge for small spans in which the floor girders are
rigidly secured at their extremities to supporting steel legs, driven
into the round as piling, or resting on mudsills.

LEGE
Lege, v. t. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. allege to assert.]

Defn: To allege; to assert. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher.

LEGEMENT
Lege"ment, n.

Defn: See Ledgment.

LEGEND
Leg"end, n. Etym: [OE. legende, OF. legende, F. légende, LL. legenda,
fr. L. legendus to be read, fr. legere to read, gather; akin to Gr.
Collect, Dialogue, Lesson, Logic.]

1. That which is appointed to be read; especially, a chronicle or
register of the lives of saints, formerly read at matins, and in the
refectories of religious houses.

2. A story respecting saints; especially, one of a marvelous nature.
Addison.

3. Any wonderful story coming down from the past, but not verifiable
by historical record; a myth; a fable.
And in this legend all that glorious deed. Read, whilst you arm you.
Fairfax.

4. An inscription, motto, or title, esp. one surrounding the field in
a medal or coin, or placed upon an heraldic shield or beneath an
engraving or illustration. Golden legend. See under Golden.

LEGEND
Leg"end, v. t.

Defn: To tell or narrate, as a legend. Bp. Hall.

LEGENDARY
Leg"end*a*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a legend or to legends; consisting of
legends; like a legend; fabulous. "Legendary writers." Bp. Lloyd.
Legendary stories of nurses and old women. Bourne.

LEGENDARY
Leg"end*a*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. legendaire, LL. legendarius.]

1. A book of legends; a tale or parrative.
Read the Countess of Pembroke's "Arcadia," a gallant legendary full
of pleasurable accidents. James I.

2. One who relates legends. Bp. Lavington.

LEGER
Leg"er, n. Etym: [See Ledger.]

1. Anything that lies in a place; that which, or one who, remains in
a place. [Obs.]

2. A minister or ambassador resident at a court or seat of
government. [Written also lieger, leiger.] [Obs.]
Sir Edward Carne, the queen's leger at Rome. Fuller.

3. A ledger.

LEGER
Leg"er, a.

Defn: Lying or remaining in a place; hence, resident; as, leger
ambassador.

LEGER
Leg"er, a. Etym: [F. léger, fr. LL. (assumed) leviarius, fr. L. levis
light in weight. See Levity.]

Defn: Light; slender; slim; trivial. [Obs. except in special
phrases.] Bacon. Leger line (Mus.), a line added above or below the
staff to extend its compass; -- called also added line.

LEGERDEMAIN
Leg`er*de*main", n. Etym: [F. léger light, nimble + de of + main
hand, L. manus. See 3d Leger, and Manual.]

Defn: Sleight of hand; a trick of sleight of hand; hence, any artful
deception or trick.
He of legierdemayne the mysteries did know. Spenser.
The tricks and legerdemain by which men impose upon their own souls.
South.

LEGERDEMAINIST
Leg`er*de*main"ist, n.

Defn: One who practices sleight of hand; a prestidigitator.

LEGERITY
Le*ger"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. légèreté. See 3d Leger.]

Defn: Lightness; nimbleness [Archaic] Shak.

LEGGE
Legge, v. t. Etym: [See Lay, v. t. ]

Defn: To lay. [Obs.]

LEGGE
Legge, v. t. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. alegge.]

Defn: To lighten; to allay. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

LEGGED
Legged, a. Etym: [From Leg.]

Defn: Having (such or so many) legs; -- used in composition; as, a
long-legged man; a two-legged animal.

LEGGIADRO; LEGGIERO
Leg`gi*a"dro, Leg`gi*e"ro, a. & adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Light or graceful; in a light, delicate, and brick style.

LEGGING; LEGGIN
Leg"ging, Leg"gin, n. Etym: [From Leg.]

Defn: A cover for the leg, like a long gaiter.

LEGGING
Leg"ging, a. & vb. n.

Defn: , from Leg, v. t.

LEGGY
Leg"gy (-gy), a.

Defn: Having long legs. Thackeray.

LEGHORN
Leg"horn, n.

Defn: A straw plaiting used for bonnets and hats, made from the straw
of a particular kind of wheat, grown for the purpose in Tuscany,
Italy; -- so called from Leghorn, the place of exportation.

LEGIBILITY
Leg`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being legible; legibleness. Sir. D. Brewster.

LEGIBLE
Leg"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. legibilis, fr. legere to read: cf. OF.
legible. See Legend.]

1. Capable of being read or deciphered; distinct to the eye; plain; -
- used of writing or printing; as, a fair, legible manuscript.
The stone with moss and lichens so overspread, Nothing is legible but
the name alone. Longfellow.

2. Capable of being discovered or understood by apparent marks or
indications; as, the thoughts of men are often legible in their
countenances.

LEGIBLENESS
Leg"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being legible.

LEGIBLY
Leg"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In a legible manner.

LEGIFIC
Le*gif"ic, a. Etym: [L. lex, legis, law + -ficare (in comp.) to make.
See -fy.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to making laws.
Practically, in many cases, authority or legific competence has begun
in bare power. J. Grote.

LEGION
Le"gion, n. Etym: [OE. legioun, OF. legion, F. légion, fr. L. legio,
fr. legere to gather, collect. See Legend.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A body of foot soldiers and cavalry consisting of different
numbers at different periods, -- from about four thousand to about
six thousand men, -- the cavalry being about one tenth.

2. A military force; an army; military bands.

3. A great number; a multitude.
Where one sin has entered,legions will force their way through the
same breach. Rogers.

4. (Taxonomy)

Defn: A group of orders inferior to a class. Legion of honor, an
order instituted by the French government in 1802, when Bonaparte was
First Consul, as a reward for merit, both civil and military.

LEGIONARY
Le"gion*a*ry, a. Etym: [L.legionarius: cf. F. légionnaire.]

Defn: Belonging to a legion; consisting of a legion or legions, or of
an indefinitely great number; as, legionary soldiers; a legionary
force. "The legionary body of error." Sir T. Browne.

LEGIONARY
Le"gion*a*ry, n.; pl. Legionaries (.

Defn: A member of a legion. Milton.

LEGIONED
Le"gioned, a.

Defn: Formed into a legion or legions; legionary. Shelley.

LEGIONRY
Le"gion*ry, n.

Defn: A body of legions; legions, collectively. [R.] Pollok.

LEGISLATE
Leg"is*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Legislated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Legislating.] Etym: [See Legislator.]

Defn: To make or enact a law or laws.
Solon, in legislating for the Athenians, had an idea of a more
perfect constitution than he gave them. Bp. Watson (1805).

LEGISLATION
Leg`is*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. législation, L. legis latio. See
Legislator.]

Defn: The act of legislating; preparation and enactment of laws; the
laws enacted.
Pythagoras joined legislation to his philosophy. Lyttelton.

LEGISLATIVE
Leg"is*la*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. législatij.]

1. Making, or having the power to make, a law or laws; lawmaking; --
distinguished from executive; as, a legislative act; a legislative
body.
The supreme legislative power of England was lodged in the king and
great council, or what was afterwards called the Parliament. Hume.

2. Of or pertaining to the making of laws; suitable to legislation;
as, the transaction of legislative business; the legislative style.

LEGISLATIVELY
Leg"is*la*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a legislative manner.

LEGISLATOR
Leg"is*la`tor, n. Etym: [L. legis lator, prop., a proposer of a law;
lex, legis, law + lator a proposer, bearer, fr. latus, used as p. p.
of ferre to bear: cf. F. législateur. See Legal, and Tolerate.]

Defn: A lawgiver; one who makes laws for a state or community; a
member of a legislative body.
The legislators in ancient and heroical times. Bacon.
Many of the legislators themselves had taken an oath of abjuration of
his Majesty's person and family. E. Phillips.

LEGISLATORIAL
Leg`is*la*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a legislator or legislature.

LEGISLATORSHIP
Leg"is*la`tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a legislator. Halifax.

LEGISLATRESS; LEGISLATRIX
Leg"is*la`tress, Leg"is*la`trix, n.

Defn: A woman who makes laws. Shaftesbury.

LEGISLATURE
Leg"is*la`ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. législature.]

Defn: The body of persons in a state or kingdom invested with power
to make and repeal laws; a legislative body.
Without the concurrent consent of all three parts of the legislature,
no law is, or can be, made. Sir M. Hale.

Note: The legislature of Great Britain consists of the Lords and
Commons, with the king or queen, whose sanction is necessary to every
bill before it becomes a law. The legislatures of most of the United
States consist of two houses or branches; but the sanction or consent
of the governor is required to give their acts the force of law, or a
concurrence of two thirds of the two houses after he has refused his
sanction and assigned his objections.

LEGIST
Le"gist, n. Etym: [F. légiste, LL. legista, fr. L. lex, legis, law.
See Legal.]

Defn: One skilled in the laws; a writer on law. Milman. J. Morley.

LEGITIM
Le*git"im, n. Etym: [See Legitimate, a.] (Scots Law)

Defn: The portion of movable estate to which the children are
entitled upon the death of the father.

LEGITIMACY
Le*git"i*ma*cy, n. Etym: [See Legitimate, a.]

Defn: The state, or quality, of being legitimate, or in conformity
with law; hence, the condition of having been lawfully begotten, or
born in wedlock.
The doctrine of Divine Right, which has now come back to us, like a
thief from transportation, under the alias of Legitimacy. Macaulay.

LEGITIMATE
Le*git"i*mate, a. Etym: [LL. legitimatus, p. p. of legitimare to
legitimate, fr. L. legitimus legitimate. See Legal.]

1. Accordant with law or with established legal forms and
requirements; lawful; as, legitimate government; legitimate rights;
the legitimate succession to the throne; a legitimate proceeding of
an officer; a legitimate heir.

2. Lawfully begotten; born in wedlock.

3. Authorized; real; genuine; not false, counterfeit, or spurious;
as, legitimate poems of Chaucer; legitimate inscriptions.

4. Conforming to known principles, or accepted rules; as, legitimate
reasoning; a legitimate standard, or method; a legitimate combination
of colors.
Tillotson still keeps his place as a legitimate English classic.
Macaulay.

5. Following by logical sequence; reasonable; as, a legitimate
result; a legitimate inference.

LEGITIMATE
Le*git"i*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Legitimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Legitimating.]

Defn: To make legitimate, lawful, or valid; esp., to put in the
position or state of a legitimate person before the law, by legal
means; as, to legitimate a bastard child.
To enact a statute of that which he dares not seem to approve, even
to legitimate vice. Milton.

LEGITIMATELY
Le*git"i*mate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a legitimate manner; lawfully; genuinely.

LEGITIMATENESS
Le*git"i*mate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being legitimate; lawfulness;
genuineness.

LEGITIMATION
Le*git`i*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. légitimation.]

1. The act of making legitimate.
The coining or legitimation of money. East.

2. Lawful birth. [R.] Shak.

LEGITIMATIST
Le*git"i*ma*tist, n.

Defn: See Legitimist.

LEGITIMATIZE
Le*git"i*ma*tize, v. t.

Defn: To legitimate.

LEGITIMISM
Le*git"i*mism, n.

Defn: The principles or plans of legitimists.

LEGITIMIST
Le*git"i*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. légitimiste.]

1. One who supports legitimate authority; esp., one who believes in
hereditary monarchy, as a divine right.

2. Specifically, a supporter of the claims of the elder branch of the
Bourbon dynasty to the crown of France.

LEGITIMIZE
Le*git"i*mize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Legitimized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Legitimizing.]

Defn: To legitimate.

LEGLESS
Leg"less, a.

Defn: Not having a leg.

LEG-OF-MUTTON
Leg"-of-mut"ton, a.

Defn: Having the general shape or outline of a leg of mutton; as, a
leg-of-mutton, or shoulder-of-mutton, sail.

LEGO-LITERARY
Le"go-lit"er*a*ry, a. Etym: [See Legal, and Literary.]

Defn: Pertaining to the literature of law.

LEGULEIAN
Le`gu*le"ian, a. Etym: [L. leguleius pettifogger, fr. lex, legis,
law.]

Defn: Lawyerlike; legal. [R.] "Leguleian barbarism." De Quincey.
 -- n.

Defn: A lawyer.

LEGUME
Leg"ume, n. Etym: [F. légume, L. legumen, fr. legere to gather. So
called because they may be gathered without cutting. See Legend.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A pod dehiscent into two pieces or valves, and having the seed
attached at one suture, as that of the pea.

Note: In the latter circumstance, it differs from a siliqua, in which
the seeds are attached to both sutures. In popular use, a legume is
called a pod, or cod; as, pea pod, or peas cod.

2. pl.

Defn: The fruit of leguminous plants, as peas, beans, lupines; pulse.

LEGUMEN
Le*gu"men, n.; pl. L. Legumina, E. Legumens. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Same as Legume.

LEGUMIN
Le*gu"min, n. Etym: [Cf. F. légumine.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: An albuminous substance resembling casein, found as a
characteristic ingredient of the seeds of leguminous and grain-
bearing plants.

LEGUMINOUS
Le*gu"mi*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. légumineux.]

1. Pertaining to pulse; consisting of pulse.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a very large natural order of
plants (Leguminosæ), which bear legumes, including peas, beans,
clover, locust trees, acacias, and mimosas.

LEIGER
Lei"ger, n. Etym: [See Leger, and Ledger.]

Defn: See Leger, n., 2. [Obs.] Shak.

LEIOTRICHAN
Lei*ot"ri*chan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Leiotrichi.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Leiotrichi.

LEIOTRICHI
Lei*ot"ri*chi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anthropol.)

Defn: The division of mankind which embraces the smooth-haired races.

LEIOTRICHOUS
Lei*ot"ri*chous, a. Etym: [See Leiotrichi.] (Anthropol.)

Defn: Having smooth, or nearly smooth, hair.

LEIPOA
Lei*po"a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Australian gallinaceous birds including but a single
species (Leipoa ocellata), about the size of a turkey. Its color is
variegated, drown, black, white, and gray. Called also native
pheasant.

Note: It makes large mounds of sand and vegetable material, in which
its eggs are laid to be hatched by the heat of the decomposing mass.

LEIPOTHYMIC
Lei`po*thym"ic, a.

Defn: See Lipothymic.

LEISTER; LISTER
Leis"ter, Lis"ter, n.

Defn: A spear armed with three or more prongs, for striking fish.
[Scotland]

LEISURABLE
Lei"sur*a*ble, a. Etym: [See Leisure.]

1. Leisurely. [Obs.] Hooker.

2. Vacant of employment; not occupied; idle; leisure; as leisurable
hours. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

LEISURABLY
Lei"sur*a*bly, adv.

Defn: At leisure. [Obs.]

LEISURE
Lei"sure n. Etym: [OE. leisere, leiser, OF.leisir, F. loisir, orig.,
permission, fr. L. licere to be permitted. See License.]

1. Freedom from occupation or business; vacant time; time free from
employment.
The desire of leisure is much more natural than of business and care.
Sir W. Temple.

2. Time at one's command, free from engagement; convenient
opportunity; hence, convenience; ease.
He sighed, and had no leisure more to say. Dryden.
At leisure. (a) Free from occupation; not busy. (b) In a leisurely
manner; at a convenient time.

LEISURE
Lei"sure, a.

Defn: Unemployed; as, leisure hours.

LEISURED
Lei"sured, a.

Defn: Having leisure. "The leisured classes." Gladstone.

LEISURELY
Lei"sure*ly, a.

Defn: Characterized by leisure; taking abundant tome; not hurried;
as, a leisurely manner; a leisurely walk.

LEISURELY
Lei"sure*ly, adv.

Defn: In a leisurely manner. Addison.

LEITMOTIF
Leit"mo*tif", n. Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: See Leading motive, under Leading, a.

LEMAN
Le"man, n. Etym: [OE. lemman, legman; AS.leóf dear + mann man. See
Lief, and Man.]

Defn: A sweetheart, of either sex; a gallant, or a mistress; --
usually in a bad sense. [Archaic] Chaucer. Spenser. Shak.

LEME
Leme, n. Etym: [OE. leem, leme, leam, AS. leóma light, brightness;
akin to E. light, n. sq. root122.]

Defn: A ray or glimmer of light; a gleam. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEME
Leme, v. i.

Defn: To shine. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

LEMMA
Lem"ma, n.; pl. L. Lemmata, E. Lemmas. Etym: [L. lemma, Gr.
Syllable.]

Defn: A preliminary or auxiliary proposition demonstrated or accepted
for immediate use in the demonstration of some other proposition, as
in mathematics or logic.

LEMMAN
Lem"man, n.

Defn: A leman. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEMMING
Lem"ming, n. Etym: [Nor. lemming, lemende; cf. Sw. lemel, Lapp.
lummik.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small arctic rodents of the
genera Myodes and Cuniculus, resembling the meadow mice in form. They
are found in both hemispheres.

Note: The common Northern European lemming (Myodes lemmus) is
remarkable for making occasional devastating migrations in enormous
numbers from the mountains into the lowlands.

LEMNIAN
Lem"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Lemnius, fr. Lemnus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the isle of Lemnos. Lemnian bole, Lemnian
earth, an aluminous earth of a grayish yellow color; sphragide; --
formerly sold as medicine, having astringent properties.
 -- Lemnian reddle, a reddle of firm consistence and deep red color;
-- used by artificers in coloring.

LEMNISCATA; LEMNISCATE
Lem`nis*ca"ta, Lem*nis"cate, n. Etym: [L. lemniscatus adorned with
ribbons, fr. lemniscus a ribbon having down, Gr. (Geom.)

Defn: A curve in the form of the figure 8, with both parts
symmetrical, generated by the point in which a tangent to an
equilateral hyperbola meets the perpendicular on it drawn from the
center.

LEMNISCUS
Lem*nis"cus, n.; pl. Lemnisci () Etym: [L. See Lemniscata.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of two oval bodies hanging from the interior walls of the
body in the Acanthocephala.

LEMON
Lem"on, n. Etym: [F. limon, Per. lim; cf. Ar.laim, Sp. limon, It.
limone. Cf. Lime a fruit.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An oval or roundish fruit resembling the orange, and containing
a pulp usually intensely acid. It is produced by a tropical tree of
the genus Citrus,the common fruit known in commerce being that of the
species C. Limonum or C. Medica (var. Limonum). There are many
varieties of the fruit, some of which are sweet.

2. The tree which bears lemons; the lemon tree. Lemon grass (Bot.), a
fragrant East Indian grass (Andropogon Shoenanthus, and perhaps other
allied species), which yields the grass oil used in perfumery.
 -- Lemon sole (Zoöl.), a yellow European sole (Solea aurantiaca).
 -- Salts of lemon (Chem.), a white crystalline substance,
inappropriately named, as it consists of an acid potassium oxalate
and contains no citric acid, which is the characteristic acid of
lemon; -- called also salis of sorrel. It is used in removing ink
stains. See Oxalic acid, under Oxalic. [Colloq.]

LEMONADE
Lem`on*ade", n. Etym: [F. limonade; cf. Sp. limonada, It. limonata.
See Lemon.]

Defn: A beverage consisting of lemon juice mixed with water and
sweetened.

LEMUR
Le"mur, n. Etym: [L., a ghost, specter. So called on account of its
habit of going abroad by night.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a family (Lemuridæ) of nocturnal mammals allied to the
monkeys, but of small size, and having a sharp and foxlike muzzle,
and large eyes. They feed upon birds, insects, and fruit, and are
mostly natives of Madagascar and the neighboring islands, one genus
(Galago) occurring in Africa. The slow lemur or kukang of the East
Indies is Nycticebus tardigradus. See Galago, Indris, and Colugo.

LEMURES
Lem"u*res, n. pl. Etym: [L. See Lemur.]

Defn: Spirits or ghosts of the departed; specters.
The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint. Milton.

LEMURIA
Le*mu"ri*a, n. Etym: [So named from the supposition that it was the
original home of the lemurs.]

Defn: A hypothetical land, or continent, supposed by some to have
existed formerly in the Indian Ocean, of which Madagascar is a
remnant. Herschel.

LEMURID
Lem"u*rid, a. & n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Lemuroid.

LEMURIDOUS; LEMURINE
Le*mu"ri*dous, Lem"u*rine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Lemuroid.

LEMUROID
Lem"u*roid, a. Etym: [Lemur + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the lemurs or the Lemuroidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Lemuroidea.

LEMUROIDEA
Lem`u*roi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Lemur, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of primates, including the lemurs, the aye-aye, and
allied species. [Written also Lemuroida.]

LENA
Le"na, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A procuress. J. Webster.

LENARD RAYS
Le*nard" rays. (Physics.)

Defn: Rays emanating from the outer surface of a plate composed of
any material permeable by cathode rays, as aluminium, which forms a
portion of a wall of a vacuum tube, or which is mounted within the
tube and exposed to radiation from the cathode. Lenard rays are
similar in all their known properties to cathode rays. So called from
the German physicist Philipp Lenard (b. 1862), who first described
them.

LENARD TUBE
Lenard tube. (Elec.)

Defn: A tube for producing Lenard rays.

LEND
Lend, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lent ; p. pr. & vb. n. Lending.] Etym:
[OE.lenen, AS. l, fr. l loan; akin to G. lehnen to lend. See Loan.]

1. To allow the custody and use of, on condition of the return of the
same; to grant the temporary use of; as, to lend a book; -- opposed
to borrow.
Give me that ring. I'll lend it thee, my dear, but have no power To
give it from me. Shak.

2. To allow the possession and use of, on condition of the return of
an equivalent in kind; as, to lend money or some article of food.
Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury, nor lend him thy
victuals for increase. Levit. xxv. 37.

3. To afford; to grant or furnish in general; as, to lend assistance;
to lend one's name or influence.
Cato, lend me for a while thy patience. Addison.
Mountain lines and distant horizons lend space and largeness to his
compositions. J. A. Symonds.

4. To let for hire or compensation; as, to lend a horse or gig.

Note: This use of the word is rare in the United States, except with
reference to money. To lend a hand, to give assistance; to help.
[Colloq.] -- To lend an ear or one's ears, to give attention.

LENDABLE
Lend"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be lent. Sherwood.

LENDER
Lend"er, n.

Defn: One who lends.
The borrower is servant to the lender. Prov. xxii. 7.

LENDES
Lend"es, n. pl.

Defn: See Lends. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LENDING
Lend"ing, n.

1. The act of one who lends.

2. That which is lent or furnished.

LENDS
Lends, n. pl. Etym: [AS. lend, lenden; akin to D. & G. lende, OHG.
lenti, Icel. lend, and perh to E. loin.]

Defn: Loins. [Obs.] Wyclif.

LENE
Lene, v. i. Etym: [See Lend.]

Defn: To lend; to grant; to permit. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LENE
Le"ne, a. Etym: [L. lenis smooth.] (Phonetics)
(a) Smooth; as, the lene breathing.
(b) Applied to certain mute consonants, as p, k, and t. (or Gr. p, k,
t.). W. E. Jelf.

LENE
Le"ne, n. (Phonetics)
(a) The smooth breathing (spiritus lenis).
(b) Any one of the lene consonants, as p, k, or i (or Gr. p, k, t.).
W. E. Jelf.

LENGER; LENGEST
Leng"er, Leng"est, a.

Defn: Longer; longest; -- obsolete compar. and superl. of long.
Chaucer.

LENGTH
Length, n. Etym: [OE. lengthe, AS. leng, fr. land, long, long; akin
to D. lengte, Dan. længde, Sw. längd, Icel. lengd. See Long, a. ]

1. The longest, or longer, dimension of any object, in distinction
from breadth or width; extent of anything from end to end; the
longest line which can be drawn through a body, parallel to its
sides; as, the length of a church, or of a ship; the length of a rope
or line.

2. A portion of space or of time considered as measured by its
length; -- often in the plural.
Large lengths of seas and shores. Shak.
The future but a length behind the past. Dryden.

3. The quality or state of being long, in space or time; extent;
duration; as, some sea birds are remarkable for the length of their
wings; he was tired by the length of the sermon, and the length of
his walk.

4. A single piece or subdivision of a series, or of a number of long
pieces which may be connected together; as, a length of pipe; a
length of fence.

5. Detail or amplification; unfolding; continuance as, to pursue a
subject to a great length.
May Heaven, great monarch, still augment your bliss. With length of
days and every day like this. Dryden.

6. Distance.[Obs.]
He had marched to the length of Exeter. Clarendon.
At length. (a) At or in the full extent; without abbreviation; as,
let the name be inserted at length. (b) At the end or conclusion;
after a long period. See Syn. of At last, under Last.
 -- At arm's length. See under Arm.

LENGTH
Length, v. i.

Defn: To lengthen. [Obs.] Shak.

LENGTHEN
Length"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lengthenel; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lengthening.]

Defn: To extent in length; to make longer in extent or duration; as,
to lengthen a line or a road; to lengthen life; -- sometimes followed
by out.
What if I please to lengthen out his date. Dryden.

LENGTHEN
Length"en, v. i.

Defn: To become longer. Locke.

LENGTHFUL
Length"ful, a.

Defn: Long. [Obs.] Pope.

LENGTHILY
Length"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lengthy manner; at great length or extent.

LENGTHINESS
Length"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being lengthy; prolixity.

LENGTHWAYS; LENGTHWISE
Length"ways`, Length"wise`, adv.

Defn: In the direction of the length; in a longitudinal direction.

LENGTHY
Length"y, a. [Compar. Lengthier; superl. Lengthiest.]

Defn: Having length; rather long or too long; prolix; not brief; --
said chiefly of discourses, writings, and the like. "Lengthy
periods." Washington. "Some lengthy additions." Byron. "These would
be details too lengthy." Jefferson. "To cut short lengthy
explanations." Trench.

LENIENCE; LENIENCY
Le"ni*ence, Le"ni*en*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being lenient; lenity; clemency.

LENIENT
Le"ni*ent, a. Etym: [L. leniens, -entis, p. pr. of lenire to soften,
fr. lenis soft, mild. Cf. Lithe.]

1. Relaxing; emollient; softening; assuasive; -- some "Lenient of
grief." Milton.
Of relax the fibers, are lenient, balsamic. Arbuthnot.
Time, that on all things lays his lenient hand. Pope.

2. Mild; clement; merciful; not rigorous or severe; as, a lenient
disposition; a lenient judge or sentence.

LENIENT
Le"ni*ent, n. (Med.)

Defn: A lenitive; an emollient.

LENIENTLY
Le"ni*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lenient manner.

LENIFY
Len"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. lenis soft, mild + -fy: cf. F.lénifier.]

Defn: To assuage; to soften; to Bacon. Dryden.

LENIMENT
Len"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. lenimentum: cf. OF. leniment. See Lenient.]

Defn: An assuasive. [Obs.]

LENITIVE
Len"i*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lénitif. See Lenient.]

Defn: Having the quality of softening or mitigating, as pain or
acrimony; assuasive; emollient.

LENITIVE
Len"i*tive, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lénitif.]

1. (Med.)
(a) A medicine or application that has the quality of easing pain or
protecting from the action of irritants.
(b) A mild purgative; a laxative.

2. That which softens or mitigates; that which tends to allay
passion, excitement, or pain; a palliative.
There is one sweet Lenitive at least for evils, which Nature holds
out; so I took it kindly at her hands, and fell asleep. Sterne.

LENITIVENESS
Len"i*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being lenitive.

LENITUDE
Len"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. lenitudo.]

Defn: The quality or habit of being lenient; lenity. [Obs.] Blount.

LENITY
Len"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. lenitas, fr. lenis soft, mild: cf. OF. lenité.
See Lenient.]

Defn: The state or quality of being lenient; mildness of temper or
disposition; gentleness of treatment; softness; tenderness; clemency;
-- opposed to severity and rigor.
His exceeding lenity disposes us to be somewhat too severe. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Gentleness; kindness; tenderness; softness; humanity; clemency;
mercy.

LENNI-LENAPE
Len`ni-Len*a"pe, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A general name for a group of Algonquin tribes which formerly
occupied the coast region of North America from Connecticut to
Virginia. They included the Mohicans, Delawares, Shawnees, and
several other tribes.

LENO
Le"no, n. Etym: [Cf. It. leno weak, flexible.]

Defn: A light open cotton fabric used for window curtains.

LENOCINANT
Le*noc"i*nant, a. Etym: [L. lenocinans, p. pr. of lenocinari to
pander, cajole; akin to leno pimp.]

Defn: Given to lewdness. [Obs.]

LENS
Lens, n.; pl. Lenses (-êz). Etym: [L. lens a lentil. So named from
the resemblance in shape of a double convex lens to the seed of a
lentil. Cf. Lentil.] (Opt.)

Defn: A piece of glass, or other transparent substance, ground with
two opposite regular surfaces, either both curved, or one curved and
the other plane, and commonly used, either singly or combined, in
optical instruments, for changing the direction of rays of light, and
thus magnifying objects, or otherwise modifying vision. In practice,
the curved surfaces are usually spherical, though rarely cylindrical,
or of some other figure. Lenses

Note: Of spherical lenses, there are six varieties, as shown in
section in the figures herewith given: viz., a plano-concave; b
double-concave; c plano-convex; d double-convex; converging concavo-
convex, or converging meniscus; f diverging concavo-convex, or
diverging meniscus. Crossed lens (Opt.), a double-convex lens with
one radius equal to six times the other.
 -- Crystalline lens. (Anat.) See Eye.
 -- Fresnel lens (Opt.), a compound lens formed by placing around a
central convex lens rings of glass so curved as to have the same
focus; used, especially in lighthouses, for concentrating light in a
particular direction; -- so called from the inventor.
 -- Multiplying lens or glass (Opt.), a lens one side of which is
plane and the other convex, but made up of a number of plane faces
inclined to one another, each of which presents a separate image of
the object viewed through it, so that the object is, as it were,
multiplied.
 -- Polyzonal lens. See Polyzonal.

LENT
Lent,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Lend.

LENT
Lent, n. Etym: [OE. lente, lenten, leynte, AS. lengten, lencten,
spring, lent, akin to D. lente, OHG. lenzin, langiz, G. lenz, and
perh. fr. AS. lang long, E. long, because at this season of the year
the days lengthen.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A fast of forty days, beginning with Ash Wednesday and
continuing till Easter, observed by some Christian churches as
commemorative of the fast of our Savior.

LENT
Lent, a. Etym: [L. lentus; akin to lenis soft, mild: cf. F. lent. See
Lenient.]

1. Slow; mild; gentle; as, lenter heats. [Obs.] B.Jonson.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: See Lento.

LENTAMENTE
Len`ta*men"te; adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slowly; in slow time.

LENTANDO
Len*tan"do, a. Etym: [It., p. pr. of lentare to make slow. See Lent,
a.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slackening; retarding. Same as Rallentando.

LENTEN
Lent"en, n.

Defn: Lent. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

LENTEN
Lent"en, a. Etym: [From OE. lenten lent. See Lent, n. ]

1. Of or pertaining to the fast called Lent; used in, or suitable to,
Lent; as, the Lenten season.
She quenched her fury at the flood. And with a Lenten salad cooled
her blood. Dryden.

2. Spare, meager; plain; somber; unostentatious; not abundant or
showy. "Lenten entertainment." " Lenten answer." Shak. " Lenten
suit." Beau. & Fl.
Lenten color, black or violet. F. G. Lee.

LENTENTIDE
Lent"en*tide`, n.

Defn: The season of Lenten or Lent.

LENTICEL
Len"ti*cel, n. Etym: [F. lenticelle, dim. fr. L. lens, lentis, a
lentil. Cf. Lentil.] (Bot.)
(a) One of the small, oval, rounded spots upon the stem or branch of
a plant, from which the underlying tissues may protrude or roots may
issue, either in the air, or more commonly when the stem or branch is
covered with water or earth.
(b) A small, lens-shaped gland on the under side of some leaves.

LENTICELLATE
Len`ti*cel"late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing lenticels; dotted with lenticels.

LENTICELLE
Len`ti*celle", n. Etym: [F.] (Bot.)

Defn: Lenticel.

LENTICULA
Len*tic"u*la, n.; pl. E. Lenticulas, L. Lenticulæ. Etym: [L. See
Lenticel.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A kind of eruption upon the skin; lentigo; freckle.

2. (Opt.)

Defn: A lens of small size.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A lenticel.

LENTICULAR
Len*tic"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. lenticularis: cf. F. lenticulaire. See
Lenticel.]

Defn: Resembling a lentil in size or form; having the form of a
double-convex lens.

LENTICULARLY
Len*tic"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a lens; with a curve.

LENTIFORM
Len"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. lens, lentis, lentil + -form: cf. F.
lentifarme,]

Defn: Lenticular.

LENTIGINOSE
Len*tig"i*nose`, a. Etym: [See Lentiginous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing numerous dots resembling freckles.

LENTIGINOUS
Len*tig"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. lentiginosus. See Lentigo.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to lentigo; freckly; scurfy; furfuraceous.

LENTIGO
Len*ti"go, n. Etym: [L., fr. lens, lentis, lentil.] (Med.)

Defn: A freckly eruption on the skin; freckles.

LENTIL
Len"til, n. Etym: [F. lentille, fr. L. lenticula, dim. of lens,
lentis, lentil. Cf. Lens.] (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous plant of the genus Ervum (Ervum Lens), of small
size, common in the fields in Europe. Also, its seed, which is used
for food on the continent.

Note: The lentil of the Scriptures probably included several other
vetchlike plants. Lentil shell (Zoöl.), a small bivalve shell of the
genus Ervillia, family Tellinidæ.

LENTISCUS; LENTISK
Len*tis"cus, Len"tisk,, n. Etym: [L. lentiscus, lentiscum: cf. F.
lentisque.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree; the mastic. See Mastic.

LENTITUDE
Len"ti*tude, n. Etym: [L. lentitudo, fr. lentus slow: cf. OF.
lentitude. See Lent, a.]

Defn: Slowness; sluggishness. [Obs.]

LENT LILY
Lent lily (Bot.),

Defn: the daffodil; -- so named from its blossoming in spring.

LENTO
Len"to, a. & adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slow; in slow time; slowly; -- rarely written lente.

LENTOID
Len"toid, a. Etym: [Lens + -oid.]

Defn: Having the form of a lens; lens-shaped.

LENTOR
Len"tor, n. Etym: [L. fr. lentus pliant, tough, slow. See Lent, a.]

1. Tenacity; viscidity; viscidity, as of fluids.

2. Slowness; delay; sluggishness. Arbuthnot.

LENTOUS
Len"tous, a. Etym: [L. lentus. See Lentor.]

Defn: Viscid; viscous; tenacious.
Spawn of a lentous and transparent body. Sir T. Browne.

L'ENVOI; L'ENVOY
L'en`voi", or; L'en`voy" (, n. Etym: [F. le the + envei a sending.
See Envoy.]

1. One or more detached verses at the end of a literary composition,
serving to convey the moral, or to address the poem to a particular
person; -- orig. employed in old French poetry. Shak.

2. A conclusion; a result. Massinger.

LEO
Le"o, n. Etym: [L. See Lion.] (Astron.)

1. The Lion, the fifth sign of the zodiac, marked thus

2. A northern constellation east of Cancer, containing the bright
star Regulus at the end of the handle of the Sickle. Leo Minor, a
small constellation between Leo and the Great Bear.

LEOD
Le"od, n. Etym: [AS.leód people, nation, man, chief; akin to OS.
liud, OHG. liut, pl. liuti, G.leute, pl., fr. AS.leódan to grow, akin
to Goth. liudan, OS. liodan, OHG. liotan to grow; cf. Skr. ruh. ]

Defn: People; a nation; a man. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Bp. Gibson.

LEON
Le"on, n.

Defn: A lion. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LEONCED
Le"onced, a. (Her.)

Defn: See Lionced.

LEONESE
Le`o*nese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Leon, in Spain.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Leon.

LEONID
Le"o*nid, n. Etym: [From Leo: cf. F. léonides, pl.] (Astron.)

Defn: One of the shooting stars which constitute the star shower that
recurs near the fourteenth of November at intervals of about thirty-
three years; so called because shooting stars appear on the heavens
to move in lines directed from the constellation Leo.

LEONINE
Le"o*nine, a. Etym: [L. leoninus, fr. leo, leonis, lion: cf. F.
léonin. See Lion.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the lion; as, a leonine
look; leonine repacity.
 -- Le"o*nine*ly, adv. Leonine verse, a kind of verse, in which the
end of the line rhymes with the middle; -- so named from Leo, or
Leoninus, a Benedictine and canon of Paris in the twelfth century,
who wrote largely in this measure, though he was not the inventor.
The following line is an example:
Gloria factorum temere conceditur horum.

LEONTODON
Le*on"to*don, n. Etym: [Gr. Lion's-tooth, Dandelion.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of liguliflorous composite plants, including the fall
dandelion (L. autumnale), and formerly the true dandelion; -- called
also lion's tooth.

LEOPARD
Leop"ard, n. Etym: [OE. leopart, leparde, lebarde, libbard, OF.
leopard, liepart, F. léopard, L. leopardus, fr. Gr. Lion, and Pard.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, savage, carnivorous mammal (Felis leopardus). It is of
a yellow or fawn color, with rings or roselike clusters of black
spots along the back and sides. It is found in Southern Asia and
Africa. By some the panther (Felis pardus) is regarded as a variety
of leopard. Hunting leopard. See Cheetah. Leopard cat (Zoöl.) any one
of several species or varieties of small, spotted cats found in
Africa, Southern Asia, and the East Indies; esp., Felis Bengalensis.
 -- Leopard marmot. See Gopher, 2.

LEOPARD'S BANE
Leop"ard's bane`. (Bot.)

Defn: A name of several harmless plants, as Arnica montana, Senecio
Doronicum, and Paris quadrifolia.

LEOPARDWOOD
Leop"ard*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Letterwood.

LEP
Lep, obs. strong imp.

Defn: of Leap. Leaped. Chaucer.

LEPADITE
Lep"a*dite, n. Etym: [L. lepas, lepadis, limpet, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Lepadoid.

LEPADOID
Lep"a*doid, n. Etym: [Lepas + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A stalked barnacle of the genus Lepas, or family Lepadidæ; a
goose barnacle. Also used adjectively.

LEPAL
Lep"al, n. Etym: [Gr. lépale.] (Bot.)

Defn: A sterile transformed stamen.

LEPAS
Le"pas, n. Etym: [L., a limpet, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of various species of Lepas, a genus of pedunculated
barnacles found attached to floating timber, bottoms of ships, Gulf
weed, etc.; -- called also goose barnacle. See Barnacle.

LEPER
Lep"er, n. Etym: [OE. lepre leprosy, F. lèpre, L. leprae, lepra, fr.
Gr.

Defn: A person affected with leprosy.

LEPERED
Lep"ered, a.

Defn: Affected or tainted with leprosy.

LEPERIZE
Lep"er*ize, v. t.

Defn: To affect with leprosy.

LEPEROUS
Lep"er*ous, a.

Defn: Leprous; infectious; corrupting; poisonous. "The leperous
distillment." Shak.