

LIMP
Limp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Limped; p. pr. & vb. n. Limping.] Etym:
[Cf. AS. lemphealt lame, OHG. limphen to limp, be weak; perh. akin to
E. lame, or to limp, a

Defn: To halt; to walk lamely. Also used figuratively. Shak.

LIMP
Limp, n.

Defn: A halt; the act of limping.

LIMP
Limp, n. (Ore Washing)

Defn: A scraper for removing poor ore or refuse from the sieve.

LIMP
Limp, a. Etym: [Cf. Icel. limpa limpness, weakness, and E.lap, n.,
lop, v. t. Cf. Limber, a.]

1. Flaccid; flabby, as flesh. Walton.

2. Lacking stiffness; flimsy; as, a limp cravat.

LIMPER
Limp"er, n.

Defn: One who limps.

LIMPET
Lim"pet, n. Etym: [Prob. through French fr. L. lepas, -adis, Gr.
(Zoöl.)

1. In a general sense, any hatshaped, or conical, gastropod shell.

2. Any one of many species of marine shellfish of the order
Docoglossa, mostly found adhering to rocks, between tides.

Note: The common European limpets of the genus Patella (esp. P.
vulgata) are extensively used as food. The common New England species
is Acmæa testudinalis. Numerous species of limpets occur on the
Pacific coast of America, some of them of large size.

3. Any species of Siphonaria, a genus of limpet-shaped Pulmonifera,
living between tides, on rocks.

4. A keyhole limpet. See Fissurella.

LIMPID
Lim"pid, a. Etym: [L.limpidus; akin to Gr. limpide. Cf. Lamp.]

Defn: Characterized by clearness or transparency; clear; as, a limpid
stream.
Springs which were clear, fresh, and limpid. Woodward.

Syn.
 -- Clear; transparent; pellucid; lucid; pure; crystal; translucent;
bright.

LIMPIDITY
Lim*pid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. limpiditas: cf. F. limpidité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being limpid.

LIMPIDNESS
Lim"pid*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being limpid; limpidity.

LIMPIN
Lim"pin, n.

Defn: A limpet. [Obs.] Holland.

LIMPINGLY
Limp"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a limping manner.

LIMPITUDE
Limp"i*tude, n.

Defn: Limpidity. [Obs.]

LIMPKIN
Limp"kin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Either one of two species of wading birds of the genus Aramus,
intermediate between the cranes and rails. The limpkins are
remarkable for the great length of the toes. One species (A.
giganteus) inhabits Florida and the West Indies; the other (A.
scolopaceus) is found in South America. Called also courlan, and
crying bird.

LIMPNESS
Limp"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being limp.

LIMPSY; LIMSY
Limp"sy, Lim"sy, a. Etym: [See Limp, a., and cf. W. llymsi having a
fickle motion, weak. Cf. Flimsy.]

Defn: Limp; flexible; flimsy. [Local, U. S.]

LIMU
Li"mu, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The Hawaiian name for seaweeds. Over sixty kinds are used as
food, and have species names, as Limu Lipoa, Limu palawai, etc.

LIMULE
Lim"ule, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A limulus.

LIMULOIDEA
Lim`u*loi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Limulus, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Merostomata, including among living animals the
genus Limulus, with various allied fossil genera, mostly of the
Carboniferous period. Called also Xiphosura.

Note: There are six pairs of leglike organs, surrounding the mouth,
most of which terminate in claws; those of the first pair (probably
mandibles) are the smallest; the others have the basal joints
thickened and spinose, to serve as jaws, while the terminal joints
serve as legs. This group is intermediate, in some characteristics,
between crustaceans and certain arachnids (scorpions), but the
respiration is by means of lamellate gills borne upon the five
posterior abdominal appendages, which are flat and united in pairs by
their inner edges, and are protected by the lidlike anterior pair,
which also bear the genital orifices.

LIMULUS
Lim"u*lus, n.; pl. Limuli (-li). Etym: [L., dim. of limus sidelong,
askance.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The only existing genus of Merostomata. It includes only a few
species from the East Indies, and one (Limulus polyphemus) from the
Atlantic coast of North America. Called also Molucca crab, king crab,
horseshoe crab, and horsefoot.

LIMY
Lim"y, a. Etym: [See 4th Lime.]

1. Smeared with, or consisting of, lime; viscous. "Limy snares.'
Spenser.

2. Containing lime; as, a limy soil.

3. Resembling lime; having the qualities of lime.

LIN
Lin, v. i. Etym: [AS. linnan. See Lithe.]

Defn: To yield; to stop; to cease. [Obs. or Scot.] Marsion.

LIN
Lin, n. Etym: [Ir. linn, or Gael. linne; akin to W. llyn a pool,
pond, lake, but in senses 2 and 3 prob. from AS.hlynn torrent. Cf.
Dunlin.]

1. A pool or collection of water, particularly one above or below a
fall of water.

2. A waterfall, or cataract; as, a roaring lin.

3. A steep ravine.

Note: Written also linn and lyn.

LINAGE
Lin"age, n.

Defn: See Lineage. [Obs.] Holland.

LINAMENT
Lin"a*ment, n. Etym: [L. linamentum, fr. linum flax.] (Surg.)

Defn: Lint; esp., lint made into a tent for insertion into wounds or
ulcers.

LINARITE
Li*nar`ite, n. Etym: [So called because formerly supposed to occur at
Linares, in Spain.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous sulphate of lead and copper occurring in bright blue
monoclinic crystals.

LINCH
Linch, n. Etym: [AS. hlinc a hill.]

Defn: A ledge; a right-angled projection.

LINCHI
Lin"chi, n. Etym: [Native Chinese name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An esculent swallow.

LINCHPIN
Linch"pin`, n. Etym: [AS. lynis the axletree; akin to D. luns
linchpin, OS. lunisa, LG. lunse, G. lünse, OHG. lun peg, bolt.]

Defn: A pin used to prevent the wheel of a vehicle from sliding off
the axletree.

LINCOLN GREEN
Lin"coln green"

Defn: . A color of cloth formerly made in Lincoln, England; the cloth
itself.

LINCTURE; LINCTUS
Linc"ture, Linc"tus, n. Etym: [L. lingere, linctum, to lick.]

Defn: Medicine taken by licking with the tongue.

LIND
Lind, n.

Defn: The linden. See Linden. Chaucer.

LINDEN
Lin"den, n. Etym: [Orig. an adj. from lind linden tree, AS. lind;
akin to D. & G. linde, OHG. linta, Icel., Sw., & Dan. lind. Cf. Lime
linden.] (Bot.)
(a) A handsome tree (Tilia Europæa), having cymes of light yellow
flowers, and large cordate leaves. The tree is common in Europe.
(b) In America, the basswood, or Tilia Americana.

LINDIA
Lin"di*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar genus of rotifers, remarkable for the absence of
ciliated disks. By some zoölogists it is thought to be like the
ancestral form of the Arthropoda.

LINDIFORM
Lin"di*form, a. Etym: [Lindia + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling the genus Lindia; -- said of certain apodous insect
larvæ. [See Illust. under Larva.]

LINE
Line, n. Etym: [OE. lin. See Linen.]

1. Flax; linen. [Obs.] "Garments made of line." Spenser.

2. The longer and fiber of flax.

LINE
Line, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lined; p. pr. & vb. n. Lining.]

1. To cover the inner surface of; as, to line a cloak with silk or
fur; to line a box with paper or tin.
The inside lined with rich carnation silk. W. Browne.

2. To put something in the inside of; to fill; to supply, as a purse
with money.
The charge amounteth very high for any one man's purse, except lined
beyond ordinary, to reach unto. Carew.
Till coffee has her stomach lined. Swift.

3. To place persons or things along the side of for security or
defense; to strengthen by adding; to fortify; as, to line works with
soldiers.
Line and new repair our towns of war With men of courage and with
means defendant. Shak.

4. To impregnate; -- applied to brute animals. Creech. Lined gold,
gold foil having a lining of another metal.

LINE
Line, n. Etym: [OE. line, AS. line cable, hawser, prob. from L. linea
a linen thread, string, line, fr. linum flax, thread, linen, cable;
but the English word was influenced by F. ligne line, from the same
L. word linea. See Linen.]

1. linen thread or string; a slender, strong cord; also, a cord of
any thickness; a rope; a hawser; as, a fishing line; a line for
snaring birds; a clothesline; a towline.
Who so layeth lines for to latch fowls. Piers Plowman.

2. A more or less threadlike mark of pen, pencil, or graver; any long
mark; as, a chalk line.

3. The course followed by anything in motion; hence, a road or route;
as, the arrow descended in a curved line; the place is remote from
lines of travel.

4. Direction; as, the line sight or vision.

5. A row of letters, words, etc., written or printed; esp., a row of
words extending across a page or column.

6. A short letter; a note; as, a line from a friend.

7. (Poet.)

Defn: A verse, or the words which form a certain number of feet,
according to the measure.
In the preceding line Ulysses speaks of Nausicaa. Broome.

8. Course of conduct, thought, occupation, or policy; method of
argument; department of industry, trade, or intellectual activity.
He is uncommonly powerful in his own line, but it is not the line of
a first-rate man. Coleridge.

9. (Math.)

Defn: That which has length, but not breadth or thickness.

10. The exterior limit of a figure, plat, or territory; boundary;
contour; outline.
Eden stretched her line From Auran eastward to the royal towers Of
great Seleucia. Milton.

11. A threadlike crease marking the face or the hand; hence,
characteristic mark.
Though on his brow were graven lines austere. Byron.
He tipples palmistry, and dines On all her fortune-telling lines.
Cleveland.

12. Lineament; feature; figure. "The lines of my boy's face." Shak.

13. A straight row; a continued series or rank; as, a line of houses,
or of soldiers; a line of barriers.
Unite thy forces and attack their lines. Dryden.

14. A series or succession of ancestors or descand ants of a given
person; a family or race; as, the ascending or descending line; the
line of descent; the male line; a line of kings.
Of his lineage am I, and his offspring By very line, as of the stock
real. Chaucer.

15. A connected series of public conveyances, and hence, an
established arrangement for forwarding merchandise, etc. ; as, a line
of stages; an express line.

16. (Geog.)
(a) A circle of latitude or of longitude, as represented on a map.
(b) The equator; -- usually called the line, or equinoctial line; as,
to cross the line.

17. A long tape, or a narrow ribbon of steel, etc., marked with
subdivisions, as feet and inches, for measuring; a tapeline.

18. (Script.)
(a) A measuring line or cord.
He marketh it out with a line. Is. xliv. 13.

(b) That which was measured by a line, as a field or any piece of
land set apart; hence, allotted place of abode.
The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yes. I have a goodly
heritage. Ps. xvi. 6.

(c) Instruction; doctrine.
Their line is gone out through all the earth. Ps. xix. 4.

19. (Mach.)

Defn: The proper relative position or adjustment of parts, not as to
design or proportion, but with reference to smooth working; as, the
engine is in line or out of line or out of line.

20. The track and roadbed of a railway; railroad.

21. (Mil.)
(a) A row of men who are abreast of one another, whether side by side
or some distance apart; -- opposed to column.
(b) The regular infantry of an army, as distinguished from militia,
guards, volunteer corps, cavalry, artillery, etc.

22. (Fort.)
(a) A trench or rampart. (b) pl.

Defn: Dispositions made to cover extended positions, and presenting a
front in but one direction to an enemy.

23. pl. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: form of a vessel as shown by the outlines of vertical,
horizontal, and obique sections.

24. (Mus.)

Defn: One of the straight horizontal and parallel prolonged strokes
on and between which the notes are placed.

25. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: A number of shares taken by a jobber.

26. (Trade)

Defn: A series of various qualities and values of the same general
class of articles; as, a full line of hosiery; a line of merinos,
etc. McElrath.

27. The wire connecting one telegraphic station with another, or the
whole of a system of telegraph wires under one management and name.

28. pl.

Defn: The reins with which a horse is guided by his driver. [U. S.]

29. A measure of length; one twelfth of an inch. Hard lines, hard
lot. C. Kingsley. [See Def. 18.] -- Line breeding (Stockbreeding),
breeding by a certain family line of descent, especially in the
selection of the dam or mother.
 -- Line conch (Zoöl.), a spiral marine shell (Fasciolaria distans),
of Florida and the West Indies. It is marked by narrow, dark,
revolving lines.
 -- Line engraving. (a) Engraving in which the effects are produced
by lines of different width and closeness, cut with the burin upon
copper or similar material; also, a plate so engraved. (b) A picture
produced by printing from such an engraving.
 -- Line of battle. (a) (Mil Tactics) The position of troops drawn up
in their usual order without any determined maneuver. (b) (Naval) The
line or arrangement formed by vessels of war in an engagement.
 -- Line of battle ship. See Ship of the line, below.
 -- Line of beauty (Fine Arts),an abstract line supposed to be
beautiful in itself and absolutely; -- differently represented by
different authors, often as a kind of elongated S (like the one drawn
by Hogarth).
 -- Line of centers. (Mach.) (a) A line joining two centers, or
fulcra, as of wheels or levers. (b) A line which determines a dead
center. See Dead center, under Dead.
 -- Line of dip (Geol.), a line in the plane of a stratum, or part of
a stratum, perpendicular to its intersection with a horizontal plane;
the line of greatest inclination of a stratum to the horizon.
 -- Line of fire (Mil.), the direction of fire.
 -- Line of force (Physics), any line in a space in which forces are
acting, so drawn that at every point of the line its tangent is the
direction of the resultant of all the forces. It cuts at right angles
every equipotential surface which it meets. Specifically (Magnetism),
a line in proximity to a magnet so drawn that any point in it is
tangential with the direction of a short compass needle held at that
point. Faraday.
 -- Line of life (Palmistry), a line on the inside of the hand,
curving about the base of the thumb, supposed to indicate, by its
form or position, the length of a person's life.
 -- Line of lines. See Gunter's line.
 -- Line of march. (Mil.) (a) Arrangement of troops for marching. (b)
Course or direction taken by an army or body of troops in marching.
 -- Line of operations, that portion of a theater of war which an
army passes over in attaining its object. H. W. Halleck.
 -- Line of sight (Firearms), the line which passes through the front
and rear sight, at any elevation, when they are sighted at an object.
 -- Line tub (Naut.), a tub in which the line carried by a whaleboat
is coiled.
 -- Mason and Dixon's line, the boundary line between Pennsylvania
and Maryland, as run before the Revolution (1764-1767) by two English
astronomers named Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon. In an extended
sense, the line between the free and the slave States.
 -- On the line, on a level with the eye of the spectator; -- said of
a picture, as hung in an exhibition of pictures.
 -- Right line a picture, as hung in an exhibition of pictures.
 -- Right line, a straight line; the shortest line that can be drawn
between two points.
 -- Ship of the line, formerly, a ship of war large enough to have a
place in the line of battle; a vessel superior to a frigate; usually,
a seventy-four, or three-decker; -- called also line of battle ship.
Totten.
 -- To cross the line, to cross the equator, as a vessel at sea.
 -- To give a person line, to allow him more or less liberty until it
is convenient to stop or check him, like a hooked fish that swims
away with the line.
 -- Water line (Shipbuilding), the outline of a horizontal section of
a vessel, as when floating in the water.

LINE
Line, v. t.

1. To mark with a line or lines; to cover with lines; as, to line a
copy book.
He had a healthy color in his cheeks, and his face, though lined,
bore few traces of anxiety. Dickens.

2. To represent by lines; to delineate; to portray. [R.] "Pictures
fairest lined." Shak.

3. To read or repeat line by line; as, to line out a hymn.
This custom of reading or lining, or, as it was frequently called
"deaconing' the hymn or psalm in the churches, was brought about
partly from necessity. N. D. Gould.

4. To form into a line; to align; as, to line troops. To line bees,
to track wild bees to their nest by following their line of flight.
 -- To line up (Mach.), to put in alignment; to put in correct
adjustment for smooth running. See 3d Line, 19.

LINEAGE
Lin"e*age, n. Etym: [OE. linage, F. lignage, fr. L. linea line. See
3d Line.]

Defn: Descent in a line from a common progenitor; progeny; race;
descending line of offspring or ascending line of parentage.
Both the lineage and the certain sire From which I sprung, from me
are hidden yet. Spenser.

LINEAL
Lin"e*al, a. Etym: [L. linealis belonging to a line, fr. linea line:
cf. F. linéal. See 3d Line.]

1. Descending in a direct line from an ancestor; hereditary; derived
from ancestors; -- opposed to collateral; as, a lineal descent or a
lineal descendant.
The prime and ancient right of lineal succession. Locke.

2. Inheriting by direct descent; having the right by direct descent
to succeed (to).
For only you are lineal to the throne. Dryden.

3. Composed of lines; delineated; as, lineal designs.

4. In the direction of a line; of a line; of or pertaining to a line;
measured on, or ascertained by, a line; linear; as, lineal magnitude.
Lineal measure, the measure of length; -- usually written linear
measure.

LINEALITY
Lin`e*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being linea

LINEALLY
Lin"e*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a lineal manner; as, the prince is lineally descended from
the Conqueror.

LINEAMENT
Lin"e*a*ment, n. Etym: [L. lineamentum, fr. linea line: cf. F.
linéament. See 3d Line.]

Defn: One of the outlines, exterior features, or distinctive marks,
of a body or figure, particularly of the face; feature; form; mark; -
- usually in the plural. "The lineaments of the body." Locke.
"Lineaments in the character." Swift.
Man he seems In all his lineaments. Milton.

LINEAR
Lin"e*ar, a. Etym: [L. linearis, linearius , fr. linea line: cf. F.
linéaire. See 3d Line.]

1. Of or pertaining to a line; consisting of lines; in a straight
direction; lineal.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Like a line; narrow; of the same breadth throughout, except at
the extremities; as, a linear leaf. Linear differential (Math.), an
equation which is of the first degree, when the expression which is
equated to zero is regarded as a function of the dependent variable
and its differential coefficients.
 -- Linear equation (Math.), an equation of the first degree between
two variables; -- so called because every such equation may be
considered as representing a right line.
 -- Linear measure, the measurement of length.
 -- Linear numbers (Math.), such numbers as have relation to length
only: such is a number which represents one side of a plane figure.
If the plane figure is square, the linear figure is called a root.
 -- Linear problem (Geom.), a problem which may be solved
geometrically by the use of right lines alone.
 -- Linear transformation (Alg.), a change of variables where each
variable is replaced by a function of the first degree in the new
variable.

LINEARENSATE
Lin`e*ar*en"sate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a sword, but very long and narrow.

LINEARLY
Lin"e*ar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a linear manner; with lines.

LINEAR-SHAPED
Lin"e*ar-shaped`, a.

Defn: Of a linear shape.

LINEARY
Lin"e*a*ry, a.

Defn: Linear. Holland.

LINEATE; LINEATED
Lin"e*ate, Lin"e*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. lineatus, p. p. of lineare to
reduce to a straight line, fr. linea line.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Marked with lines.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Marked longitudinally with depressed parallel lines; as, a
lineate leaf.

LINEATION
Lin`e*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. lineatio the drawing of a line, fr.
lineare.]

Defn: Delineation; a line or lines.

LINEATURE
Lin"e*a*ture, n.

Defn: Anything having outline. [R.] Holland.

LINEMAN
Line"man, n.; pl. Linemen (.

1. One who carried the line in surveying, etc.

2. A man employed to examine the rails of a railroad to see if they
are in good condition; also, a man employed to repair telegraph
lines.

LINEN
Lin"en, a. Etym: [OE., fr. lin linen. See Linen, n.

1.]

Defn: Made of linen; as, linen cloth; a linen stocking.

2. Resembling linen cloth; white; pale.

LINEN
Lin"en, n. Etym: [Prop. an adj. from OE. lin. flax, AS. lin flax,
whence linen made of flax; akin to OS., Icel., & MHG. lin flax and
linen, G. lein, leinen, linen, Sw. lin flax, Goth. lein linen, L.
linum flax, linen, Gr. Line, Linseed.]

1. Thread or cloth made of flax or (rarely) of hemp; -- used in a
general sense to include cambric, shirting, sheeting, towels,
tablecloths, etc. "In linen white as milk." Robert of Brunne.

2. Underclothing, esp. the shirt, as being, in former times, chiefly
made of linen. Linen draper, a dealer in linen.
 -- Linen prover, a small microscope for counting the threads in a
given space in linen fabrics.
 -- Linen scroll, Linen pattern (Arch.), an ornament for filling
panels, copied from the folds of a piece of stuff symmetrically
disposed.

LINENER
Lin"en*er, n.

Defn: A dealer in linen; a linen draper. [Obs.]

LINEOLATE
Lin"e*o*late, a. Etym: [L. lineola, dim. of linea line.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Marked with little lines.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Marked longitudinally with fine lines. Gray.

LINER
Lin"er, n.

1. One who lines, as, a liner of shoes.

2. A vessel belonging to a regular line of packets; also, a line-of-
battle ship; a ship of the line.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A thin piece placed between two parts to hold or adjust them,
fill a space, etc., ; a shim.

4. (Steam Engine)

Defn: A lining within the cylinder, in which the piston works and
between which and the outer shell of the cylinder a space is left to
form a steam jacket.

5. A slab on which small pieces of marble, tile, etc., are fastened
for grinding.

6. (Baseball)

Defn: A ball which, when struck, flies through the air in a nearly
straight line not far from the ground.

LINE-UP; LINEUP
Line"-up`, Line"up`, n.

Defn: The formation of football players before the start or a restart
of play; hence (Colloq.),

Defn: any arrangement of persons (rarely, of things), esp. when
having a common purpose or sentiment; as, the line-up at a ticket-
office window; the line-up of political factions.

-LING
-ling. Etym: [AS. -ling.]

Defn: A noun suffix, commonly having a diminutive or a depreciatory
force; as in duck-ling, dosling, hireling, fosterling, firstling,
underling.

-LING
-ling

Defn: . An adverbial suffix; as, darkling, flatling.

LING
Ling, n. Etym: [OE. lenge; akin to D. leng, G. länge, Dan. lange, Sw.
l, Icel. langa. So named from its being long. See Long, a.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A large, marine, gadoid fish (Molva vulgaris) of Northern Europe
and Greenland. It is valued as a food fish and is largely salted and
dried. Called also drizzle.
(b) The burbot of Lake Ontario.
(c) An American hake of the genus Phycis. [Canada]
(d) A New Zealand food fish of the genus Genypterus. The name is also
locally applied to other fishes, as the cultus cod, the mutton fish,
and the cobia.

LING
Ling, n. Etym: [Icel. lyng; akin to Dan. lyng, Sw. ljung.] (Bot.)

Defn: Heather (Calluna vulgaris). Ling honey, a sort of wild honey,
made from the flowers of the heather. Holland.

LINGA; LINGAM
Lin"ga, Lin"gam, n. Etym: [Skr. linga.]

Defn: The phallic symbol under which Siva is principally worshiped in
his character of the creative and reproductive power. Whitworth. E.
Arnold.

LING-BIRD
Ling"-bird`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European meadow pipit; -- called also titling.

LINGEL
Lin"gel, n. Etym: [F. ligneul, dim. of L. linea a linen thread.]

1. A shoemaker's thread. [Obs.]

2. A little tongue or thong of leather; a lacing for belts. Crabb.

LINGENCE
Lin"gence, n. Etym: [L. lingere to lick.]

Defn: A linctus. [Obs.] Fuller.

LINGER
Lin"ger, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lingered; p. pr. & vb. n. Lingering.]
Etym: [OE. lengen to tarry, AS. lengan to prolong, put off, fr. lang
long. Long, a.]

Defn: To delay; to loiter; to remain or wait long; to be slow or
reluctant in parting or moving; to be slow in deciding; to be in
suspense; to hesitate.
Nor cast one longing, lingering look behind. Gray.
Perhaps thou linger'st, in deep thoughts detained. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To loiter; lag; saunter; delay; tarry; stop; hesitate.

LINGER
Lin"ger, v. t.

1. To protract; to draw out. [Obs.]
She lingers my desires. Shak.

2. To spend or pass in lingering manner; -- with out; as, to linger
out one's days on a sick bed. Dryden.

LINGERER
Lin"ger*er, n.

Defn: One who lingers. Guardian.

LINGERIE
Lin`ge*rie, n. [F.]

Defn: Linen goods collectively; linen underwear, esp. of women; the
clothing of linen and cotton with its lace, etc., worn by a women.

LINGERING
Lin"ger*ing, a.

1. Delaying.

2. Drawn out in time; remaining long; protracted; as, a lingering
disease.
To die is the fate of man; but to die with lingering anguish is
generally his folly. Rambler.

LINGERINGLY
Lin"ger*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With delay; slowly; tediously.

LINGET
Lin"get, n. Etym: [F. lingot, perh. fr. L. lingua tongue (see
Tongue). Cf. Ingot.]

Defn: An ingot. [Written also lingot.]

LINGISM
Ling"ism, n.

Defn: A mode of treating certain diseases, as obesity, by gymnastics;
-- proposed by Pehr Henrik Ling, a Swede. See Kinesiatrics.

LINGLE
Lin"gle, n.

Defn: See Lingel.

LINGO
Lin"go, n. Etym: [L. lingua tongue, language. See Lingual.]

Defn: Language; speech; dialect. [Slang]

LINGOA WOOD
Lin*go"a wood`

Defn: . Amboyna wood.

LINGOT
Lin"got, n.

Defn: A linget or ingot; also, a mold for casting metals. See Linget.

LINGUA
Lin"gua, n.; pl. Linguæ. Etym: [L., the tongue.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A tongue.
(b) A median process of the labium, at the under side of the mouth in
insects, and serving as a tongue.

LINGUACIOUS
Lin*gua"cious, a. Etym: [L. linguax, -acis, loquacious, fr. lingua
tongue.]

Defn: Given to the use of the tongue; loquacious. [Obs.]

LINGUADENTAL
Lin`gua*den"tal, a. Etym: [L. lingua tongue + E. dental.] (Phonetics)

Defn: Formed or uttered by the joint use of the tongue and teeth, or
rather that part of the gum just above the front teeth; dentolingual,
as the letters d and t.

LINGUADENTAL
Lin`gua*den"tal, n. (Phonetics)

Defn: An articulation pronounced by the aid or use of the tongue and
teeth.

LINGUA FRANCA
Lin"gua Fran"ca. Etym: [It., prop., language of the Franks.]

Defn: The commercial language of the Levant, -- a mixture of the
language of the people of the region and foreign traders.

LINGUAL
Lin"gual, a. Etym: [L. lingua tongue: cf. F. lingual. See Tongue, and
cf. Language.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tongue; uttered by the aid of the
tongue; glossal; as, the lingual nerves; a lingual letter. Lingual
ribbon. (Zoöl.) See Odontophore.

LINGUAL
Lin"gual, n.

Defn: A consonant sound formed by the aid of the tongue; -- a term
especially applied to certain articulations (as those of t, d, th,
and n) and to the letters denoting them.

Note: In Sanskrit grammar certain letters, as t, th, d, dh, n, are
called linguals, cerebrals, or cacuminals. They are uttered with the
tip of the tongue turned up and drawn back into the dome of the
palate.

LINGUALITY
Lin*gual"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being lingual.

LINGUATULIDA
Lin`gua*tu"li*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lingua tongue.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Linguatulina.

LINGUATULINA
Lin*guat`*u*li"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lingua tongue.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of wormlike, degraded, parasitic arachnids. They have
two pairs of retractile hooks, near the mouth. Called also
Pentastomida.

Note: The adults of some species inhabit the nostrils and nasal
sinuses of dogs and other carnivores. The young, after being
swallowed by sheep, rabbits, etc., find their way to the lungs and
liver and become encysted. These, when eaten by carnivores, develop
into the adult forms.

LINGUIDENTAL
Lin`gui*den"tal, a. & n.

Defn: Linguadental.

LINGUIFORM
Lin"gui*form, a. Etym: [L. lingua tongue + -form: cf. F.
linguiforme.]

Defn: Having the form of the tongue; tongue-shaped.

LINGUIST
Lin"guist, n. Etym: [L. lingua tongue, speech, language: cf. F.
linguiste.]

1. A master of the use of language; a talker. [Obs.]
I'll dispute with him; He's a rare linguist. J. Webster.

2. A person skilled in languages.
There too were Gibbon, the greatest historian, and Jones, the
greatest linguist, of the age. Macaulay.

LINGUISTIC; LINGUISTICAL
Lin*guis"tic, Lin*guis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. linguistique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to language; relating to linguistics, or to
the affinities of languages.

LINGUISTICALLY
Lin*guis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a linguistic manner; from the point of view of a linguist.
Tylor.

LINGUISTICS
Lin*guis"tics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. linguistique.]

Defn: The science of languages, or of the origin, signification, and
application of words; glossology.

LINGULA
Lin"gu*la, n.; pl. -læ. Etym: [L., a little tongue.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A tonguelike process or part.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of brachiopod shells belonging to
the genus Lingula, and related genera. See Brachiopoda, and
Illustration in Appendix. Lingula flags (Geol.), a group of strata in
the lower Silurian or Cambrian system of Wales, in which some of the
layers contain vast numbers of a species of Lingula.

LINGULATE
Lin"gu*late, a. Etym: [L. lingulatus, fr. lingula a little tongue.
Cf. Ligulate.]

Defn: Shaped like the tongue or a strap; ligulate.

LINIGEROUS
Li*nig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. linum flax + -gerous.]

Defn: Bearing flax; producing linen.

LINIMENT
Lin"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. linimentum, fr. linire, linere, to besmear,
anoint : cf. F. liniment. Cf. Letter, Lime a viscous substance.]

Defn: A liquid or semiliquid preparation of a consistence thinner
than an ointment, applied to the skin by friction, esp. one used as a
sedative or a stimulant.

LINING
Lin"ing, n. Etym: [See Line to cover the in side.]

1. The act of one who lines; the act or process of making lines, or
of inserting a lining.

2. That which covers the inner surface of anything, as of a garment
or a box; also, the contents of anything.
The lining of his coffers shall make coats To deck our soldiers.
Shak.

LINK
Link, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupted from lint and this for lunt a torch,
match, D. lont match; akin to G. lunte, cf. MHG. lünden to burn. Cf.
Lunt, Linstock.]

Defn: A torch made of tow and pitch, or the like. Shak.

LINK
Link, n. Etym: [OE. linke, AS. hlence; akin to Sw. länk ring of a
chain, Dan. lænke chain, Icel. hlekkr; cf. G. gelenk joint, link,
ring of a chain, lenken to bend.]

1. A single ring or division of a chain.

2. Hence: Anything, whether material or not, which binds together, or
connects, separate things; a part of a connected series; a tie; a
bond. "Links of iron." Shak.

The link of brotherhood, by which One common Maker bound me to the
kind. Cowper.
And so by double links enchained themselves in lover's life.
Gascoigne.

3. Anything doubled and closed like a link; as, a link of horsehair.
Mortimer.

4. (Kinematics)

Defn: Any one of the several elementary pieces of a mechanism, as the
fixed frame, or a rod, wheel, mass of confined liquid, etc., by which
relative motion of other parts is produced and constrained.

5. (Mach.)

Defn: Any intermediate rod or piece for transmitting force or motion,
especially a short connecting rod with a bearing at each end;
specifically (Steam Engine), the slotted bar, or connecting piece, to
the opposite ends of which the eccentric rods are jointed, and by
means of which the movement of the valve is varied, in a link motion.

6. (Surveying)

Defn: The length of one joint of Gunter's chain, being the hundredth
part of it, or 7.92 inches, the chain being 66 feet in length. Cf.
Chain, n., 4.

7. (Chem.)

Defn: A bond of affinity, or a unit of valence between atoms; --
applied to a unit of chemical force or attraction.

8. pl.

Defn: Sausages; -- because linked together. [Colloq.]

LINK
Link, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Linked; p. pr. & vb. n. Linking.]

Defn: To connect or unite with a link or as with a link; to join; to
attach; to unite; to couple.
All the tribes and nations that composed it [the Roman Empire] were
linked together, not only by the same laws and the same government,
but by all the facilities of commodious intercourse, and of frequent
communication. Eustace.

LINK
Link, v. i.

Defn: To be connected.
No one generation could link with the other. Burke.

LINKAGE
Link"age, n.

1. The act of linking; the state of being linked; also, a system of
links.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Manner of linking or of being linked; -- said of the union of
atoms or radicals in the molecule.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: A system of straight lines or bars, fastened together by joins,
and having certain of their points fixed in a plane. It is used to
describe straight lines and curves in the plane.

LINKBOY; LINKMAN
Link"boy`, Link"man, n. Etym: [See 1st Link.]

Defn: A boy or man that carried a link or torch to light passengers.

LINK MOTION
Link" mo"tion. (Steam Engine)

Defn: A valve gear, consisting of two eccentrics with their rods,
giving motion to a slide valve by an adjustable connecting bar,
called the link, in such a way that the motion of the engine can be
reversed, or the cut-off varied, at will; -- used very generally in
locomotives and marine engines.

Note: The illustration shows a link motion for a vertical engine, c
representing the shaft carrying two eccentrics, a and b, for making
the engine run forward and backward, respectively, their rods e and d
being jointed to opposite ends of the slotted link f, in the opening
of which is a pin g which is attached to the valve rod h. The valve
will receive the motion of the forward eccentric when is in the
position shown, and the motion of the backward eccentric when the
link is shifted so far to the right as to bring e in line with h, or
a compound motion derived from both eccentrics when the link is
shifted to intermediate positions, the compound motion causing the
valve to cut off the steam at a point determined by the position to
which the link may have been shifted.

LINKS
Links, n. [The pl. form of Link, but often construed as a sing.]

Defn: A tract of ground laid out for the game of golf; a golfing
green.

A second links has recently been opened at Prestwick, and another at
Troon, on the same coast.
P. P. Alexander.

LINKWORK
Link"work`, n.

1. A fabric consisting of links made of metal or other material
fastened together; also, a chain.
And thou shalt make hooks of gold, and two chains of fine gold;
linkwork and wreathed. Udall.

2. Mechanism in which links, or intermediate connecting pieces, are
employed to transmit motion from one part to another.

LINNAEA BOREALIS
Lin*næ"a bo`re*a"lis. Etym: [NL.Linnaeus Linnæan + L. borealis
northern.] (Bot.)

Defn: The twin flower which grows in cold northern climates.

LINNAEAN; LINNEAN
Lin*næ"an, Lin*ne"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Linnæus, the celebrated Swedish botanist.
Linnaean system (Bot.), the system in which the classes are founded
mainly upon the stamens, and the orders upon the pistils; the
artificial or sexual system.

LINNAEITE
Lin*næ"ite, n. Etym: [See Linnæan.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of pale steel-gray color and metallic luster,
occurring in isometric crystals, and also massive. It is a sulphide
of cobalt containing some nickel or copper.

LINNE
Linne, n.

Defn: Flax. See Linen. [Obs.]

LINNET
Lin"net, n. Etym: [F. linot, linotte, from L. linum flax; or perh.
shortened from AS.linetwige, fr. AS. lin flax; -- so called because
it feeds on the seeds of flax and hemp. See Linen.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genera
Linota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species
(L. cannabina), which, in full summer plumage, is chestnut brown
above, with the breast more or less crimson. The feathers of its head
are grayish brown, tipped with crimson. Called also gray linnet, red
linnet, rose linnet, brown linnet, lintie, lintwhite, gorse thatcher,
linnet finch, and greater redpoll. The American redpoll linnet
(Acanthis linaria) often has the crown and throat rosy. See Redpoll,
and Twite. Green linnet (Zoöl.), the European green finch.

LINOLEATE
Li*no"le*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of linoleic acid.

LINOLEIC
Li*no"le*ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, linoleum, or linseed oil;
specifically (Chem.), designating an organic acid, a thin yellow oil,
found combined as a salt of glycerin in oils of linseed, poppy, hemp,
and certain nuts.

LINOLEUM
Li*no"le*um, n. Etym: [L. linum flax + oleum oil.]

1. Linseed oil brought to various degrees of hardness by some
oxidizing process, as by exposure to heated air, or by treatment with
chloride of sulphur. In this condition it is used for many of the
purposes to which India rubber has been applied.

2. A kind of floor cloth made by laying hardened linseed oil mixed
with ground cork on a canvas backing.

LINOTYPE
Lin"o*type, n. [See Line ; Type.] (Print.)
 (a) A kind of typesetting machine which produces castings, each of
which corresponds to a line of separate types. By pressing upon keys
like those of a typewriter the matrices for one line are properly
arranged; the stereotype, or slug, is then cast and planed, and the
matrices are returned to their proper places, the whole process being
automatic.
 (b) The slug produced by the machine, or matter composed in such
lines. --Lin"o*typ`ist (#), n.

LINOXIN
Li*nox"in, n. Etym: [Linoleic + oxygen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A resinous substance obtained as an oxidation product of
linoleic acid. [Written also linoxyn.]

LINSANG
Lin*sang", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any viverrine mammal of the genus Prionodon, inhabiting the
East Indies and Southern Asia. The common East Indian linsang (P.
gracilis) is white, crossed by broad, black bands. The Guinea linsang
(Porana Richardsonii) is brown with black spots.

LINSEED
Lin"seed`, n. Etym: [OE. lin flax + seed. See Linen.] (Bot.)

Defn: The seeds of flax, from which linseed oil is obtained. [Written
also lintseed.] Linseed cake, the solid mass or cake which remains
when oil is expressed.
 -- Linseed meal, linseed cake reduced to powder.
 -- Linseed oil, oil obtained by pressure from flaxseed.

LINSEY
Lin"sey, n. Etym: [See Linen.]

Defn: Linsey-woolsey.

LINSEY-WOOLSEY
Lin"sey-wool"sey, n.

1. Cloth made of linen and wool, mixed.

2. Jargon. [Obs.] Shak.

LINSEY-WOOLSEY
Lin"sey-wool"sey, a.

Defn: Made of linen and wool; hence, of different and unsuitable
parts; mean. Johnson.

LINSTOCK
Lin"stock, n. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. luntstock, D. lonistok; lont lunt +
stok stock, stick. See Link a torch, Lunt, and Stock.]

Defn: A pointed forked staff, shod with iron at the foot, to hold a
lighted match for firing cannon. [Written also lintstock.]

LINT
Lint, n. Etym: [AS. linet flax, hemp, fr. lin flax; or, perh.
borrowed fr. L. linteum a linen cloth, linen, from linteus linen, a.,
fr. lineum flax, lint. See Linen.]

1. Flax.

2. Linen scraped or otherwise made into a soft, downy or fleecy
substance for dressing wounds and sores; also, fine ravelings, down,
fluff, or loose short fibers from yarn or fabrics. Lint doctor
(Calico-printing Mach.), a scraper to remove lint from a printing
cylinder.

LINTEL
Lin"tel, n. Etym: [OE. lintel, F. linteau, LL. lintellus, for
limitellus, a dim. fr. L. limes limit. See Limit.] (Arch.)

Defn: A horizontal member spanning an opening, and carrying the
superincumbent weight by means of its strength in resisting crosswise
fracture.

LINTIE; LINTWHITE
Lin"tie, Lint"white`, n. Etym: [AS. linetwige. See Linnet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Linnet. Tennyson.

LINTSEED
Lint"seed`, n.

Defn: See Linseed.

LINUM
Li"num, n. Etym: [L., flax.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous plants including the flax (Linum
usitatissimum).

LION
Li"on, n. Etym: [F. lion, L. leo, -onis, akin to Gr. Chameleon,
Dandelion, Leopard.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo), found in
Southern Asia and in most parts of Africa, distinct varieties
occurring in the different countries. The adult male, in most
varieties, has a thick mane of long shaggy hair that adds to his
apparent size, which is less than that of the largest tigers. The
length, however, is sometimes eleven feet to the base of the tail.
The color is a tawny yellow or yellowish brown; the mane is darker,
and the terminal tuft of the tail is black. In one variety, called
the maneless lion, the male has only a slight mane.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A sign and a constellation; Leo.

3. An object of interest and curiosity, especially a person who is so
regarded; as, he was quite a lion in London at that time.
Such society was far more enjoyable than that of Edinburgh, for here
he was not a lion, but a man. Prof. Wilson.
American lion (Zoöl.), the puma or cougar.
 -- Lion ant (Zoöl.), the ant-lion.
 -- Lion dog (Zoöl.), a fancy dog with a flowing mane, usually
clipped to resemble a lion's mane.
 -- Lion lizard (Zoöl.), the basilisk.
 -- Lion's share, all, or nearly all; the best or largest part; --
from Æsop's fable of the lion hunting in company with certain smaller
beasts, and appropriating to himself all the prey.

LIONCED
Li"onced, a. (Her.)

Defn: Adorned with lions heads; having arms terminating in lions'
heads; -- said of a cross. [Written also leonced.]

LIONCEL
Li"on*cel, n. Etym: [OE., F. lionceau, dim. of lion.] (Her.)

Defn: A small lion, especially one of several borne in the same coat
of arms.

LIONEL
Li"on*el, n. Etym: [OF., dim. of lion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The whelp of a lioness; a young lion.

LIONESS
Li"on*ess, n. Etym: [OF. lionesse.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A female lion.

LIONET
Li"on*et, n. Etym: [OF., dim. of lion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young or small lion.

LION-HEART
Li"on-heart`, n.

Defn: A very brave person.

LION-HEARTED
Li"on-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Very brave; brave and magnanimous. Sir W. Scott.

LIONHOOD
Li"on*hood, n.

Defn: State of being a lion. Carlyle.

LIONISM
Li"on*ism, n.

Defn: An attracting of attention, as a lion; also, the treating or
regarding as a lion.

LIONIZE
Li"on*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lionized, p. pr. & vb. n. Lionizing
(.]

1. To treat or regard as a lion or object of great interest. J. D.
Forbes.

2. To show the lions or objects of interest to; to conduct about
among objects of interest. Macaulay.

LIONLIKE
Li"on*like`, a.

Defn: Like a lion; brave as a lion.

LIONLY
Li"on*ly, a.

Defn: Like a lion; fierce. [Obs.] Milton.

LION'S EAR
Li"on's ear`. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given in Western South America to certain plants with
shaggy tomentose leaves, as species of Culcitium, and Espeletia.

LION'S FOOT
Li"on's foot`. (Bot.)
(a) A composite plant of the genus Prenanthes, of which several
species are found in the United States.
(b) The edelweiss.

LIONSHIP
Li"on*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a lion.

LION'S LEAF
Li"on's leaf`. (Bot.)

Defn: A South European plant of the genus Leontice (L.
leontopetalum), the tuberous roots of which contain so much alkali
that they are sometimes used as a substitute for soap.

LION'S TAIL
Li"on's tail`. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of labiate plants (Leonurus); -- so called from a
fancied resemblance of its flower spikes to the tuft of a lion's
tail. L. Cardiaca is the common motherwort.

LION'S TOOTH
Li"on's tooth`; pl. Lions' teeth (. (Bot.)

Defn: See Leontodon.

LIP
Lip, n. Etym: [OE. lippe, AS. lippa; akin to D. lip, G. lippe, lefze,
OHG. lefs, Dan. læbe, Sw. läpp, L. labium, labrum. Cf. Labial.]

1. One of the two fleshy folds which surround the orifice of the
mouth in man and many other animals. In man the lips are organs of
speech essential to certain articulations. Hence, by a figure they
denote the mouth, or all the organs of speech, and sometimes speech
itself.
Thine own lips testify against thee. Jeb xv. 6.

2. An edge of an opening; a thin projecting part of anything; a kind
of short open spout; as, the lip of a vessel.

3. The sharp cutting edge on the end of an auger.

4. (Bot.)
(a) One of the two opposite divisions of a labiate corolla.
(b) The odd and peculiar petal in the Orchis family. See
Orchidaceous.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the edges of the aperture of a univalve shell. Lip bit,
a pod auger. See Auger.
 -- Lip comfort, comfort that is given with words only.
 -- Lip comforter, one who comforts with words only.
 -- Lip labor, unfelt or insincere speech; hypocrisy. Bale.
 -- Lip reading, the catching of the words or meaning of one speaking
by watching the motion of his lips without hearing his voice.
Carpenter.
 -- Lip salve, a salve for sore lips.
 -- Lip service, expression by the lips of obedience and devotion
without the performance of acts suitable to such sentiments.
 -- Lip wisdom, wise talk without practice, or unsupported by
experience.
 -- Lip work. (a) Talk. (b) Kissing. [Humorous] B. Jonson.
 -- Lip make a lip, to drop the under lip in sullenness or contempt.
Shak.
 -- To shoot out the lip (Script.), to show contempt by protruding
the lip.

LIP
Lip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Lipping.]

1. To touch with the lips; to put the lips to; hence, to kiss.
The bubble on the wine which breaks Before you lip the glass. Praed.
A hand that kings Have lipped and trembled kissing. Shak.

2. To utter; to speak. [R.] Keats.

LIP
Lip, v. t.

Defn: To clip; to trim. [Obs.] Holland.

LIPAEMIA
Li*pæ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A condition in which fat occurs in the blood.

LIPANS
Li*pans", n. pl.; sing. Lipan (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of North American Inedians, inhabiting the northern
part of Mexico. They belong to the Tinneh stock, and are closely
related to the Apaches.

LIPARIAN
Li*pa"ri*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of a family (Liparidæ) of destructive bombycid
moths, as the tussock moths.

LIPARITE
Lip"a*rite, n. Etym: [So called from Lipari, the island.] (Min.)

Defn: A quartzose trachyte; rhyolite.

LIPIC
Lip"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, fat. The word was formerly used
specifically to designate a supposed acid obtained by the oxidation
of oleic acid, tallow, wax, etc.

LIPINIC
Li*pin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Lipic.

LIPLESS
Lip"less, a

Defn: , Having no lips.

LIPLET
Lip"let, n.

Defn: A little lip.

LIPOCEPHALA
Lip`o*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Lamellibranchia.

LIPOCHRIN
Lip"o*chrin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A yellow coloring matter, soluble in ether, contained in the
small round fat drops in the retinal epithelium cells. It is best
obtained from the eyes of frogs.

LIPOGRAM
Lip"o*gram, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A writing composed of words not having a certain letters; -- as
in the Odyssey of Tryphiodorus there was no A in the first book, no B
in the second, and so on.

LIPOGRAMMATIC
Lip"o*gram*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. lipogrammatique.]

Defn: Omitting a letter; composed of words not having a certain
letter or letters; as, lipogrammatic writings.

LIPOGRAMMATIST
Lip`o*gram"ma*tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lipogrammatiste.]

Defn: One who makes a lipogram.

LIPOMA
Li*po"ma, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A tumor consisting of fat or adipose tissue.
 -- Li*pom"a*tous, a.

LIPOTHYMIC
Li`po*thym"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. ,

Defn: Tending to swoon; fainting. [Written also leipothymic.]

LIPOTHYMOUS
Li*poth"y*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining, or given, to swooning; fainting.

LIPOTHYMY
Li*poth"y*my, n. Etym: [Gr. lipothymie.]

Defn: A fainting; a swoon. Jer. Taylor.

LIPPED
Lipped, a.

1. Having a lip or lips; having a raised or rounded edge resembling
the lip; -- often used in composition; as, thick-lipped, thin-lipped,
etc.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Labiate.

LIPPITUDE
Lip"pi*tude, n. Etym: [L. lippitudo, fr. lippus blear-eyed: cf. F.
lippitude.]

Defn: Soreness of eyes; the state of being blear-eyes; blearedness.

LIPSE
Lipse, v. i.

Defn: To lisp. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LIPYL
Lip"yl, n. Etym: [Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical of glycerin. [Obs.] Berzelius.

LIQUABLE
Liq"ua*ble, a. Etym: [l. liquabilis. See Liquate, v. i.]

Defn: Capable of being melted.

LIQUATE
Li"quate, v. i. Etym: [L. liquatus, p. p. of liquare to melt.]

Defn: To melt; to become liquid. [Obs.] Woodward.

LIQUATE
Li"quate, v. t. (Metal.)

Defn: To separate by fusion, as a more fusible from a less fusible
material.

LIQUATION
Li*qua"tion, n. Etym: [L. liquatio: cf. F. liquation.]

1. The act or operation of making or becoming liquid; also, the
capacity of becoming liquid.

2. (Metal.)

Defn: The process of separating, by heat, an easily fusible metal
from one less fusible; eliquation.

LIQUEFACIENT
Liq`ue*fa"cient, n. Etym: [L. liquefaciens, p. pr. of liquefacere.
See Liquefy.]

1. That which serves to liquefy.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An agent, as mercury, iodine, etc., which promotes the
liquefying processes of the system, and increases the secretions.

LIQUEFACTION
Liq`ue*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. liquefactio: cf. F. liquéfaction. See
Liquefy.]

1. The act or operation of making or becoming liquid; especially, the
conversion of a solid into a liquid by the sole agency of heat.

2. The state of being liquid.

3. (Chem. Physics)

Defn: The act, process, or method, of reducing a gas or vapor to a
liquid by cold or pressure; as, the liquefaction of oxygen or
hydrogen.

LIQUEFIABLE
Liq"ue*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. liquéfiable. See Liquefy.]

Defn: Capable of being changed from a solid to a liquid state.

LIQUEFIER
Liq"ue*fi`er, n.

Defn: That which liquefies.

LIQUEFY
Liq"ue*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liquefied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Liquefying.] Etym: [F. liquéfier, L. liquere to be liquid + facere, -
ficare (in comp.), to make. See Liquid, and -fy.]

Defn: To convert from a solid form to that of a liquid; to melt; to
dissolve; and technically, to melt by the sole agency of heat.

LIQUEFY
Liq"ue*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become liquid.

LIQUESCENCY
Li*ques"cen*cy, n. Etym: [See Liquescent.]

Defn: The quality or state of being liquescent. Johnson.

LIQUESCENT
Li*ques"cent, a. Etym: [L. liquescens, p. pr. of liquescere to become
liquid, incho. fr. liquere to be liquid.]

Defn: Tending to become liquid; inclined to melt to melt; melting.

LIQUEUR
Li`queur", n. Etym: [F. See Liquor.]

Defn: An aromatic alcoholic cordial.

Note: Some liqueurs are prepared by infusing certain woods, fruits,
or flowers, in either water or alcohol, and adding sugar, etc. Others
are distilled from aromatic or flavoring agents.

LIQUID
Liq"uid, a. Etym: [L. liquidus, fr. liquere to be fluid or liquid;
cf. Skr. ri to ooze, drop, li to melt.]

1. Flowing freely like water; fluid; not solid.
Yes, though he go upon the plane and liquid water which will receive
no step. Tyndale.

2. (Physics)

Defn: Being in such a state that the component parts move among
themselves, but do not tend to separate from each other as the
particles of gases and vapors do; neither solid nor aëriform; as,
liquid mercury, in distinction from mercury solidified or in a state
of vapor.

3. Flowing or sounding smoothly or without abrupt transitions or
harsh tones. "Liquid melody." Crashaw.

4. Pronounced without any jar or harshness; smooth; as, l and r are
liquid letters.

5. Fluid and transparent; as, the liquid air.

6. Clear; definite in terms or amount.[Obs.] "Though the debt should
be entirely liquid." Ayliffe. Liquid glass. See Soluble glass, under
Glass.

LIQUID
Liq"uid, n.

1. A substance whose parts change their relative position on the
slightest pressure, and therefore retain no definite form; any
substance in the state of liquidity; a fluid that is not aëriform.

Note: Liquid and fluid are terms often used synonymously, but fluid
has the broader signification. All liquids are fluids, but many
fluids, as air and the gases, are not liquids.

2. (Phon.)

Defn: A letter which has a smooth, flowing sound, or which flows
smoothly after a mute; as, l and r, in bla, bra. M and n also are
called liquids. Liquid measure, a measure, or system of measuring,
for liquids, by the gallon, quart, pint, gill, etc.

LIQUID AIR
Liq"uid air. (Physics)

Defn: A transparent limpid liquid, slightly blue in color, consisting
of a mixture of liquefied oxygen and nitrogen. It is prepared by
subjecting air to great pressure and then cooling it by its own
expansion to a temperature below the boiling point of its
constituents  (N -194º C; O -183º C.).

LIQUIDAMBAR
Liq"uid*am`bar, n. Etym: [Liquid + amber.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus consisting of two species of tall trees having star-
shaped leaves, and woody burlike fruit. Liquidambar styraciflua is
the North American sweet qum, and L. Orientalis is found in Asia
Minor.

2. The balsamic juice which is obtained from these trees by incision.
The liquid balsam of the Oriental tree is liquid storax.

LIQUIDAMBER
Liq"uid*am`ber, n.

Defn: See Liquidambar.

LIQUIDATE
Liq"ui*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liquidated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Liquidating.] Etym: [LL. liquidatus, p. p. of liquidate to liquidate,
fr. L. liquidus liquid, clear. See Liquid.]

1. (Law)

Defn: To determine by agreement or by litigation the precise amount
of (indebtedness); or, where there is an indebtedness to more than
one person, to determine the precise amount of (each indebtedness);
to make the amount of (an indebtedness); clear and certain.
A debt or demand is liquidated whenever the amount due is agreed on
by the parties, or fixed by the operation of law. 15 Ga. Rep. 821.
If our epistolary accounts were fairly liquidated, I believe you
would be brought in considerable debtor. Chesterfield.

2. In an extended sense: To ascertain the amount, or the several
amounts, of , and apply assets toward the discharge of (an
indebtedness). Abbott.

3. To discharge; to pay off, as an indebtedness.
Friburg was ceded to Zurich by Sigismund to liquidate a debt of a
thousand florins. W. Coxe.

4. To make clear and intelligible.
Time only can liquidate the meaning of all parts of a compound
system. A. Hamilton.

5. To make liquid. [Obs.] Liquidated damages (Law), damages the
amount of which is fixed or ascertained. Abbott.

LIQUIDATION
Liq`ui*da"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. liquidation.]

Defn: The act or process of liquidating; the state of being
liquidated. To go into liquidation (Law), to turn over to a trustee
one's assets and accounts, in order that the several amounts of one's
indebtedness be authoritatively ascertained, and that the assets may
be applied toward their discharge.

LIQUIDATOR
Liq"ui*da`tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. liquidateur.]

1. One who, or that which, liquidates.

2. An officer appointed to conduct the winding up of a company, to
bring and defend actions and suits in its name, and to do all
necessary acts on behalf of the company. [Eng.] Mozley & W.

LIQUIDITY
Li*quid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. liquiditas, fr. liquidus liquid: cf. F.
liquidité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being liquid.

LIQUIDIZE
Liq"uid*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liquidized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Liquidizing.]

Defn: To render liquid.

LIQUIDLY
Liq"uid*ly, adv.

Defn: In a liquid manner; flowingly.

LIQUIDNESS
Liq"uid*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being liquid; liquidity; fluency.

LIQUOR
Liq"uor, n. Etym: [OE. licour, licur, OF. licur, F. liqueur, fr. L.
liquor, fr. liquere to be liquid. See Liquid, and cf. Liqueur.]

1. Any liquid substance, as water, milk, blood, sap, juice, or the
like.

2. Specifically, alcoholic or spirituous fluid, either distilled or
fermented, as brandy, wine, whisky, beer, etc.

3. (Pharm.)

Defn: A solution of a medicinal substance in water; -- distinguished
from tincture and aqua.

Note: The U. S. Pharmacopoeia includes, in this class of
preparations, all aqueous solutions without sugar, in which the
substance acted on is wholly soluble in water, excluding those in
which the dissolved matter is gaseous or very volatile, as in the
aquæ or waters. U. S. Disp. Labarraque's liquor (Old Chem.), a
solution of an alkaline hypochlorite, as sodium hypochlorite, used in
bleaching and as a disinfectant.
 -- Liquor of flints, or Liquor silicum (Old Chem.), soluble glass; -
- so called because formerly made from powdered flints. See Soluble
glass, under Glass.
 -- Liquor of Libavius. (Old Chem.) See Fuming liquor of Libavius,
under Fuming.
 -- Liquor sanguinis (, (Physiol.), the blood plasma.
 -- Liquor thief, a tube for taking samples of liquor from a cask
through the bung hole.
 -- To be in liquor, to be intoxicated.

LIQUOR
Liq"uor, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Liquored; p. pr. & vb. n. Liquoring.]

1. To supply with liquor. [R.]

2. To grease. [Obs.] Bacon.
Liquor fishermen's boots. Shak.

LIQUORICE
Liq"uor*ice, n.

Defn: See Licorice.

LIQUORISH
Liq"uor*ish, a.

Defn: See Lickerish. [Obs.] Shak.

LIQUOROUS
Liq"uor*ous, a.

Defn: Eagerly desirous. See Lickerish. [Obs.] Marston.

LIRA
Li"ra, n. ; pl. Lire. Etym: [It., fr. L. libra the Roman pound. Cf.
Livre.]

Defn: An Italian coin equivalent in value to the French franc.

LIRELLA
Li*rel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L.lira a furrow.] (Bot.)

Defn: A linear apothecium furrowed along the middle; the fruit of
certain lichens.

LIRELLIFORM
Li*rel"li*form, a. Etym: [Lirella + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Like a lirella. [Written also lirellæform.]

LIRIODENDRON
Lir`i*o*den"dron, n.; pl. Liriodendra. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of large and very beautiful trees of North America,
having smooth, shining leaves, and handsome, tuliplike flowers; tulip
tree; whitewood; -- called also canoewood. Liriodendron tulipifera is
the only extant species, but there were several others in the
Cretaceous epoch.

LIRIPIPE
Lir"i*pipe, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Liripoop.

LIRIPOOP
Lir"i*poop, n. Etym: [OF. liripipion, liripion, LL. liripipium. Said
to be corrupted from L. cleri ephippium, lit., the clergy's
caparison.]

1. A pendent part of the old clerical tippet; afterwards, a tippet; a
scarf; -- worn also by doctors, learned men, etc. [Obs.]

2. Acuteness; smartness; also, a smart trick or stratagem.[Obs.]
Stanihurst.

3. A silly person. [Obs.]
A liripoop, vel lerripoop, a silly, empty creature; an old dotard.
Milles. MS. Devon Gloss.

LIROCONITE
Li*roc"o*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrated arseniate of copper, occurring in obtuse pyramidal
crystals of a sky-blue or verdigris-green color.

LISBON
Lis"bon, n.

Defn: A sweet, light-colored species of wine, produced in the
province of Estremadura, and so called as being shipped from Lisbon,
in Portugal.

LISLE
Lisle, n.

Defn: A city of France celebrated for certain manufactures. Lisle
glove, a fine summer glove, made of Lisle thread.
 -- Lisle lace, a fine handmade lace, made at Lisle.
 -- Lisle thread, a hard twisted cotton thread, originally produced
at Lisle.

LISNE
Lisne, n. Etym: [Prov. E. lissen, lisne, a cleft in a rock.]

Defn: A cavity or hollow.[Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

LISP
Lisp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lisped; p. pr. & vb. n. Lisping.] Etym:
[OE. lispen, lipsen, AS. wlisp stammering, lisping; akin to D. & OHG.
lispen to lisp, G. lispeln, Sw. läspa, Dan. lespe.]

1. To pronounce the sibilant letter s imperfectly; to give s and z
the sound of th; -- a defect common among children.

2. To speak with imperfect articulation; to mispronounce, as a child
learning to talk.
As yet a child, nor yet a fool to fame, I lisped in numbers came.
Pope.

3. To speak hesitatingly with a low voice, as if afraid.
Lest when my lisping, guilty tongue should halt. Drayton.

LISP
Lisp, v. t.

1. To pronounce with a lisp.

2. To utter with imperfect articulation; to express with words
pronounced imperfectly or indistinctly, as a child speaks; hence, to
express by the use of simple, childlike language.
To speak unto them after their own capacity, and to lispe words unto
them according as the babes and children of that age might sound them
again. Tyndale.

3. To speak with reserve or concealment; to utter timidly or
confidentially; as, to lisp treason.

LISP
Lisp, n.

Defn: The habit or act of lisping. See Lisp, v. i., 1.
I overheard her answer, with a very pretty lisp, "O! Strephon, you
are a dangerous creature." Tatler.

LISPER
Lisp"er, n.

Defn: One who lisps.

LISPINGLY
Lisp"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With a lisp; in a lisping manner.

LISS
Liss, n. Etym: [AS. liss.]

Defn: Release; remission; ease; relief. [Obs.] "Of penance had a
lisse." Chaucer.

LISS
Liss, v. t. Etym: [AS. lissan.]

Defn: To free, as from care or pain; to relieve. [Obs.] "Lissed of
his care." Chaucer.

LISSENCEPHALA
Lis`sen*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A general name for all those placental mammals that have a
brain with few or no cerebral convolutions, as Rodentia, Insectivora,
etc.

LISSOM; LISSOME
Lis"som, Lis"some, a. Etym: [For lithesome.]

1. Limber; supple; flexible; lithe; lithesome.
Straight, but as lissome as a hazel wand. Tennyson.

2. Light; nimble; active. Halliwell.
 -- Lis"some*ness, n.

LIST
List, n. Etym: [F. lice, LL. liciae, pl., from L. licium thread,
girdle.]

Defn: A line inclosing or forming the extremity of a piece of ground,
or field of combat; hence, in the plural (lists), the ground or field
inclosed for a race or combat. Chaucer.
In measured lists to toss the weighty lance. Pope.
To enter the lists, to accept a challenge, or engage in contest.

LIST
List, v. t.

Defn: To inclose for combat; as, to list a field.

LIST
List, v. i. Etym: [See Listen.]

Defn: To hearken; to attend; to listen. [Obs. except in poetry.]
Stand close, and list to him. Shak.

LIST
List, v. t.

Defn: To listen or hearken to.
Then weigh what loss your honor may sustain, If with too credent ear
you list his songs. Shak.

LIST
List, v. i. Etym: [OE. listen, lusten, AS. lystan, from lust
pleasure. See Lust.]

1. To desire or choose; to please.
The wind bloweth where it listeth. John iii. 8.
Them that add to the Word of God what them listeth. Hooker.
Let other men think of your devices as they list. Whitgift.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To lean; to incline; as, the ship lists to port.

LIST
List, n.

1. Inclination; desire. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: An inclination to one side; as, the ship has a list to
starboard.

LIST
List, n. Etym: [AS. list a list of cloth; akin to D. lijst, G.
leiste, OHG. lista,Icel. lista, listi, Sw. list, Dan. liste. In sense
5 from F. liste, of German origin, and thus ultimately the same
word.]

1. A strip forming the woven border or selvedge of cloth,
particularly of broadcloth, and serving to strengthen it; hence, a
strip of cloth; a fillet. " Gartered with a red and blue list. "

Shak.

2. A limit or boundary; a border.
The very list, the very utmost bound, Of all our fortunes. Shak.

3. The lobe of the ear; the ear itself. [Obs.] Chaucer.

4. A stripe. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

5. A roll or catalogue, that is row or line; a record of names; as, a
list of names, books, articles; a list of ratable estate.
He was the ablest emperor of all the list. Bacon.

6. (Arch.)

Defn: A little square molding; a fillet; -- called also listel.

7. (Carp.)

Defn: A narrow strip of wood, esp. sapwood, cut from the edge of a
plank or board.

8. (Rope Making)

Defn: A piece of woolen cloth with which the yarns are grasped by a
workman.

9. (Tin-plate Manuf.)
(a) The first thin coat of tin.
(b) A wirelike rim of tin left on an edge of the plate after it is
coated. Civil list (Great Britain & U.S.), the civil officers of
government, as judges, ambassadors, secretaries, etc. Hence, the
revenues or appropriations of public money for the support of the
civil officers. More recently, the civil list, in England, embraces
only the expenses of the reigning monarch's household. Free list. (a)
A list of articles admitted to a country free of duty. (b) A list of
persons admitted to any entertainment, as a theater or opera, without
payment, or to whom a periodical, or the like, is furnished without
cost.

Syn.
 -- Roll; catalogue; register; inventory; schedule.
 -- List, Boll, Catalogue, Register, Inventory, Schedule. Alist is
properly a simple series of names, etc., in a brief form, such as
might naturally be entered in a narrow strip of paper. A roll was
originally a list containing the names of persons belonging to a
public body (as Parliament, etc.), which was rolled up and laid aside
among its archives. A catalogue is a list of persons or things
arranged in order, and usually containing some description of the
same, more or less extended. A register is designed for record or
preservation. An inventory is a list of articles, found on hand in a
store of goods, or in the estate of a deceased person, or under
similar circumstances. A schedule is a formal list or inventory
prepared for legal or business purposes.

LIST
List, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Listed; p. pr. & vb. n. Listing.] Etym:
[From list a roll.]

1. To sew together, as strips of cloth, so as to make a show of
colors, or form a border. Sir H. Wotton.

2. To cover with list, or with strips of cloth; to put list on; as,
to list a door; to stripe as if with list.
The tree that stood white-listed through the gloom. Tennyson.

3. To enroll; to place or register in a list.
Listed among the upper serving men. Milton.

4. To engage, as a soldier; to enlist.
I will list you for my soldier. Sir W. Scott.

5. (Carp.)

Defn: To cut away a narrow strip, as of sapwood, from the edge of;
as, to list a board. To list a stock (Stock Exchange), to put it in
the list of stocks called at the meeting of the board.

LIST
List, v. i.

Defn: To engage in public service by enrolling one's name; to enlist.

LISTEL
List"el, n. Etym: [F. listel, dim. of liste fillet, list. See List
the edge.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as List, n., 6.

LISTEN
Lis"ten, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Listened; p. pr. & vb. n. Listening.]
Etym: [OE. listnen, listen, lustnen, lusten, AS. hlystan; akin to
hlyst hearing, OS. hlust, Icel. hlusta to listen, hlust ear, AS.
hlosnian to wait in suspense, OHG. hlosen to listen, Gr. loud. sq.
root41. See Loud, and cf. List to listen.]

1. To give close attention with the purpose of hearing; to give ear;
to hearken; to attend.
When we have occasion to listen, and give a more particular attention
to same sound, the tympanum is drawn to a more than ordinary tension.
Holder.

2. To give heed; to yield to advice; to follow admonition; to obey.
Listen to me, and by me be ruled. Tennyson.
To listen after, to take an interest in. [Obs.]
Soldiers note forts, armories, and magazines; scholars listen after
libraries, disputations, and professors. Fuller.

Syn.
 -- To attend; hearken. See Attend.

LISTEN
Lis"ten, v. t.

Defn: To attend to. [Obs.] Shak.

LISTENER
Lis"ten*er, n.

Defn: One who listens; a hearkener.

LISTER
List"er, n.

Defn: One who makes a list or roll.

LISTER
Lis"ter, n.

Defn: Same as Leister.

LISTERIAN
Lis*te"ri*an, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to listerism.

LISTERISM
Lis"ter*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: The systematic use of antiseptics in the performance of
operations and the treatment of wounds; -- so called from Joseph
Lister, an English surgeon.

LISTERIZE
Lis"ter*ize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -ized; p. pr. & vb. n. -izing.]
(Med.)

Defn: To make antiseptic.

LISTFUL
List"ful, a.

Defn: Attentive [Obs.] Spenser.

LISTING
List"ing, n.

1. The act or process of one who lists (in any sense of the verb);
as, the listing of a door; the listing of a stock at the Stock
Exchange.

2. The selvedge of cloth; list.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: The sapwood cut from the edge of a board.

4. (Agric.)

Defn: The throwing up of the soil into ridges, -- a method adopted in
the culture of beets and some garden crops. [Local, U. S.]

LISTLESS
List"less, a. Etym: [OE. listles, lustles. See Lust.]

Defn: Having no desire or inclination; indifferent; heedless;
spiritless. " A listless unconcern." Thomson.
Benumbed with cold, and listless of their gain. Dryden.
I was listless, and desponding. Swift.

Syn.
 -- Heedless; careless; indifferent; vacant; uninterested; languid;
spiritless; supine; indolent.
 -- List"less*ly, adv.
 -- List"less*ness, n.

LIT
Lit

Defn: , a form of the imp. & p. p. of Light.

LITANY
Lit"a*ny, n.; pl. Litanies. Etym: [OE. letanie, OF. letanie, F.
litanie, L. litania, Gr.

Defn: A solemn form of supplication in the public worship of various
churches, in which the clergy and congregation join, the former
leading and the latter responding in alternate sentences. It is
usually of a penitential character.
Supplications . . . for the appeasing of God's wrath were of the
Greek church termed litanies, and rogations of the Latin. Hooker.

LITARGE
Lit"arge, n.

Defn: Litharge. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LITCHI
Li"tchi`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi). It is
nutlike, having a rough but tender shell, containing an aromatic
pulp, and a single large seed. In the dried fruit which is exported
the pulp somewhat resembles a raisin in color and form. [Written also
lichi, and lychee.] -- lite. See -lith.

LITE
Lite, a., adv., & n.

Defn: Little. [Obs.] Chaucer.

LITER; LITRE
Li"ter, Li"tre, n. Etym: [F. litre, Gr.

Defn: A measure of capacity in the metric system, being a cubic
decimeter, equal to 61.022 cubic inches, or 2.113 American pints, or
1.76 English pints.

LITERACY
Lit"er*a*cy, n.

Defn: State of being literate.

LITERAL
Lit"er*al, a. Etym: [F. litéral, littéral, L. litteralis, literalis,
fr. littera, litera, a letter. See Letter.]

1. According to the letter or verbal expression; real; not figurative
or metaphorical; as, the literal meaning of a phrase.
It hath but one simple literal sense whose light the owls can not
abide. Tyndale
.

2. Following the letter or exact words; not free.
A middle course between the rigor of literal translations and the
liberty of paraphrasts. Hooker.

3. Consisting of, or expressed by, letters.
The literal notation of numbers was known to Europeans before the
ciphers. Johnson.

4. Giving a strict or literal construction; unimaginative; matter-of
fast; -- applied to persons. Literal contract (Law), contract of
which the whole evidence is given in writing. Bouvier.
 -- Literal equation (Math.), an equation in which known quantities
are expressed either wholly or in part by means of letters; --
distinguished from a numerical equation.

LITERAL
Lit"er*al, n.

Defn: Literal meaning. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

LITERALISM
Lit"er*al*ism, n.

1. That which accords with the letter; a mode of interpreting
literally; adherence to the letter.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The tendency or disposition to represent objects faithfully,
without abstraction, conventionalities, or idealization.

LITERALIST
Lit"er*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who adheres to the letter or exact word; an interpreter
according to the letter.

LITERALITY
Lit`er*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. littéralité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being literal. Sir T. Browne.

LITERALIZATION
Lit`er*al*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of literalizing; reduction to a literal meaning.

LITERALIZE
Lit"er*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Literalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Literalizing.]

Defn: To make literal; to interpret or put in practice according to
the strict meaning of the words; -- opposed to spiritualize; as, to
literalize Scripture.

LITERALIZER
Lit"er*al*i`zer, n.

Defn: A literalist.

LITERALLY
Lit"er*al*ly, adv.

1. According to the primary and natural import of words; not
figuratively; as, a man and his wife can not be literally one flesh.

2. With close adherence to words; word by word.
So wild and ungovernable a poet can not be translated literally.
Dryden.

LITERALNESS
Lit"er*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being literal; literal import.

LITERARY
Lit"er*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. litterarius, literarius,fr. littera,
litera, a letter: cf. F. littéraire. See Letter.]

1. Of or pertaining to letters or literature; pertaining to learning
or learned men; as, literary fame; a literary history; literary
conversation.
He has long outlived his century, the term commonly fixed as the test
of literary merit. Johnson.

2. Versed in, or acquainted with, literature; occupied with
literature as a profession; connected with literature or with men of
letters; as, a literary man.
In the literary as well as fashionable world. Mason.
Literary property. (a) Property which consists in written or printed
compositions. (b) The exclusive right of publication as recognized
and limited by law.

LITERATE
Lit"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. litteratus, literatus. See Letter.]

Defn: Instructed in learning, science, or literature; learned;
lettered.
The literate now chose their emperor, as the military chose theirs.
Landor.

LITERATE
Lit"er*ate, n.

1. One educated, but not having taken a university degree;
especially, such a person who is prepared to take holy orders. [Eng.]

2. A literary man.

LITERATI
Lit`e*ra"ti, n. pl. Etym: [See Literatus.]

Defn: Learned or literary men. See Literatus.
Shakespearean commentators, and other literati. Craik.

LITERATIM
Lit`e*ra"tim, adv. Etym: [LL., fr. L.litera, litera, letter.]

Defn: Letter for letter.

LITERATION
Lit`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. littera, litera, letter.]

Defn: The act or process of representing by letters.

LITERATOR
Lit"er*a`tor, n. Etym: [L. litterator, literator. See Letter.]

1. One who teaches the letters or elements of knowledge; a petty
schoolmaster. Burke.

2. A person devoted to the study of literary trifles, esp. trifles
belonging to the literature of a former age.
That class of subjects which are interesting to the regular literator
or black-letter " bibliomane," simply because they have once been
interesting. De Quincey.

3. A learned person; a literatus. Sir W. Hamilton.

LITERATURE
Lit"er*a*ture, n. Etym: [F. littérature, L. litteratura, literatura,
learning, grammar, writing, fr.littera, litera, letter. See Letter.]

1. Learning; acquaintance with letters or books.

2. The collective body of literary productions, embracing the entire
results of knowledge and fancy preserved in writing; also, the whole
body of literary productions or writings upon a given subject, or in
reference to a particular science or branch of knowledge, or of a
given country or period; as, the literature of Biblical criticism;
the literature of chemistry.

3. The class of writings distinguished for beauty of style or
expression, as poetry, essays, or history, in distinction from
scientific treatises and works which contain positive knowledge;
belles-lettres.

4. The occupation, profession, or business of doing literary work.
Lamp.

Syn.
 -- Science; learning; erudition; belles-lettres. See Science.
 -- Literature, Learning, Erudition. Literature, in its widest sense,
embraces all compositions in writing or print which preserve the
results of observation, thought, or fancy; but those upon the
positive sciences (mathematics, etc.) are usually excluded. It is
often confined, however, to belles-lettres, or works of taste and
sentiment, as poetry, eloquence, history, etc., excluding abstract
discussions and mere erudition. A man of literature (in this
narrowest sense) is one who is versed in belles-lettres; a man of
learning excels in what is taught in the schools, and has a wide
extent of knowledge, especially, in respect to the past; a man of
erudition is one who is skilled in the more recondite branches of
learned inquiry.
The origin of all positive science and philosophy, as well as of all
literature and art, in the forms in which they exist in civilized
Europe, must be traced to the Greeks. Sir G. Lewis.
Learning thy talent is, but mine is sense. Prior.
Some gentlemen, abounding in their university erudition, fill their
sermons with philosophical terms. Swift.

LITERATUS
Lit`e*ra"tus, n.; pl. Literati. Etym: [L. litteratus, literatus.]

Defn: A learned man; a man acquainted with literature; -- chiefly
used in the plural.
Now we are to consider that our bright ideal of a literatus may
chance to be maimed. De Quincey.

-LITH; -LITE
-lith, -lite.

Defn: Combining forms fr. Gr. li`qos a stone; -- used chiefly in
naming minerals and rocks.

LITH
Lith, obs.

Defn: 3d pers. sing. pres. of Lie, to recline, for lieth. Chaucer.

LITH
Lith, n. Etym: [AS. li.]

Defn: A joint or limb; a division; a member; a part formed by growth,
and articulated to, or symmetrical with, other parts. Chaucer.

LITHAEMIA
Li*thæ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A condition in which uric (lithic) acid is present in the
blood.

LITHAGOGUE
Lith"a*gogue, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine having, or supposed to have, the power of expelling
calculous matter with the urine. Hooper.

LITHARGE
Lith"arge, n. Etym: [OE. litarge, F. litharge, L. lithargyrus, Gr.
(Chem.)

Defn: Lead monoxide; a yellowish red substance, obtained as an
amorphous powder, or crystallized in fine scales, by heating lead
moderately in a current of air or by calcining lead nitrate or
carbonate. It is used in making flint glass, in glazing earthenware,
in making red lead minium, etc. Called also massicot.

LITHARGYRUM
Li*thar"gy*rum, n. Etym: [NL. See Litharge.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: Crystallized litharge, obtained by fusion in the form of fine
yellow scales.

LITHATE
Lith"ate, n. (Old Med. Chem.)

Defn: A salt of lithic or uric acid; a urate. [Obs.] [Written also
lithiate.]

LITHE
Lithe, v. i. & i. Etym: [Icel Listen.]

Defn: To listen or listen to; to hearken to. [Obs.] P. Plowman.

LITHE
Lithe, a. Etym: [AS. lind, gelind, OHG. lindi, Icel. linr, L. lenis
soft, mild, lentus flexible, and AS. linnan to yield. Cf. Lenient.]

1. Mild; calm; as, lithe weather. [Obs.]

2. Capable of being easily bent; pliant; flexible; limber; as, the
elephant's lithe proboscis. Milton.

LITHE
Lithe, v. t. Etym: [AS. Lithe, a.]

Defn: To smooth; to soften; to palliate. [Obs.]

LITHELY
Lithe"ly, adv.

Defn: In a lithe, pliant, or flexible manner.

LITHENESS
Lithe"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being lithe; flexibility; limberness.

LITHER
Li"ther, a. Etym: [AS.

Defn: Bad; wicked; false; worthless; slothful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Not lither in business, fervent in spirit. Bp. Woolton.

Note: Professor Skeat thinks " the lither sky" as found in
Shakespeare's Henry VI. ((Part I. IY. YII., 21) means the stagnant or
pestilential sky.
 -- Li"ther*ly, adv. [Obs.].
 -- Li"ther*ness, n. [Obs.]

LITHERLY
Li"ther*ly, a.

Defn: Crafty; cunning; mischievous; wicked; treacherous;
lazy.[Archaic]
He [the dwarf] was waspish, arch, and litherly. Sir W. Scott.

LITHESOME
Lithe"some, a. Etym: [See Lithe, a., and cf. Lissom.]

Defn: Pliant; limber; flexible; supple; nimble; lissom.
 -- Lithe"some*ness, n.

LITHIA
Lith"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: The oxide of lithium; a strong alkaline caustic similar to
potash and soda, but weaker. See Lithium. Lithia emerald. See
Hiddenite.

LITHIASIS
Li*thi"a*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The formation of stony concretions or calculi in any part of
the body, especially in the bladder and urinary passages. Dunglison.

LITHIC
Lith"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. lithique.]

1. Of or pertaining to stone; as, lithic architecture.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to the formation of uric-acid concretions (stone) in
the bladder and other parts of the body; as, lithic diathesis. LIthic
acid (Old Med. Chem.), uric acid. See Uric acid, under Uric.

LITHIC
Lith"ic, n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine which tends to prevent stone in the bladder.

LITHIC
Lith"ic, a. Etym: [From Lithium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to or denoting lithium or some of its compounds.
Frankland.

LITHIOPHILITE
Lith`i*oph"i*lite, n. Etym: [Lithium + Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A phosphate of manganese and lithium; a variety of triphylite.

LITHIUM
Lith"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A metallic element of the alkaline group, occurring in several
minerals, as petalite, spodumene, lepidolite, triphylite, etc., and
otherwise widely disseminated, though in small quantities.

Note: When isolated it is a soft, silver white metal, tarnishing and
oxidizing very rapidly in the air. It is the lightest solid element
known, specific gravity being 0.59. Symbol Li. Atomic weight 7.0 So
called from having been discovered in a mineral.

LITHO
Lith"o

Defn: A combining form from Gr. stone.

LITHOBILIC
Lith`o*bil"ic, a. Etym: [Litho + bile.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to or designating an organic acid of the tartaric
acid series, distinct from lithofellic acid, but, like it, obtained
from certain bile products, as bezoar stones.

LITHOCARP
Lith"o*carp, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. lithocarpe.] (Paleon.)

Defn: Fossil fruit; a fruit petrified; a carpolite.

LITHOCHROMATICS
Lith`o*chro*mat"ics, n.

Defn: See Lithochromics.

LITHOCHROMICS
Lith`o*chro"mics, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr.

Defn: The art of printing colored pictures on canvas from oil
paintings on stone.

LITHOCLAST
Lith"o*clast, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for crushing stones in the bladder.

LITHOCYST
Lith"o*cyst, n. Etym: [Litho- + cyst.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sac containing small, calcareous concretions (otoliths). They
are found in many Medusæ, and other invertebrates, and are supposed
to be auditory organs.

LITHODOME
Lith"o*dome, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. lithodome.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of bivalves, which form holes in
limestone, in which they live; esp., any species of the genus
Lithodomus.

LITHODOMOUS
Li*thod"o*mous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, Lithodomus; lithophagous.

LITHODOMUS
Li*thod"o*mus, n. Etym: [NL. See Lithodome.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of elongated bivalve shells, allied to the mussels, and
remarkable for their ability to bore holes for shelter, in solid
limestone, shells, etc. Called also Lithophagus.

Note: These holes are at first very small and shallow, but are
enlarged with the growth of the shell, sometimes becoming two or
three inches deep and nearly an inch diameter.

LITHOFELLIC
Lith"o*fel"lic, a. Etym: [Litho- + L. fel, fellis, gall.] (Physiol.
Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a crystalline, organic acid,
resembling cholic acid, found in the biliary intestinal concretions
(bezoar stones) common in certain species of antelope.

LITHOFRACTEUR
Lith`o*frac"teur, n. Etym: [F., fr. frangere, fractum, to break.]

Defn: An explosive compound of nitroglycerin. See Nitroglycerin.

LITHOGENESY
Lith`o*gen"e*sy, n. Etym: [Litho- Gr. lithogénésie. See Genesis.]

Defn: The doctrine or science of the origin of the minerals composing
the globe.

LITHOGENOUS
Li*thog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Litho- + -genous.]

Defn: Stone-producing; -- said of polyps which form coral.

LITHOGLYPH
Lith"o*glyph, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An engraving on a gem.

LITHOGLYPHER
Li*thog"ly*pher, n.

Defn: One who curs or engraves precious stones.

LITHOGLYPHIC
Lith`o*glyph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the art of cutting and engraving precious
stones.

LITHOGLYPTICS
Lith`o*glyp"tics, n.

Defn: The art of cutting and engraving gems.

LITHOGRAPH
Lith"o*graph, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lithographed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lithographing.] Etym: [Litho- + -graph: cf. F. lithographier.]

Defn: To trace on stone by the process of lithography so as to
transfer the design to paper by printing; as, to lithograph a design;
to lithograph a painting. See Lithography.

LITHOGRAPH
Lith"o*graph, n.

Defn: A print made by lithography.

LITHOGRAPHER
Li*thog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who lithographs; one who practices lithography.

LITHOGRAPHIC; LITHOGRAPHICAL
Lith`o*graph"ic, Lith`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
lithographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to lithography; made by lithography; as, the
lithographic art; a lithographic picture. Lithographic limestone
(Min.), a compact, fine-grained limestone, obtained largely from the
Lias and Oölite, esp. of Bavaria, and extensively used in
lithography.
 -- Lith`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

LITHOGRAPHY
Li*thog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lithographie.]

Defn: The art or process of putting designs or writing, with a greasy
material, on stone, and of producing printed impressions therefrom.
The process depends, in the main, upon the antipathy between grease
and water, which prevents a printing ink containing oil from adhering
to wetted parts of the stone not covered by the design. See
Lithographic limestone, under Lithographic.

LITHOID; LITHOIDAL
Lith"oid Li*thoid"al, a. Etym: [Litho- + -oid: cf. F. lithoïde.]

Defn: Like a stone; having a stony structure.

LITHOLATRY
Li*thol"a*try, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr.

Defn: The worship of a stone or stones.

LITHOLOGIC; LITHOLOGICAL
Lith`o*log"ic, Lith`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lithologique.]

1. (Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the character of a rock, as derived from
the nature and mode of aggregation of its mineral contents.

2. Of or pertaining to lithology.

LITHOLOGICALLY
Lith`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: From a lithological point of view; as, to consider a stratum
lithologically.

LITHOLOGIST
Li*thol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is skilled in lithology.

LITHOLOGY
Li*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Litho- + -logy: cf. F. lithologie.]

1. The science which treats of rocks, as regards their mineral
constitution and classification, and their mode of occurrence in
nature.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A treatise on stones found in the body.

LITHOMANCY
Lith"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Litho- + -mancy: cf. F. lithomancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of stones.

LITHOMARGE
Lith"o*marge, n. Etym: [Litho- + L. marga marl.]

Defn: A clay of a fine smooth texture, and very sectile.

LITHONTHRIPTIC; LITHONTHRYPTIC
Lith`on*thrip"tic, Lith`on*thryp"tic, a. & n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr.

Defn: Same as Lithontriptic.

LITHONTRIPTIC
Lith`on*trip"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. lithontriptique.] (Med.)

Defn: Having the quality of, or used for, dissolving or destroying
stone in the bladder or kidneys; as, lithontriptic forcéps.
 -- n.

Defn: A lithontriptic remedy or agent, as distilled water.

LITHONTRIPTIST
Lith"on*trip"tist, n.

Defn: Same as Lithotriptist.

LITHONTRIPTOR
Lith"on*trip`tor, n. (Surg.)

Defn: See Lithotriptor.

LITHOPHAGOUS
Li*thoph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) Eating or swallowing stones or gravel, as the ostrich.
(b) Eating or destroying stone; -- applied to various animals which
make burrows in stone, as many bivalve mollusks, certain sponges,
annelids, and sea urchins. See Lithodomus.

LITHOPHANE
Lith`o*phane, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr.

Defn: Porcelain impressed with figures which are made distinct by
transmitted light, -- as when hung in a window, or used as a lamp
shade.

LITHOPHOSPHOR
Lith"o*phos`phor, n. Etym: [Litho- + phosphor.]

Defn: A stone that becomes phosphoric by heat.

LITHOPHOSPHORIC
Lith`o*phos*phor"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to lithophosphor; becoming phosphoric by heat.

LITHOPHOTOGRAPHY
Lith`o*pho*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Litho- + photography.]

Defn: Same as Photolithography.

LITHOPHYLL
Lith"o*phyll, n. Etym: [Gr. lithophylle.]

Defn: A fossil leaf or impression of a leaf.

LITHOPHYSE
Lith"o*physe, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A spherulitic cavity often with concentric chambers, observed
in some volcanic rocks, as in rhyolitic lavas. It is supposed to be
produced by expanding gas, whence the name.

LITHOPHYTE
Lith"o*phyte, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. lithophyte.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hard, or stony, plantlike organism, as the gorgonians,
corals, and corallines, esp. those gorgonians having a calcareous
axis. All the lithophytes except the corallines are animals.

LITHOPHYTIC
Lith`o*phyt"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to lithophytes.

LITHOPHYTOUS
Li*thoph"y*tous, a.

Defn: Lithophytic.

LITHOSIAN
Li*tho"sian, n. Etym: [From NL. Lithosia, the typical genus, fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of various species of moths belonging to the family
Lithosidæ. Many of them are beautifully colored.

LITHOSPHERE
Lith"o*sphere, n.  [Litho- + sphere.] (Phys. Geog.)
 (a) The solid earth as distinguished from its fluid envelopes, the
hydrosphere and atmosphere.
 (b) The outer part of the solid earth, the portion undergoing change
through the gradual transfer of material by volcanic eruption, the
circulation of underground water, and the process of erosion and
deposition. It is, therefore, regarded as a third mobile envelope
comparable with the hydrosphere and atmosphere.

LITHOTINT
Lith"o*tint, n. Etym: [Litho- + tint.]

1. A kind of lithography by which the effect of a tinted drawing is
produced, as if made with India ink.

2. A picture produced by this process.

LITHOTOME
Lith"o*tome, n. Etym: [Gr. lithotome.]

1. A stone so formed by nature as to appear as if cut by art.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument used for cutting the bladder in operations for
the stone.

LITHOTOMIC; LITHOTOMICAL
Lith`o*tom"ic, Lith`o*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. lithotomique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or performed by, lithotomy.

LITHOTOMIST
Li*thot"o*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lithotomiste.]

Defn: One who performs the operation of cutting for stone in the
bladder, or one who is skilled in the operation.

LITHOTOMY
Li*thot"o*my, n. Etym: [L. lithotomia, Gr. lithotomie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation, art, or practice of cutting for stone in the
bladder.

LITHOTRIPSY
Lith"o*trip`sy, n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr. lithotripsie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of crushing a stone in the bladder with an
instrument called lithotriptor or lithotrite; lithotrity.

LITHOTRIPTIC
Lith`o*trip"tic, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Lithontriptic.

LITHOTRIPTIST
Lith"o*trip`tist, n.

Defn: One skilled in breaking and extracting stone in the bladder.

LITHOTRIPTOR
Lith"o*trip`tor, n. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for triturating the stone in the bladder; a
lithotrite.

LITHOTRITE; LITHOTRITOR
Lith"o*trite, Lith"o*tri"tor,Etym: [See Lithotrity.] (Surg.)

Defn: A lithotriptor.

LITHOTRITIST
Li*thot"ri*tist, n.

Defn: A lithotriptist.

LITHOTRITY
Li*thot"ri*ty, n. Etym: [Litho- + L. terere, tritum, to rub, grind.]
(Surg.)

Defn: The operation of breaking a stone in the bladder into small
pieces capable of being voided.

LITHOTYPE
Lith"o*type, n.

Defn: A kind of stereotype plate made by lithotypy; also, that which
in printed from it. See Lithotypy.

LITHOTYPE
Lith"o*type, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lithotyped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Lithotyping.]

Defn: To prepare for printing with plates made by the process of
lithotypy. See Lithotypy.

LITHOTYPIC
Lith`o*typ"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or produced by, lithotypy.

LITHOTYPY
Li*thot"y*py, n. Etym: [Litho- + -typy.]

Defn: The art or process of making a kind of hard, stereotypeplate,
by pressing into a mold, taken from a page of type or other matter, a
composition of gum shell-lac and sand of a fine quality, together
with a little tar and linseed oil, all in a heated state.

LITHOXYL
Li*thox`yl, n. Etym: [Written also lithoxyle.] Etym: [Litho- + Gr.
lithoxyle.]

Defn: Petrified wood. [Obs.]

LITHUANIAN
Lith`u*a"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lithuania (formerly a principality united
with Poland, but now Russian and Prussian territory).

LITHUANIAN
Lith`u*a"ni*an, n.

Defn: A native, or one of the people, of Lithuania; also, the
language of the Lithuanian people.

LITHY
Lith"y a. Etym: [See Lithe.]

Defn: Easily bent; pliable. Lithy tree (Bot.), a European shrub
(Viburnum Lantana); -- so named from its tough and flexible stem.

LITIGABLE
Lit"i*ga*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be litigated.

LITIGANT
Lit"i*gant, a. Etym: [L. litigans, -antis, p. pr. of litigare: cf. F.
litigant. See Litigate.]

Defn: Disposed to litigate; contending in law; engaged in a lawsuit;
as, the parties litigant. Ayliffe.

LITIGANT
Lit"i*gant, n.

Defn: A person engaged in a lawsuit.

LITIGATE
Lit"i*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Litigated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Litigating.] Etym: [See Litigation.]

Defn: To make the subject of a lawsuit; to contest in law; to
prosecute or defend by pleadings, exhibition of evidence, and
judicial debate in a court; as, to litigate a cause.

LITIGATE
Lit"i*gate, v. i.

Defn: To carry on a suit by judicial process.

LITIGATION
Lit`i*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. litigatio, fr. litigare to dispute,
litigate; lis, litis, dispute, lawsuit (OL. stlis) + agere to carry
on. See Agent.]

Defn: The act or process of litigating; a suit at law; a judicial
contest.

LITIGATOR
Lit"i*ga`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who litigates.

LITIGIOUS
Li*ti"gious, a. Etym: [L. litigiosus, fr. litigium dispute, quarrel,
fr. litigare: cf. F. litigieux. See Litigation.]

1. Inclined to judicial contest; given to the practice of contending
in law; guarrelsome; contentious; fond of litigation. " A
pettifogging attorney or a litigious client." Macaulay.
Soldiers find wars, and lawyers find out still Litigious men, who
guarrels move. Donne.

2. Subject to contention; disputable; controvertible; debatable;
doubtful; precarious. Shak.
No fences, parted fields, nor marks, nor bounds, Distinguished acres
of litigious grounds. Dryden.

3. Of or pertaining to legal disputes.
Nor brothers cite to the litigious bar. Young.

LITIGIOUSLY
Li*ti"gious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a litigious manner.

LITIGIOUSNESS
Li*ti"gious*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being litigious; disposition to engage in or carry
on lawsuits.

LITMUS
Lit"mus, n. Etym: [D. lakmoes; lak lacker + moes a thick preparation
of fruit, pap, prob. akin to E. meat: cf. G. lackmus. See Lac a
resinous substance.] (Chem.)

Defn: A dyestuff extracted from certain lichens (Roccella tinctoria,
Lecanora tartarea, etc.), as a blue amorphous mass which consists of
a compound of the alkaline carbonates with certain coloring matters
related to orcin and orcein.

Note: Litmus is used as a dye, and being turned red by acids and
restored to its blue color by alkalies, is a common indicator or test
for acidity and alkalinity. Litmus paper (Chem.), unsized paper
saturated with blue or red litmus, -- used in testing for acids or
alkalies.

LITOTES
Li"to*tes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A diminution or softening of statement for the sake of avoiding
censure or increasing the effect by contrast with the moderation
shown in the form of expression; as, " a citizen of no mean city,"
that is, of an illustrious city.

LITRANETER
Li*tran"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. li`tra + -meter. See Liter]

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity of liquids.

LITRE
Li"tre, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Same as Liter.

LITTER
Lit"ter, n. Etym: [F. litière, LL. lectaria, fr. L. lectus couch,
bed. See Lie to be prostrated, and cf. Coverlet.]

1. A bed or stretcher so arranged that a person, esp. a sick or
wounded person, may be easily carried in or upon it.
There is a litter ready; lay him in 't. Shak.

2. Straw, hay, etc., scattered on a floor, as bedding for animals to
rest on; also, a covering of straw for plants.
To crouch in litter of your stable planks. Shak.
Take off the litter from your kernel beds. Evelyn.

3. Things lying scattered about in a manner indicating slovenliness;
scattered rubbish.
Strephon, who found the room was void. Stole in, and took a strict
survey Of all the litter as it lay. Swift.

4. Disorder or untidiness resulting from scattered rubbish, or from
thongs lying about uncared for; as, a room in a state of litter.

5. The young brought forth at one time, by a sow or other multiparous
animal, taken collectively. Also Fig.
A wolf came to a sow, and very kindly offered to take care of her
litter. D. Estrange.
Reflect upon numerous litter of strange, senseless opinions that
crawl about the world. South.

LITTER
Lit"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Littered; p. pr. & vb. n. Littering.]

1. To supply with litter, as cattle; to cover with litter, as the
floor of a stall.
Tell them how they litter their jades. Bp. Hacke
For his ease, well littered was the floor. Dryden.

2. To put into a confused or disordered condition; to strew with
scattered articles; as, to litter a room.
The room with volumes littered round. Swift.

3. To give birth to; to bear; -- said of brutes, esp. those which
produce more than one at a birth, and also of human beings, in
abhorrence or contempt.
We might conceive that dogs were created blind, because we observe
they were littered so with us. Sir T. Browne.
The son that she did litter here, A freckled whelp hagborn. Shak.

LITTER
Lit"ter, v. i.

1. To be supplied with litter as bedding; to sleep or make one's bed
in litter. [R.]
The inn Where he and his horse littered. Habington.

2. To produce a litter.
A desert . . . where the she-wolf still littered. Macaulay.

LITTERATEUR
Lit`te`ra`teur", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: One who occupies himself with literature; a literary man; a
literatus. " Befriended by one kind-hearted littérateur after
another." C. Kingsley.

LITTERY
Lit"ter*y, a.

Defn: Covered or encumbered with litter; consisting of or
constituting litter.

LITTLE
Lit"tle, a. [The regular comparative of this word is wanting, its
place being supplied by less, or, rarely, lesser. See Lesser. For the
superlative least is used, the regular form, littlest, occurring very
rarely, except in some of the English provinces, and occasionally in
colloquial language. " Where love is great, the littlest doubts are
fear." Shak.] Etym: [OE. litel, lutel, AS. l, litel, l; akin to OS.
littil, D. luttel, LG. lütt, OHG. luzzil, MHG. lützel; and perh. to
AS. lytig deceitful, lot deceit, Goth. liuts deceitful, lut to
deceive; cf. also Icel. litill little, Sw. liten, Dan. liden, lille,
Goth. leitils, which appear to have a different root vowel.]

1. Small in size or extent; not big; diminutive; -- opposed to big or
large; as, a little body; a little animal; a little piece of ground;
a little hill; a little distance; a little child.
He sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the press,
because he was little of stature. Luke xix. 3.

2. Short in duration; brief; as, a little sleep.
Best him enough: after a little time, I'll beat him too. Shak.

3. Small in quantity or amount; not much; as, a little food; a little
air or water.
Conceited of their little wisdoms, and doting upon their own fancies.
Barrow.

4. Small in dignity, power, or importance; not great; insignificant;
contemptible.
When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head
of the tribes I Sam. xv. 17.

5. Small in force or efficiency; not strong; weak; slight;
inconsiderable; as, little attention or exertion;little effort;
little care or diligence.
By sad experiment I know How little weight my words with thee can
find. Milton.

6. Small in extent of views or sympathies; narrow; shallow;
contracted; mean; illiberal; ungenerous.
The long-necked geese of the world that are ever hissing dispraise,
Because their natures are little. Tennyson.
Little chief. (Zoöl.) See Chief hare.
 -- Little finger, the fourth and smallest finger of the hand.
 -- Little go (Eng. Universities), a public examination about the
middle of the course, which as less strict and important than the
final one; -- called also smalls. Cf. Great go, under Great.
Thackeray.
 -- Little hours (R. C. Ch.), the offices of prime, tierce, sext, and
nones. Vespers and compline are sometimes included.
 -- Little ones, young children.
The men, and the women, and the little ones. Deut. ii. 34.