

MARMALET
Mar"ma*let`, n.

Defn: See Marmalade. [Obs.]

MARMATITE
Mar"ma*tite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. marmatite.] (Min.)

Defn: A ferruginous variety of shalerite or zinc blende, nearly black
in color.

MARMOLITE
Mar"mo*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A thin, laminated variety of serpentine, usually of a pale
green color.

MARMORACEOUS
Mar`mo*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [L. marmor marble. See Marble.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, marble.

MARMORATE; MARMORATED
Mar"mo*rate, Mar"mo*ra`ted, a. Etym: [L. marmoratus, p. p. of
marmorate to overlay with marble, fr. marmor marble.]

Defn: Variegated like marble; covered or overlaid with marble. [R.]

MARMORATION
Mar`mo*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. marmoratio.]

Defn: A covering or incrusting with marble; a casing of marble; a
variegating so as to resemble marble. [R.]

MARMORATUM OPUS
Mar`mo*ra`tum o"pus. Etym: [L. See Marmorate, and Opus.] (Arch.)

Defn: A kind of hard finish for plasterwork, made of plaster of Paris
and marble dust, and capable of taking a high polish.

MARMOREAL; MARMOREAN
Mar*mo"re*al, Mar*mo"re*an, a. Etym: [L. marmoreus, fr. marmor
marble: cf. F. marmoréen. See Marble.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, marble; made of marble.

MARMOROSIS
Mar`mo*ro"sis, n. Etym: [NL.] (Geol.)

Defn: The metamorphism of limestone, that is, its conversion into
marble. Geikie.

MARMOSE
Mar"mose`, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of small opossum (Didelphus murina) ranging from
Mexico to Brazil.

MARMOSET
Mar"mo*set`, n. Etym: [F. marmouset a grotesque figure, an ugly
little boy, prob. fr. LL. marmoretum, fr. L. marmor marble. Perhaps
confused with marmot. See Marble.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small South American monkeys of
the genera Hapale and Midas, family Hapalidæ. They have long soft
fur, and a hairy, nonprehensile tail. They are often kept as pets.
Called also squirrel monkey.

MARMOT
Mar"mot, n. Etym: [It. marmotta, marmotto, prob. fr. L. mus montanus,
or mus montis, lit., mountain mouse or rat. See Mountain, and Mouse.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any rodent of the genus Arctomys. The common European marmot
(A. marmotta) is about the size of a rabbit, and inhabits the higher
regions of the Alps and Pyrenees. The bobac is another European
species. The common American species (A. monax) is the woodchuck.

2. Any one of several species of ground squirrels or gophers of the
genus Spermophilus; also, the prairie dog. Marmot squirrel (Zoöl.), a
ground squirrel or spermophile.
 -- Prairie marmot. See Prairie dog.

MARMOTTES OIL
Mar"mottes oil`

Defn: . A fine oil obtained from the kernel of Prunus brigantiaca. It
is used instead of olive or almond oil. De Colange.

MARMOZET
Mar"mo*zet`, n.

Defn: See Marmoset.

MARONE
Ma*rone", n.

Defn: See Maroon, the color.

MARONITE
Mar"o*nite, n.; pl. Maronites (. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a body of nominal Christians, who speak the Arabic
language, and reside on Mount Lebanon and in different parts of
Syria. They take their name from one Maron of the 6th century.

MAROON
Ma*roon", n. [Written also marroon.] Etym: [F. marron, abbrev. fr.
Sp. cimarron wild, unruly, from cima the summit of a mountain; hence,
negro cimarron a runaway negro that lives in the mountains.]

Defn: In the West Indies and Guiana, a fugitive slave, or a free
negro, living in the mountains.

MAROON
Ma*roon", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marooned; p. pr. & vb. n. Marooning.]
Etym: [See Maroon a fugitive slave.]

Defn: To put (a person) ashore on a desolate island or coast and
leave him to his fate. Marooning party, a social excursion party that
sojourns several days on the shore or in some retired place; a
prolonged picnic. [Southern U. S.] Bartlett.

MAROON
Ma*roon", a. Etym: [F. marron chestnut-colored, fr. marron a large
French chestnut, It. marrone; cf. LGr. Marron.]

Defn: Having the color called maroon. See 4th Maroon. Maroon lake,
lake prepared from madder, and distinguished for its transparency and
the depth and durability of its color.

MAROON
Ma*roon", n.

1. A brownish or dull red of any description, esp. of a scarlet cast
rather than approaching crimson or purple.

2. An explosive shell. See Marron, 3.

MARPLOT
Mar"plot`, n.

Defn: One who, by his officious

MARQUE
Marque, n. Etym: [F. marque, in lettre de marque letter of marque, a
commission with which the commandant of every armed vessel was
obliged to be provided, under penalty of being considered a pirate or
corsair; marque here prob. meaning, border, boundary (the letter of
marque being a permission to go beyond the border), and of German
origin. See March border.] (Law)

Defn: A license to pass the limits of a jurisdiction, or boundary of
a country, for the purpose of making reprisals. Letters of marque,
Letters of marque and reprisal, a license or extraordinary commission
granted by a government to a private person to fit out a privateer or
armed ship to cruise at sea and make prize of the enemy's ships and
merchandise. The ship so commissioned is sometimes called a letter of
marque.

MARQUEE
Mar*quee", n. Etym: [F. marquise, misunderstood as a plural; prob.
orig., tent of the marchioness. See Marquis.]

Defn: A large field tent; esp., one adapted to the use of an officer
of high rank. [Written also markee.]

MARQUESS
Mar"quess, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. marques. See Marquis.]

Defn: A marquis. Lady marquess, a marchioness. [Obs.] Shak.

MARQUETRY
Mar"quet*ry, n. Etym: [F. marqueterie, from marqueter to checker,
inlay, fr. marque mark, sign; of German origin. See Mark a sign.]

Defn: Inlaid work; work inlaid with pieces of wood, shells, ivory,
and the like, of several colors.

MARQUIS
Mar"quis, n. Etym: [F. marquis, OF. markis, marchis, LL. marchensis;
of German origin; cf. G. mark bound, border, march, OHG. marcha. See
March border, and cf. Marchioness, Marquee, Marquess.]

Defn: A nobleman in England, France, and Germany, of a rank next
below that of duke. Originally, the marquis was an officer whose duty
was to guard the marches or frontiers of the kingdom. The office has
ceased, and the name is now a mere title conferred by patent.

MARQUISATE
Mar"quis*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. marquisat.]

Defn: The seigniory, dignity, or lordship of a marquis; the territory
governed by a marquis.

MARQUISDOM
Mar"quis*dom, n.

Defn: A marquisate. [Obs.] "Nobles of the marquisdom of Saluce."
Holinshed.

MARQUISE
Mar`quise", n. Etym: [F. See Marquis, and cf. Marquee.]

Defn: The wife of a marquis; a marchioness.

MARQUISSHIP
Mar"quis*ship, n.

Defn: A marquisate.

MARRAM
Mar"ram, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse grass found on sandy beaches (Ammophila arundinacea).
See Beach grass, under Beach.

MARRER
Mar"rer, n.

Defn: One who mars or injures.

MARRIABLE
Mar"ri*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mariable.]

Defn: Marriageable. [R.] Coleridge.

MARRIAGE
Mar"riage, n. Etym: [OE. mariage, F. mariage. See Marry, v. t.]

1. The act of marrying, or the state of being married; legal union of
a man and a woman for life, as husband and wife; wedlock; matrimony.
Marriage is honorable in all. Heb. xiii. 4.

2. The marriage vow or contract. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. A feast made on the occasion of a marriage.
The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king which made a
marriage for his son. Matt. xxii. 2.

4. Any intimate or close union. Marriage brokage. (a) The business of
bringing about marriages. (b) The payment made or demanded for the
procurement of a marriage.
 -- Marriage favors, knots of white ribbons, or bunches of white
flowers, worn at weddings.
 -- Marriage settlement (Law), a settlement of property in view, and
in consideration, of marriage.

Syn.
 -- Matrimony; wedlock; wedding; nuptials.
 -- Marriage, Matrimony, Wedlock. Marriage is properly the act which
unites the two parties, and matrimony the state into which they
enter. Marriage is, however, often used for the state as well as the
act. Wedlock is the old Anglo-Saxon term for matrimony.

MARRIAGEABILITY
Mar`riage*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being marriageable.

MARRIAGEABLE
Mar"riage*a*ble, a.

Defn: Fit for, or capable of, marriage; of an age at which marriage
is allowable.
 -- Mar"riage*a*ble*ness, n.

MARRIED
Mar"ried, a.

1. Being in the state of matrimony; wedded; as, a married man or
woman.

2. Of or pertaining to marriage; connubial; as, the married state.

MARRIER
Mar"ri*er, n.

Defn: One who marries.

MARRON
Mar*ron", n. Etym: [See Maroon, a.]

1. A large chestnut. [Obs.] Holland.

2. A chestnut color; maroon.

3. (Pyrotechny & Mil.)

Defn: A paper or pasteboard box or shell, wound about with strong
twine, filled with an explosive, and ignited with a fuse, -- used to
make a noise like a cannon. [Written also maroon.]

MARROON
Mar*roon", n. & a.

Defn: Same as 1st Maroon.

MARROT
Mar"rot, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The razor-billed auk. See Auk.
(b) The common guillemot.
(c) The puffin. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also marrott, and morrot.]

MARROW
Mar"row, n. Etym: [OE. marou, mary, maruh, AS. mearg, mearh; akin to
OS. marg, D. merg, G. Mark, OHG. marg, marag, Icel. mergr, Sw. merg,
Dan. marv, Skr. majjan; cf. Skr. majj to sink, L. mergere. sq.
root274 Cf. Merge.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The tissue which fills the cavities of most bones; the medulla.
In the larger cavities it is commonly very fatty, but in the smaller
cavities it is much less fatty, and red or reddish in color.

2. The essence; the best part.
It takes from our achievements . . . The pith and marrow of our
attribute. Shak.

3. Etym: [OE. maru, maro; -- perh. a different word; cf. Gael. maraon
together.]

Defn: One of a pair; a match; a companion; an intimate associate.
[Scot.]
Chopping and changing I can not commend, With thief or his marrow,
for fear of ill end. Tusser.
Marrow squash (Bot.), a name given to several varieties of squash,
esp. to the Boston marrow, an ovoid fruit, pointed at both ends, and
with reddish yellow flesh, and to the vegetable marrow, a variety of
an ovoid form, and having a soft texture and fine grain resembling
marrow.
 -- Spinal marrow. (Anat.) See Spinal cord, under Spinal.

MARROW
Mar"row, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marrowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Marrowing.]

Defn: To fill with, or as with, marrow of fat; to glut.

MARROWBONE
Mar"row*bone`, n.

Defn: A bone containing marrow; pl. ludicrously, knee bones or knees;
as, to get down on one's marrowbones, i. e., to kneel.

MARROWFAT
Mar"row*fat, n.

Defn: A rich but late variety of pea.

MARROWISH
Mar"row*ish, a.

Defn: Of the nature of, or like, marrow.

MARROWLESS
Mar"row*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of marrow.

MARROWY
Mar"row*y, a.

Defn: Full of marrow; pithy.

MARRUBIUM
Mar*ru"bi*um, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of bitter aromatic plants, sometimes used in medicine;
hoarhound.

MARRY
Mar"ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Married; p. pr. & vb. n. Marrying.] Etym:
[OE. marien, F. marier, L. maritare, fr. maritus husband, fr. mas,
maris, a male. See Male, and cf. Maritral.]

1. To unite in wedlock or matrimony; to perform the ceremony of
joining, as a man and a woman, for life; to constitute (a man and a
woman) husband and wife according to the laws or customs of the
place.
Tell him that he shall marry the couple himself. Gay.

2. To join according to law, (a man) to a woman as his wife, or (a
woman) to a man as her husband. See the Note to def. 4.
A woman who had been married to her twenty-fifth husband, and being
now a widow, was prohibited to marry. Evelyn.

3. To dispose of in wedlock; to give away as wife.
Mæcenas took the liberty to tell him [Augustus] that he must either
marry his daughter [Julia] to Agrippa, or take away his life. Bacon.

4. To take for husband or wife. See the Note below.

Note: We say, a man is married to or marries a woman; or, a woman is
married to or marries a man. Both of these uses are equally well
authorized; but given in marriage is said only of the woman.
They got him [the Duke of Monmouth] . . . to declare in writing, that
the last king [Charles II.] told him he was never married to his
mother. Bp. Lloyd.

5. Figuratively, to unite in the closest and most endearing relation.
Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord; for I am married unto
you. Jer. iii. 14.
To marry ropes. (Naut.) (a) To place two ropes along side of each
other so that they may be grasped and hauled on at the same time. (b)
To join two ropes end to end so that both will pass through a block.
Ham. Nav. Encyc.

MARRY
Mar"ry, v. i.

Defn: To enter into the conjugal or connubial state; to take a
husband or a wife.
I will, therefore, that the younger women marry. 1 Tim. v. 14.
Marrrying man, a man disposed to marry. [Colloq.]

MARRY
Mar"ry, interj.

Defn: Indeed ! in truth ! -- a term of asseveration said to have been
derived from the practice of swearing by the Virgin Mary. [Obs.]
Shak.

MARS
Mars, n. Etym: [L. Mars, gen. Martis, archaic Mavors, gen. Mavortis.]

1. (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: The god of war and husbandry.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the planets of the solar system, the fourth in order
from the sun, or the next beyond the earth, having a diameter of
about 4,200 miles, a period of 687 days, and a mean distance of
141,000,000 miles. It is conspicuous for the redness of its light.

3. (Alchemy)

Defn: The metallic element iron, the symbol of which was the same as
that of the planet Mars. [Archaic] Chaucer. Mars brown, a bright,
somewhat yellowish, brown.

MARSALA
Mar*sa"la, n. Etym: [It., fr. Marsala, in Sicyly.]

Defn: A kind of wine exported from Marsala in Sicily.

MARSDENIA
Mars*de"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. From W. Marsden, an English author.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the Milkweed family, mostly woody climbers
with fragrant flowers, several species of which furnish valuable
fiber, and one species (Marsdenia tinctoria) affords indigo.

MARSEILLAIS; MARSEILLAISE
Mar`sei`llais", a. m. Mar`sei`llaise", a. f.Etym: [F.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Marseilles, in France, or to its
inhabitants. Marseillaise hymn, or The Marseillaise, the national
anthem of France, popularly so called. It was composed in 1792, by
Rouget de l'Isle, an officer then stationed at Strasburg. In Paris it
was sung for the first time by the band of men who came from
Marseilles to aid in the revolution of August 10, 1792; whence the
name.

MARSEILLAIS; MARSEILLAISE
Mar`sei`llais", n. m. Mar`sei`llaise", n. f.Etym: [F.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Marseilles.

MARSEILLES
Mar*seilles", n.

Defn: A general term for certain kinds of fabrics, which are formed
of two series of threads interlacing each other, thus forming double
cloth, quilted in the loom; -- so named because first made in
Marseilles, France.

MARSH
Marsh, n. Etym: [OE. mersch, AS. mersc, fr. mere lake. See Mere pool,
and cf. Marish, Morass.]

Defn: A tract of soft wet land, commonly covered partially or wholly
with water; a fen; a swamp; a morass. [Written also marish.] Marsh
asphodel (Bot.), a plant (Nartheeium ossifragum) with linear equitant
leaves, and a raceme of small white flowers; -- called also bog
asphodel.
 -- Marsh cinquefoil (Bot.), a plant (Potentilla palustris) having
purple flowers, and found growing in marshy places; marsh five-
finger.
 -- Marsh elder. (Bot.) (a) The guelder-rose or cranberry tree
(Viburnum Opulus). (b) In the United States, a composite shrub
growing in salt marshes (Iva frutescens).
 -- Marsh five-finger. (Bot.) See Marsh cinquefoil (above).
 -- Marsh gas. (Chem.) See under Gas.
 -- Marsh grass (Bot.), a genus (Spartina) of coarse grasses growing
in marshes; -- called also cord grass. The tall S. cynosuroides is
not good for hay unless cut very young. The low S. juncea is a common
component of salt hay.
 -- Marsh harrier (Zoöl.), a European hawk or harrier (Circus
æruginosus); -- called also marsh hawk, moor hawk, moor buzzard,
puttock.
 -- Marsh hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A hawk or harrier (Circus cyaneus),
native of both America and Europe. The adults are bluish slate above,
with a white rump. Called also hen harrier, and mouse hawk. (b) The
marsh harrier.
 -- Marsh hen (Zoöl.), a rail; esp., Rallus elegans of fresh-water
marshes, and R. longirostris of salt-water marshes.
 -- Marsh mallow (Bot.), a plant of the genus Althæa ( A.
officinalis) common in marshes near the seashore, and whose root is
much used in medicine as a demulcent.
 -- Marsh marigold. (Bot.) See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Marsh pennywort (Bot.), any plant of the umbelliferous genus
Hydrocotyle; low herbs with roundish leaves, growing in wet places; -
- called also water pennywort.
 -- Marsh quail (Zoöl.), the meadow lark.
 -- Marsh rosemary (Bot.), a plant of the genus Statice (S.
Limonium), common in salt marshes. Its root is powerfully astringent,
and is sometimes used in medicine. Called also sea lavender.
 -- Marsh samphire (Bot.), a plant (Salicornia herbacea) found along
seacoasts. See Glasswort.
 -- Marsh St. John's-wort (Bot.), an American herb (Elodes Virginica)
with small opposite leaves and flesh-colored flowers.
 -- Marsh tea. (Bot.). Same as Labrador tea.
 -- Marsh trefoil. (Bot.) Same as Buckbean.
 -- Marsh wren (Zoöl.), any species of small American wrens of the
genus Cistothorus, and allied genera. They chiefly inhabit salt
marshes.

MARSHAL
Mar"shal, n. Etym: [OE. mareschal, OF. mareschal, F. maréchal, LL.
mariscalcus, from OHG. marah-scalc (G. marschall); marah horse +
scalc servant (akin to AS. scealc, Goth. skalks). F. maréchal
signifies, a marshal, and a farrier. See Mare horse, and cf.
Seneschal.]

1. Originally, an officer who had the care of horses; a groom. [Obs.]

2. An officer of high rank, charged with the arrangement of
ceremonies, the conduct of operations, or the like; as, specifically:
(a) One who goes before a prince to declare his coming and provide
entertainment; a harbinger; a pursuivant.
(b) One who regulates rank and order at a feast or any other
assembly, directs the order of procession, and the like.
(c) The chief officer of arms, whose duty it was, in ancient times,
to regulate combats in the lists. Johnson.
(d) (France) The highest military officer. In other countries of
Europe a marshal is a military officer of high rank, and called field
marshal.
(e) (Am. Law) A ministerial officer, appointed for each judicial
district of the United States, to execute the process of the courts
of the United States, and perform various duties, similar to those of
a sheriff. The name is also sometimes applied to certain police
officers of a city. Earl marshal of England, the eighth officer of
state; an honorary title, and personal, until made hereditary in the
family of the Duke of Norfolk. During a vacancy in the office of high
constable, the earl marshal has jurisdiction in the court of
chivalry. Brande & C.
 -- Earl marshal of Scotland, an officer who had command of the
cavalry under the constable. This office was held by the family of
Keith, but forfeited by rebellion in 1715.
 -- Knight marshal, or Marshal of the King's house, formerly, in
England, the marshal of the king's house, who was authorized to hear
and determine all pleas of the Crown, to punish faults committed
within the verge, etc. His court was called the Court of Marshalsea.
 -- Marshal of the Queen's Bench, formerly the title of the officer
who had the custody of the Queen's bench prison in Southwark. Mozley
& W.

MARSHAL
Mar"shal, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marshaled or Marshalled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Marshaling or Marshalling.]

1. To dispose in order; to arrange in a suitable manner; as, to
marshal troops or an army.
And marshaling the heroes of his name As, in their order, next to
light they came. Dryden.

2. To direct, guide, or lead.
Thou marshalest me the way that I was going. Shak.

3. (Her.)

Defn: To dispose in due order, as the different quarterings on an
escutcheon, or the different crests when several belong to an
achievement.

MARSHALER
Mar"shal*er, n. Etym: [Written also marshaller.]

Defn: One who marshals.

MARSHALING
Mar"shal*ing, n. Etym: [Written also marshalling.]

1. The act of arranging in due order.

2. (Her.)

Defn: The arrangement of an escutcheon to exhibit the alliances of
the owner. Marshaling of assets (Law), the arranging or ranking of
assets in due order of administration.

MARSHALSEA
Mar"shal*sea, n. Etym: [Marshal + OE. se a seat. See See a seat.]

Defn: The court or seat of a marshal; hence, the prison in Southwark,
belonging to the marshal of the king's household. [Eng.] Court of
Marshalsea, a court formerly held before the steward and marshal of
the king's house to administer justice between the king's domestic
servants. Blackstone.

MARSHALSHIP
Mar"shal*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a marshal.

MARSHBANKER; MARSEBANKER
Marsh"bank`er, Marse"bank`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The menhaden.

MARSHINESS
Marsh"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being marshy.

MARSH MARIGOLD
Marsh mar"i*gold

Defn: . (Bot.) A perennial plant of the genus Caltha (C. palustris),
growing in wet places and bearing bright yellow flowers. In the
United States it is used as a pot herb under the name of cowslip. See
Cowslip.

MARSHY
Marsh"y, a. Etym: [E. Marsh.]

1. Resembling a marsh; wet; boggy; fenny.

2. Pertaining to, or produced in, marshes; as, a marshy weed. Dryden.

MARSIPOBRANCH
Mar"si*po*branch`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Marsipobranchia.

MARSIPOBRANCHIA
Mar"si*po*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of Vertebrata, lower than fishes, characterized by
their purselike gill cavities, cartilaginous skeletons, absence of
limbs, and a suckerlike mouth destitute of jaws. It includes the
lampreys and hagfishes. See Cyclostoma, and Lamprey. Called also
Marsipobranchiata, and Marsipobranchii.

MARSUPIAL
Mar*su"pi*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. marsupial.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a pouch for carrying the immature young; of or
pertaining to the Marsupialia.

2. (Anat. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a marsupium; as, the marsupial bones.
Marsupial frog. (Zoöl.) See Nototrema.

MARSUPIAL
Mar*su"pi*al, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Marsupialia.

MARSUPIALIA
Mar*su`pi*a"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. marsupium a pouch, bag,
purse, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A subclass of Mammalia, including nearly all the mammals of
Australia and the adjacent islands, together with the opossums of
America. They differ from ordinary mammals in having the corpus
callosum very small, in being implacental, and in having their young
born while very immature. The female generally carries the young for
some time after birth in an external pouch, or marsupium. Called also
Marsupiata.

MARSUPIALIAN; MARSUPIAN
Mar*su`pi*a"li*an, Mar*su"pi*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Marsupialia.

MARSUPIATE
Mar*su"pi*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Related to or resembling the marsupials; furnished with a pouch
for the young, as the marsupials, and also some fishes and Crustacea.

MARSUPION
Mar*su"pi*on, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Same as Marsupium.

MARSUPITE
Mar"su*pite, n. Etym: [See Marsupial.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil crinoid of the genus Marsupites, resembling a purse in
form.

MARSUPIUM
Mar*su"pi*um, n.; pl. Marsupia. Etym: [L., a pouch], (Anat. & Zoöl.)
(a) The pouch, formed by a fold of the skin of the abdomen, in which
marsupials carry their young; also, a pouch for similar use in other
animals, as certain Crustacea.
(b) The pecten in the eye of birds and reptiles. See Pecten.

MART
Mart, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. market.]

1. A market.
Where has commerce such a mart . . . as London Cowper.

2. A bargain. [Obs.] Shak.

MART
Mart, v. t.

Defn: To buy or sell in, or as in, a mart. [Obs.]
To sell and mart your officer for gold To undeservers. Shak.

MART
Mart, v. t.

Defn: To traffic. [Obs.] Shak.

MART
Mart, n. Etym: [See Mars.]

1. The god Mars. [Obs.]

2. Battle; contest. [Obs.] Fairfax.

MARTAGON
Mar"ta*gon, n. Etym: [Cf. F. & Sp. martagon, It. martagone.] (Bot.)

Defn: A lily (Lilium Martagon) with purplish red flowers, found in
Europe and Asia.

MARTEL
Mar"tel, v. i. Etym: [F. marteler, fr. martel, marteau, hammer, a
dim. fr. L. martulus, marculus, dim. of marcus hammer. Cf. March to
step.]

Defn: To make a blow with, or as with, a hammer. [Obs.] Spenser.

MARTEL DE FER
Mar`tel` de fer". Etym: [OF., hammer of iron.]

Defn: A weapon resembling a hammer, often having one side of the head
pointed; -- used by horsemen in the Middle Ages to break armor.
Fairholt.

MARTELINE
Mar"te*line, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A small hammer used by marble workers and sculptors.

MARTELLO TOWER
Mar*tel"lo tow`er. Etym: [It. martello hammer. The name was orig.
given to towers erected on the coasts of Sicily and Sardinia for
protection against the pirates in the time of Charles the Fifth,
which prob. orig. contained an alarm bell to be struck with a hammer.
See Martel.] (Fort.)

Defn: A building of masonry, generally circular, usually erected on
the seacoast, with a gun on the summit mounted on a traversing
platform, so as to be fired in any direction.

Note: The English borrowed the name of the tower from Corsica in
1794.

MARTEN
Mar"ten, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird. See Martin.

MARTEN
Mar"ten, n. Etym: [From older martern, marter, martre, F. martre,
marte, LL. martures (pl.), fr. L. martes; akin to AS. mear, meard, G.
marder, OHG. mardar, Icel. mör. Cf. Foumart.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several fur-bearing carnivores of the genus Mustela,
closely allied to the sable. Among the more important species are the
European beech, or stone, marten (Mustela foina); the pine marten (M.
martes); and the American marten, or sable (M. Americana), which some
zoölogists consider only a variety of the Russian sable.

2. The fur of the marten, used for hats, muffs, etc.

MARTERN
Mar"tern, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Marten. [Obs.]

MAR-TEXT
Mar"-text`, n.

Defn: A blundering preacher.

MARTIAL
Mar"tial, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. martialis of or belonging to Mars, the
god of war. Cf. March the month.]

1. Of, pertaining to, or suited for, war; military; as, martial
music; a martial appearance. "Martial equipage." Milton.

2. Practiced in, or inclined to, war; warlike; brave.
But peaceful kings, o'er martial people set, Each other's poise and
counterbalance are. Dryden.

3. Belonging to war, or to an army and navy; -- opposed to civil; as,
martial law; a court-martial.

4. Pertaining to, or resembling, the god, or the planet, Mars. Sir T.
Browne.

5. (Old Chem. & Old Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, iron; chalybeate; as, martial
preparations. [Archaic] Martial flowers (Med.), a reddish crystalline
salt of iron; the ammonio-chloride of iron. [Obs.] -- Martial law,
the law administered by the military power of a government when it
has superseded the civil authority in time of war, or when the civil
authorities are unable to enforce the laws. It is distinguished from
military law, the latter being the code of rules for the regulation
of the army and navy alone, either in peace or in war.

Syn.
 -- Martial, Warlike. Martial refers more to war in action, its
array, its attendants, etc.; as, martial music, a martial appearance,
a martial array, courts-martial, etc. Warlike describes the feeling
or temper which leads to war, and the adjuncts of war; as, a warlike
nation, warlike indication, etc. The two words are often used without
discrimination.

MARTIALISM
Mar"tial*ism, n.

Defn: The quality of being warlike; exercises suitable for war.
[Obs.]

MARTIALIST
Mar"tial*ist, n.

Defn: A warrior. [Obs.] Fuller.

MARTIALIZE
Mar"tial*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Martialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Martializing.]

Defn: To render warlike; as, to martialize a people.

MARTIALLY
Mar"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a martial manner.

MARTIALNESS
Mar"tial*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being martial.

MARTIAN
Mar"tian, a. [L. Martius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mars, the Roman god of war, or to the
planet bearing his name; martial.

MARTIAN
Mar"tian, n.

Defn: An inhabitant of the planet Mars.  Du Maurier.

MARTIN
Mar"tin, n. (Stone Working) Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A perforated stone-faced runner for grinding.

MARTIN
Mar"tin, n. Etym: [F. martin, from the proper name Martin. Cf.
Martlet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of swallows, usually having the tail
less deeply forked than the tail of the common swallows. [Written
also marten.]

Note: The American purple martin, or bee martin (Progne subis, or
purpurea), and the European house, or window, martin (Hirundo, or
Chelidon, urbica), are the best known species. Bank martin. (a) The
bank swallow. See under Bank. (b) The fairy martin. See under Fairy.
 -- Bee martin. (a) The purple martin. (b) The kingbird.
 -- Sand martin, the bank swallow.

MARTINET
Mar"ti*net`, n. Etym: [So called from an officer of that name in the
French army under Louis XIV. Cf. Martin the bird, Martlet.]

Defn: In military language, a strict disciplinarian; in general, one
who lays stress on a rigid adherence to the details of discipline, or
to forms and fixed methods. [Hence, the word is commonly employed in
a depreciatory sense.]

MARTINET
Mar"ti*net`, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The martin.

MARTINETA
Mar`ti*ne"ta, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. martinete.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of tinamou (Calopezus elegans), having a long slender
crest.

MARTINETISM
Mar"ti*net`ism, n.

Defn: The principles or practices of a martinet; rigid adherence to
discipline, etc.

MARTINGALE; MARTINGAL
Mar"tin*gale, Mar"tin*gal, n. Etym: [F. martingale; cf. It.
martingala a sort of hose, martingale, Sp. martingala a greave,
cuish, martingale, Sp. almártaga a kind of bridle.]

1. A strap fastened to a horse's girth, passing between his fore
legs, and fastened to the bit, or now more commonly ending in two
rings, through which the reins pass. It is intended to hold down the
head of the horse, and prevent him from rearing.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A lower stay of rope or chain for the jib boom or flying jib
boom, fastened to, or reeved through, the dolphin striker. Also, the
dolphin striker itself.

3. (Gambling)

Defn: The act of doubling, at each stake, that which has been lost on
the preceding stake; also, the sum so risked; -- metaphorically
derived from the bifurcation of the martingale of a harness. [Cant]
Thackeray.

MARTINMAS
Mar"tin*mas, n. Etym: [St. Martin + mass religious service.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The feast of St. Martin, the eleventh of November; -- often
called martlemans. Martinmas summer, a period of calm, warm weather
often experienced about the time of Martinmas; Indian summer. Percy
Smith.

MARTITE
Mar"tite, n. Etym: [L. Mars, Martis, the god Mars, the alchemical
name of iron.] (Min.)

Defn: Iron sesquioxide in isometric form, probably a pseudomorph
after magnetite.

MARTLEMAS
Mar"tle*mas, n.

Defn: See Martinmas. [Obs.]

MARTLET
Mart"let, n. Etym: [F. martinet. See Martin the bird, and cf.
Martinet a disciplinarian.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European house martin.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. merlette.] (Her.)

Defn: A bird without beak or feet; -- generally assumed to represent
a martin. As a mark of cadency it denotes the fourth son.

MARTYR
Mar"tyr, n. Etym: [AS., from L. martyr, Gr. ma`rtyr, ma`rtys, prop.,
a witness; cf. Skr. smrs to remember, E. memory.]

1. One who, by his death, bears witness to the truth of the gospel;
one who is put to death for his religion; as, Stephen was the first
Christian martyr. Chaucer.
To be a martyr, signifies only to witness the truth of Christ; but
the witnessing of the truth was then so generally attended with
persecution, that martyrdom now signifies not only to witness, but to
witness by death South.

2. Hence, one who sacrifices his life, his station, or what is of
great value to him, for the sake of principle, or to sustain a cause.
Then if thou fall'st, O Cromwell, Thou fall'st a blessed martyr !
Shak.

MARTYR
Mar"tyr, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Martyred; p. pr. & vb. n. Martyring.]

1. To put to death for adhering to some belief, esp. Christianity; to
sacrifice on account of faith or profession. Bp. Pearson.

2. To persecute; to torment; to torture. Chaucer.
The lovely Amoret, whose gentle heart Thou martyrest with sorrow and
with smart. Spenser.
Racked with sciatics, martyred with the stone. Pope.

MARTYRDOM
Mar"tyr*dom, n. Etym: [Martyr + -dom.]

1. The condition of a martyr; the death of a martyr; the suffering of
death on account of adherence to the Christian faith, or to any
cause. Bacon.
I came from martyrdom unto this peace. Longfellow.

2. Affliction; torment; torture. Chaucer.

MARTYRIZATION
Mar`tyr*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: Act of martyrizing, or state of being martyrized; torture. B.
Jonson.

MARTYRIZE
Mar"tyr*ize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. martyriser, LL. martyrizare.]

Defn: To make a martyr of. Spenser.

MARTYRLY
Mar"tyr*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a martyr.

MARTYROLOGE
Mar"tyr*o*loge, n. Etym: [LL. martyrologium: cf. F. martyrologe.]

Defn: A martyrology. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

MARTYROLOGIC; MARTYROLOGICAL
Mar`tyr*o*log"ic, Mar`tyr*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to martyrology or martyrs; registering, or
registered in, a catalogue of martyrs.

MARTYROLOGIST
Mar`tyr*ol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. martyrologiste.]

Defn: A writer of martyrology; an historian of martyrs. T. Warton.

MARTYROLOGY
Mar`tyr*ol"o*gy, n.; pl. -gies. Etym: [Martyr + -logy.]

Defn: A history or account of martyrs; a register of martyrs. Bp.
Stillingfleet.

MARTYRSHIP
Mar"tyr*ship, n.

Defn: Martyrdom. [R.] Fuller.

MARVEL
Mar"vel, n. Etym: [OE. mervaile, F. merveille, fr. L. mirabilia
wonderful things, pl., fr. mirabilis wonderful, fr. mirari to wonder
or marvel at. See Admire, Smile, and cf. Miracle.]

1. That which causes wonder; a prodigy; a miracle.
I will do marvels such as have not been done. Ex. xxxiv. 10.
Nature's sweet marvel undefiled. Emerson.

2. Wonder. [R.] "Use lessens marvel." Sir W. Scott. Marvel of Peru.
(Bot.) See Four-o'clock.

MARVEL
Mar"vel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Marveled or Marvelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Marveling or Marvelling.] Etym: [OE. merveilen, OF. merveillier.]

Defn: To be struck with surprise, astonishment, or wonder; to wonder.
Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. 1 john iii. 13.

MARVEL
Mar"vel, v. t.

1. To marvel at. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. To cause to marvel, or be surprised; -- used impersonally. [Obs.]
But much now me marveleth. Rich. the Redeless.

MARVELOUS
Mar"vel*ous, a. Etym: [OE. merveillous, OF. merveillos, F.
Merveilleux. See Marvel, n.] [Written also marvellous.]

1. Exciting wonder or surprise; astonishing; wonderful.
This is the Lord's doing; it is marvelous in our eyes. Ps. cxiii. 23.

2. Partaking of the character of miracle, or superna
The marvelous fable includes whatever is supernatural, and especially
the machines of the gods. Pope.
The marvelous, that which exceeds natural power, or is preternatural;
that which is wonderful; -- opposed to the probable.

Syn.
 -- Wonderful; astonishing; surprising; strange; improbable;
incredible.
 -- Marvelous, Wonderful. We speak of a thing as wonderful when it
awakens our surprise and admiration; as marvelous when it is so much
out of the ordinary course of things as to seem nearly or quite
incredible.

MARVELOUSLY
Mar"vel*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a marvelous manner; wonderfully; strangely.

MARVELOUSNESS
Mar"vel*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being marvelous; wonderfulness;
strangeness.

MARVER
Mar"ver, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupt. fr. OE. or F. marbre marble.]
(Glass Marking)

Defn: A stone, or cast-iron plate, or former, on which hot glass is
rolled to give it shape.

MARY
Mar"y, n.

Defn: Marrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MARY
Ma"ry, interj.

Defn: See Marry. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MARY-BUD
Ma"ry-bud`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The marigold; a blossom of the marigold. Shak.

MARYOLATRY
Ma`ry*ol"a*try, n.

Defn: Mariolatry.

MARYSOLE
Ma"ry*sole, n. Etym: [Mary, the proper name + sole the fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large British fluke, or flounder (Rhombus megastoma); --
called also carter, and whiff. marchpane.

MASCAGNIN; MASCAGNITE
Mas*ca"gnin, Mas*ca"gnite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mascagnin.] (Min.)

Defn: Native sulphate of ammonia, found in volcanic districts; -- so
named from Mascagni, who discovered it.

MASCLE
Mas"cle, n. Etym: [OF. mascle, F. macle, L. macula spot, mesh of a
net, LL. macula, macla, mascla a scale of a coat of mail. See Mail
armor.] (Her.)

Defn: A lozenge voided.

MASCLED
Mas"cled, a.

Defn: Composed of, or covered with, lozenge-shaped scales; having
lozenge-shaped divisions. Mascled armor, armor composed of small
lozenge-shaped scales of metal fastened on a foundation of leather or
quilted cloth.

MASCOT; MASCOTTE
Mas"cot, Mas"cotte, n. Etym: [Through French fr. Pr. mascot a little
sorcerer or magician, mascotto witchcraft, sorcery.]

Defn: A person who is supposed to bring good luck to the household to
which he or she belongs; anything that brings good luck.

MASCULATE
Mas"cu*late, v. t. Etym: [L. masculus male, masculine.]

Defn: To make strong. [Obs.] Cockeram.

MASCULINE
Mas"cu*line, a. Etym: [L. masculinus, fr. masculus male, manly, dim.
of mas a male: cf. F. masculin. See Male masculine.]

1. Of the male sex; not female.
Thy masculine children, that is to say, thy sons. Chaucer.

2. Having the qualities of a man; suitable to, or characteristic of,
a man; virile; not feminine or effeminate; strong; robust.
That lady, after her husband's death, held the reins with a masculine
energy. Hallam.

3. Belonging to males; appropriated to, or used by, males. [R.] "A
masculine church." Fuller.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: Having the inflections of, or construed with, words pertaining
especially to male beings, as distinguished from feminine and neuter.
See Gender.
 -- Mas"cu*line*ly, adv.
 -- Mas"cu*line*ness, n.

MASCULINITY
Mas`cu*lin"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being masculine; masculineness.

MASE
Mase, n. & v.

Defn: See Maze. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MASELYN
Mas"e*lyn, n.

Defn: A drinking cup. See 1st Maslin, 2. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MASER
Ma"ser, n.

Defn: Same as Mazer.

MASH
Mash, n.

Defn: A mesh. [Obs.]

MASH
Mash, n. Etym: [Akin to G. meisch, maisch, meische, maische, mash,
wash, and prob. to AS. miscian to mix. See Mix.]

1. A mass of mixed ingredients reduced to a soft pulpy state by
beating or pressure; a mass of anything in a soft pulpy state.
Specifically (Brewing), ground or bruised malt, or meal of rye,
wheat, corn, or other grain (or a mixture of malt and meal) steeped
and stirred in hot water for making the wort.

2. A mixture of meal or bran and water fed to animals.

3. A mess; trouble. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. Mash tun, a large tub used in
making mash and wort.

MASH
Mash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mashing.] Etym:
[Akin to G. meischen, maischen, to mash, mix, and prob. to mischen,
E. mix. See 2d Mash.]

Defn: To convert into a mash; to reduce to a soft pulpy state by
beating or pressure; to bruise; to crush; as, to mash apples in a
mill, or potatoes with a pestle. Specifically (Brewing), to convert,
as malt, or malt and meal, into the mash which makes wort. Mashing
tub, a tub for making the mash in breweries and distilleries; --
called also mash tun, and mash vat.

MASHER
Mash"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, mashes; also (Brewing), a machine for
making mash.

2. A charmer of women. [Slang] London Punch.

MASHIE; MASHY
Mash"ie, Mash"y, n.; pl. Mashies (#). [Etym. uncert.]

Defn: A golf club like the iron, but with a shorter head, slightly
more lofted, used chiefly for short approaches.

MASHLIN
Mash"lin, n.

Defn: See Maslin.

MASHY
Mash"y, a.

Defn: Produced by crushing or bruising; resembling, or consisting of,
a mash.

MASK
Mask, n. Etym: [F. masque, LL. masca, mascha, mascus; cf. Sp. & Pg.
máscara, It. maschera; all fr. Ar. maskharat buffoon, fool,
pleasantry, anything ridiculous or mirthful, fr. sakhira to ridicule,
to laugh at. Cf. Masque, Masquerade.]

1. A cover, or partial cover, for the face, used for disguise or
protection; as, a dancer's mask; a fencer's mask; a ball player's
mask.

2. That which disguises; a pretext or subterfuge.

3. A festive entertainment of dancing or other diversions, where all
wear masks; a masquerade; hence, a revel; a frolic; a delusive show.
Bacon.
This thought might lead me through the world's vain mask. Milton.

4. A dramatic performance, formerly in vogue, in which the actors
wore masks and represented mythical or allegorical characters.

5. (Arch.)

Defn: A grotesque head or face, used to adorn keystones and other
prominent parts, to spout water in fountains, and the like; -- called
also mascaron.

6. (Fort.)
(a) In a permanent fortification, a redoubt which protects the
caponiere.
(b) A screen for a battery.

7. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lower lip of the larva of a dragon fly, modified so as to
form a prehensile organ. Mask house, a house for masquerades. [Obs.]

MASK
Mask, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Masked; p. pr. & vb. n. Masking.]

1. To cover, as the face, by way of concealment or defense against
injury; to conceal with a mask or visor.
They must all be masked and vizarded. Shak.

2. To disguise; to cover; to hide.
Masking the business from the common eye. Shak.

3. (Mil.)
(a) To conceal; also, to intervene in the line of.
(b) To cover or keep in check; as, to mask a body of troops or a
fortess by a superior force, while some hostile evolution is being
carried out.

MASK
Mask, v. i.

1. To take part as a masker in a masquerade. Cavendish.

2. To wear a mask; to be disguised in any way. Shak.

MASKED
Masked, a.

1. Wearing a mask or masks; characterized by masks; cincealed;
hidden.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Personate.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the anterior part of the head differing decidedly in
color from the rest of the plumage; -- said of birds. Masked ball, a
ball in which the dancers wear masks.
 -- Masked battery (Mil.), a battery so placed as not to be seen by
an enemy until it opens fire. H. L. Scott.
 -- Masked crab (Zoöl.), a European crab (Corystes cassivelaunus)
with markings on the carapace somewhat resembling a human face.
 -- Masked pig (Zoöl.), a Japanese domestic hog (Sus pliciceps). Its
face is deeply furrowed.

MASKER
Mask"er, n.

Defn: One who wears a mask; one who appears in disguise at a
masquerade.

MASKER
Mask"er, v. t.

Defn: To confuse; to stupefy. [Obs.] Holland.

MASKERY
Mask"er*y, n.

Defn: The dress or disguise of a maske [Obs.] Marston.

MASKINONGE
Mas"ki*nonge, n.

Defn: The muskellunge.

MASK SHELL
Mask" shell`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any spiral marine shell of the genus Persona, having a
curiously twisted aperture.

MASLACH
Mas"lach, n. Etym: [Ar. maslaq: cf. F. masloc.] (Med.)

Defn: An excitant containing opium, much used by the Turks.
Dunglison.

MASLIN
Mas"lin, n. Etym: [OE. missellane, misceline, miscelin, meslin, fr.
miscellane. See Miscellane.]

1. A mixture composed of different materials; especially:
(a) A mixture of metals resembling brass.
(b) A mixture of different sorts of grain, as wheat and rye. [Written
also meslin, mislin, maselyn, mastlin.]

2. A vessel made of maslin, 1 (a). [Obs.]
Mead eke in a maselyn. Chaucer.

MASLIN
Mas"lin, a.

Defn: Composed of different sorts; as, maslin bread, which is made of
rye mixed with a little wheat. [Written also meslin, mislin, etc.]

MASON
Ma"son, n. Etym: [F. ma, LL. macio, machio, mattio, mactio, marcio,
macerio; of uncertain origin.]

1. One whose occupation is to build with stone or brick; also, one
who prepares stone for building purposes.

2. A member of the fraternity of Freemasons. See Freemason. Mason bee
(Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of solitary bees of the genus
Osmia. They construct curious nests of hardened mud and sand.
 -- Mason moth (Zoöl.), any moth whose larva constructs an earthen
cocoon under the soil.
 -- Mason shell (Zoöl.), a marine univalve shell of the genus Phorus;
-- so called because it cements other shells and pebbles upon its own
shell; a carrier shell.
 -- Mason wasp (Zoöl.), any wasp that constructs its nest, or brood
cells, of hardened mud. The female fills the cells with insects or
spiders, paralyzed by a sting, and thus provides food for its larvæ

MASON
Ma"son, v. t.

Defn: To build stonework or brickwork about, under, in, over, etc.;
to construct by masons; -- with a prepositional suffix; as, to mason
up a well or terrace; to mason in a kettle or boiler.

MASONIC
Ma*son"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Freemasons or to their craft or mysteries.

MASONRY
Ma"son*ry, n. Etym: [F. maçonnerie.]

1. The art or occupation of a mason.

2. The work or performance of a mason; as, good or bad masonry;
skillful masonry.

3. That which is built by a mason; anything constructed of the
materials used by masons, such as stone, brick, tiles, or the like.
Dry masonry is applied to structures made without mortar.

4. The craft, institution, or mysteries of Freemasons; freemasonry.

MASOOLA BOAT
Ma*soo"la boat`

Defn: . A kind of boat used on the coast of Madras, India. The planks
are sewed together with strands of coir which cross over a wadding of
the same material, so that the shock on taking the beach through surf
is much reduced. [Written also masula, masulah, etc.]

MASORA
Ma*so"ra, n. Etym: [NHeb. mas tradition.]

Defn: A Jewish critical work on the text of the Hebrew Scriptures,
composed by several learned rabbis of the school of Tiberias, in the
eighth and ninth centuries. [Written also Masorah, Massora, and
Massorah.]

MASORET
Mas"o*ret, n.

Defn: A Masorite. [Written also Masorete, and Massorete.]

MASORETIC; MASORETICAL
Mas`o*ret"ic, Mas`o*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. massorétique.]

Defn: Of or relating to the Masora, or to its authors. Masoretic
points and accents, the vowel points and accents of the Hebrew text
of the Bible, of which the first mention is in the Masora.

MASORITE
Mas"o*rite, n.

Defn: One of the writers of the Masora.

MASQUE
Masque, n.

Defn: A mask; a masquerade.

MASQUERADE
Mas`quer*ade", n. Etym: [F. mascarade, fr. Sp. mascarada, or It.
mascherata. See Mask.]

1. An assembly of persons wearing masks, and amusing themselves with
dancing, conversation, or other diversions.
In courtly balls and midnight masquerades. Pope.

2. A dramatic performance by actors in masks; a mask. See 1st Mask,
4. [Obs.]

3. Acting or living under false pretenses; concealment of something
by a false or unreal show; pretentious show; disguise.
That masquerade of misrepresentation which invariably accompanied the
political eloquence of Rome. De Quincey.

4. A Spanish diversion on horseback.

MASQUERADE
Mas`quer*ade", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Masqueraded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Masquerading.]

1. To assemble in masks; to take part in a masquerade.

2. To frolic or disport in disquise; to make a pretentious show of
being what one is not.
A freak took an ass in the head, and he goes into the woods,
masquerading up and down in a lion's skin. L'Estrange.

MASQUERADE
Mas`quer*ade", v. t.

Defn: To conceal with masks; to disguise. "To masquerade vice."
Killingbeck.

MASQUERADER
Mas`quer*ad"er, n.

Defn: One who masquerades; a person wearing a mask; one disguised.

MASS
Mass, n. Etym: [OE. masse, messe, AS. mæsse. LL. missa, from L.
mittere, missum, to send, dismiss: cf. F. messe. In the ancient
churches, the public services at which the catechumens were permitted
to be present were called missa catechumenorum, ending with the
reading of the Gospel. Then they were dismissed with these words :
"Ite, missa est" [sc. ecclesia], the congregation is dismissed. After
that the sacrifice proper began. At its close the same words were
said to those who remained. So the word gave the name of Mass to the
sacrifice in the Catholic Church. See Missile, and cf. Christmas,
Lammas, Mess a dish, Missal.]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The sacrifice in the sacrament of the Eucharist, or the
consecration and oblation of the host.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The portions of the Mass usually set to music, considered as a
musical composition; -- namely, the Kyrie, the Gloria, the Credo, the
Sanctus, and the Agnus Dei, besides sometimes an Offertory and the
Benedictus. Canon of the Mass. See Canon.
 -- High Mass, Mass with incense, music, the assistance of a deacon,
subdeacon, etc.
 -- Low Mass, Mass which is said by the priest through-out, without
music.
 -- Mass bell, the sanctus bell. See Sanctus.
 -- Mass book, the missal or Roman Catholic service book.

MASS
Mass, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Massed; p. pr. & vb. n. Massing.]

Defn: To celebrate Mass. [Obs.] Hooker.

MASS
Mass, n. Etym: [OE. masse, F. masse, L. massa; akin to Gr. Macerate.]

1. A quantity of matter cohering together so as to make one body, or
an aggregation of particles or things which collectively make one
body or quantity, usually of considerable size; as, a mass of ore,
metal, sand, or water.
If it were not for these principles, the bodies of the earth,
planets, comets, sun, and all things in them, would grow cold and
freeze, and become inactive masses. Sir I. Newton.
A deep mass of continual sea is slower stirred To rage. Savile.

2. (Phar.)

Defn: A medicinal substance made into a cohesive, homogeneous lump,
of consistency suitable for making pills; as, blue mass.

3. A large quantity; a sum.
All the mass of gold that comes into Spain. Sir W. Raleigh.
He had spent a huge mass of treasure. Sir J. Davies.

4. Bulk; magnitude; body; size.
This army of such mass and charge. Shak.

5. The principal part; the main body.
Night closed upon the pursuit, and aided the mass of the fugitives in
their escape. Jowett (Thucyd.).

6. (Physics)

Defn: The quantity of matter which a body contains, irrespective of
its bulk or volume.

Note: Mass and weight are often used, in a general way, as
interchangeable terms, since the weight of a body is proportional to
its mass (under the same or equal gravitative forces), and the mass
is usually ascertained from the weight. Yet the two ideas, mass and
weight, are quite distinct. Mass is the quantity of matter in a body;
weight is the comparative force with which it tends towards the
center of the earth. A mass of sugar and a mass of lead are assumed
to be equal when they show an equal weight by balancing each other in
the scales. Blue mass. See under Blue.
 -- Mass center (Geom.), the center of gravity of a triangle.
 -- Mass copper, native copper in a large mass.
 -- Mass meeting, a large or general assembly of people, usually a
meeting having some relation to politics.
 -- The masses, the great body of the people, as contrasted with the
higher classes; the populace.

MASS
Mass, v. t.

Defn: To form or collect into a mass; to form into a collective body;
to bring together into masses; to assemble.
But mass them together and they are terrible indeed. Coleridge.

MASSACRE
Mas"sa*cre, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. mazacrium; cf. Prov. G. metzgern,
metzgen, to kill cattle, G. metzger a butcher, and LG. matsken to
cut, hew, OHG. meizan to cut, Goth. máitan.]

1. The killing of a considerable number of human beings under
circumstances of atrocity or cruelty, or contrary to the usages of
civilized people; as, the massacre on St. Bartholomew's Day.

2. Murder. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- Massacre, Butchery, Carnage. Massacre denotes the promiscuous
slaughter of many who can not make resistance, or much resistance.
Butchery refers to cold-blooded cruelty in the killing of men as if
they were brute beasts. Carnage points to slaughter as producing the
heaped-up bodies of the slain.
I'll find a day to massacre them all, And raze their faction and
their family. Shak.
If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds, Brhold this pattern of thy
butcheries. Shak.
Such a scent I draw Of carnage, prey innumerable ! Milton.

MASSACRE
Mas"sa*cre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Massacred; p. pr. & vb. n.
Massacring.] Etym: [Cf. F. massacrer. See Massacre, n.]

Defn: To kill in considerable numbers where much resistance can not
be made; to kill with indiscriminate violence, without necessity, and
contrary to the usages of nations; to butcher; to slaughter; --
limited to the killing of human beings.
If James should be pleased to massacre them all, as Maximian had
massacred the Theban legion. Macaulay.

MASSACRER
Mas"sa*crer, n.

Defn: One who massacres. [R.]

MASSAGE
Mas"sage, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A rubbing or kneading of the body, especially when performed as
a hygienic or remedial measure.

MASSAGIST
Mas"sag*ist, n.

Defn: One who practices massage; a masseur or masseuse.

MASSASAUGA
Mas`sa*sau"ga, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The black rattlesnake (Crotalus, or Caudisona, tergemina),
found in the Mississippi Valley.

MASSE; MASSE SHOT
Massé, or Masse shot, n. (Billiards)

Defn: A stroke made with the cue held vertically.

MASSER
Mass"er, n.

Defn: A priest who celebrates Mass. [R.] Bale.

MASSETER
Mas"se*ter, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. masséter.] (Anat.)

Defn: The large muscle which raises the under jaw, and assists in
mastication.

MASSETERIC
Mas`se*ter"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the masseter.

MASSETERINE
Mas"se*ter`ine, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Masseteric.

MASSEUR; MASSEUSE
Mas`seur", n. m., Mas`seuse", n. f.,} Etym: [F., or formed in
imitation of French. See Massage.] (Med.)

Defn: One who performs massage.

MASSICOT
Mas"si*cot, n. Etym: [F. massicot; E. masticot is a corruption.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Lead protoxide, PbO, obtained as a yellow amorphous powder, the
fused and crystalline form of which is called litharge; lead ocher.
It is used as a pigment.

Note: Massicot is sometimes used by painters, and also as a drier in
the composition of ointments and plasters.

MASSINESS
Mass"i*ness, n. Etym: [From Massy.]

Defn: The state or quality of being massy; ponderousness.

MASSIVE
Mass"ive, a. Etym: [F. massif.]

1. Forming, or consisting of, a large mass; compacted; weighty;
heavy; massy. "Massive armor." Dr. H. More.

2. (Min.)

Defn: In mass; not necessarily without a crystalline structure, but
having no regular form; as, a mineral occurs massive. Massive rock
(Geol.), a compact crystalline rock not distinctly schistone, as
granite; also, with some authors, an eruptive rock.

MASSIVELY
Mass"ive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a heavy mass.

MASSIVENESS
Mass"ive*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being massive; massiness.

MASSOOLA BOAT
Mas*soo"la boat`.

Defn: See Masoola boat.

MASSORA
Mas*so"ra, n.

Defn: Same as Masora.

MASSORET
Mas"so*ret, n.

Defn: Same as Masorite.

MASSY
Mass"y, a. [Compar. Massier; superl. Massiest.]

Defn: Compacted into, or consisting of, a mass; having bulk and
weight ot substance; ponderous; bulky and heavy; weight; heavy; as, a
massy shield; a massy rock.
Your swords are now too massy for your strengths, And will not be
uplifted. Shak.
Yawning rocks in massy fragments fly. Pope.

MAST
Mast, n. Etym: [AS. mæst, fem. ; akin to G. mast, and E. meat. See
Meat.]

Defn: The fruit of the oak and beech, or other forest trees; nuts;
acorns.
Oak mast, and beech, . . . they eat. Chapman.
Swine under an oak filling themselves with the mast. South.

MAST
Mast, n. Etym: [AS. mæst, masc.; akin to D., G., Dan., & Sw. mast,
Icel. mastr, and perh. to L. malus.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A pole, or long, strong, round piece of timber, or spar, set
upright in a boat or vessel, to sustain the sails, yards, rigging,
etc. A mast may also consist of several pieces of timber united by
iron bands, or of a hollow pillar of iron or steel.
The tallest pine Hewn on Norwegian hills, to be the mast Of some
great ammiral. Milton.

Note: The most common general names of masts are foremast, mainmast,
and mizzenmast, each of which may be made of separate spars.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: The vertical post of a derrick or crane. Afore the mast, Before
the mast. See under Afore, and Before.
 -- Mast coat. See under Coat.
 -- Mast hoop, one of a number of hoops attached to the fore edge of
a boom sail, which slip on the mast as the sail is raised or lowered;
also, one of the iron hoops used in making a made mast. See Made.

MAST
Mast, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Masted; p. pr. & vb. n. Masting.]

Defn: To furnish with a mast or masts; to put the masts of in
position; as, to mast a ship.

MASTABA; MASTABAH
Mas"ta*ba, n. Also Mas"ta*bah . [Ar. maçtabah a large stone bench.]

1. In Mohammedan countries, a fixed seat, common in dwellings and in
public places.

2.  (Egyptology) A type of tomb, of the time of the Memphite
dynasties, comprising an oblong structure with sloping sides
(sometimes containing a decorated chamber, sometimes of solid
masonry), and connected with a mummy chamber in the rock beneath.

MASTAX
Mas"tax, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) The pharynx of a rotifer. It usually contains four horny pieces.
The two central ones form the incus, against which the mallei, or
lateral ones, work so as to crush the food.
(b) The lore of a bird.

MASTED
Mast"ed, a.

Defn: Furnished with a mast or masts; -- chiefly in composition; as,
a three-masted schooner.

MASTER
Mast"er, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel having (so many) masts; -- used only in compounds; as,
a two-master.

MASTER
Mas"ter, n. Etym: [OE. maistre, maister, OF. maistre, mestre, F.
maître, fr. L. magister, orig. a double comparative from the root of
magnus great, akin to Gr. Maestro, Magister, Magistrate, Magnitude,
Major, Mister, Mistress, Mickle.]

1. A male person having another living being so far subject to his
will, that he can, in the main, control his or its actions; --
formerly used with much more extensive application than now. (a) The
employer of a servant. (b) The owner of a slave. (c) The person to
whom an apprentice is articled. (d) A sovereign, prince, or feudal
noble; a chief, or one exercising similar authority. (e) The head of
a household. (f) The male head of a school or college. (g) A male
teacher. (h) The director of a number of persons performing a
ceremony or sharing a feast. (i) The owner of a docile brute, --
especially a dog or horse. (j) The controller of a familiar spirit or
other supernatural being.

2. One who uses, or controls at will, anything inanimate; as, to be
master of one's time. Shak.
Master of a hundred thousand drachms. Addison.
We are masters of the sea. Jowett (Thucyd. ).

3. One who has attained great skill in the use or application of
anything; as, a master of oratorical art.
Great masters of ridicule. Maccaulay.
No care is taken to improve young men in their own language, that
they may thoroughly understand and be masters of it. Locke.

4. A title given by courtesy, now commonly pronounced mìster, except
when given to boys; -- sometimes written Mister, but usually
abbreviated to Mr.

5. A young gentleman; a lad, or small boy.
Where there are little masters and misses in a house, they are
impediments to the diversions of the servants. Swift.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: The commander of a merchant vessel; -- usually called captain.
Also, a commissioned officer in the navy ranking next above ensign
and below lieutenant; formerly, an officer on a man-of-war who had
immediate charge, under the commander, of sailing the vessel.

7. A person holding an office of authority among the Freemasons, esp.
the presiding officer; also, a person holding a similar office in
other civic societies. Little masters, certain German engravers of
the 16th century, so called from the extreme smallness of their
prints.
 -- Master in chancery, an officer of courts of equity, who acts as
an assistant to the chancellor or judge, by inquiring into various
matters referred to him, and reporting thereon to the court.
 -- Master of arts, one who takes the second degree at a university;
also, the degree or title itself, indicated by the abbreviation M.
A., or A. M.
 -- Master of the horse, the third great officer in the British
court, having the management of the royal stables, etc. In ceremonial
cavalcades he rides next to the sovereign.
 -- Master of the rolls, in England, an officer who has charge of the
rolls and patents that pass the great seal, and of the records of the
chancery, and acts as assistant judge of the court. Bouvier. Wharton.
 -- Past master, one who has held the office of master in a lodge of
Freemasons or in a society similarly organized.
 -- The old masters, distinguished painters who preceded modern
painters; especially, the celebrated painters of the 16th and 17th
centuries.
 -- To be master of one's self, to have entire self-control; not to
be governed by passion.
 -- To be one's own master, to be at liberty to act as one chooses
without dictation from anybody.

Note: Master, signifying chief, principal, masterly, superior,
thoroughly skilled, etc., is often used adjiectively or in compounds;
as, master builder or master-builder, master chord or master-chord,
master mason or master-mason, master workman or master-workman,
master mechanic, master mind, master spirit, master passion, etc.
Throughout the city by the master gate. Chaucer.
Master joint (Geol.), a quarryman's term for the more prominent and
extended joints traversing a rock mass.
 -- Master key, a key adapted to open several locks differing
somewhat from each other; figuratively, a rule or principle of
general application in solving difficulties.
 -- Master lode (Mining), the principal vein of ore.
 -- Master mariner, an experienced and skilled seaman who is
certified to be competent to command a merchant vessel.
 -- Master sinew (Far.), a large sinew that surrounds the hough of a
horse, and divides it from the bone by a hollow place, where the
windgalls are usually seated.
 -- Master singer. See Mastersinger.
 -- Master stroke, a capital performance; a masterly achievement; a
consummate action; as, a master stroke of policy.
 -- Master tap (Mech.), a tap for forming the thread in a screw
cutting die.
 -- Master touch. (a) The touch or skill of a master. Pope. (b) Some
part of a performance which exhibits very skillful work or treatment.
"Some master touches of this admirable piece." Tatler.
 -- Master work, the most important work accomplished by a skilled
person, as in architecture, literature, etc.; also, a work which
shows the skill of a master; a masterpiece.
 -- Master workman, a man specially skilled in any art, handicraft,
or trade, or who is an overseer, foreman, or employer.

MASTER
Mas"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mastered; p. pr. vb. n. Mastering.]

1. To become the master of; to subject to one's will, control, or
authority; to conquer; to overpower; to subdue.
Obstinacy and willful neglects must be mastered, even though it cost
blows. Locke.

2. To gain the command of, so as to understand or apply; to become an
adept in; as, to master a science.

3. To own; to posses. [Obs.]
The wealth That the world masters. Shak.

MASTER
Mas"ter, v. i.

Defn: To be skillful; to excel. [Obs.]

MASTERDOM
Mas"ter*dom, n. Etym: [Master + -dom.]

Defn: Dominion; rule; command. [R.] Shak.

MASTERFUL
Mas"ter*ful, a.

1. Inclined to play the master; domineering; imperious; arbitrary.
Dryden.

2. Having the skill or power of a master; indicating or expressing
power or mastery.
His masterful, pale face. Mrs. Browning.

MASTERFULLY
Mas"ter*ful*ly, adv.

Defn: In a masterful manner; imperiously.
A lawless and rebellious man who held lands masterfully and in high
contempt of the royal authority. Macaulay.

MASTERHOOD
Mas"ter*hood, n.

Defn: The state of being a master; hence, disposition to command or
hector. C. Bronté.

MASTERLESS
Mas"ter*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of a master or owner; ungoverned or ungovernable.
 -- Mas"ter*less*ness, n.

MASTERLINESS
Mas"ter*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being masterly; ability to control
wisely or skillfully.

MASTERLY
Mas"ter*ly, a.

1. Suitable to, or characteristic of, a master; indicating thorough
knowledge or superior skill and power; showing a master's hand; as, a
masterly design; a masterly performance; a masterly policy. "A wise
and masterly inactivity." Sir J. Mackintosh.

2. Imperious; domineering; arbitrary.

MASTERLY
Mas"ter*ly, adv.

Defn: With the skill of a master.
Thou dost speak masterly. Shak.

MASTEROUS
Mas"ter*ous, a.

Defn: Masterly. [Obs.] Milton.

MASTERPIECE
Mas"ter*piece`, n.

Defn: Anything done or made with extraordinary skill; a capital
performance; a chef-d'oeuvre; a supreme achievement.
The top and masterpiece of art. South.
Dissimulation was his masterpiece. Claredon.

MASTERSHIP
Mas"ter*ship, n.

1. The state or office of a master.

2. Mastery; dominion; superior skill; superiority.
Where noble youths for mastership should strive. Driden.

3. Chief work; masterpiece. [Obs.] Dryden.

4. An ironical title of respect.
How now, seignior Launce ! what news with your mastership Shak.

MASTERSINGER
Mas"ter*sing`er, n. Etym: [A translation of G. meistersänger.]

Defn: One of a class of poets which flourished in Nuremberg and some
other cities of Germany in the 15th and 16th centuries. They bound
themselves to observe certain arbitrary laws of rhythm.

MASTER VIBRATOR
Mas"ter vi"bra*tor.

Defn: In an internal-combustion engine with two or more cylinders, an
induction coil and vibrator placed in the circuit between the battery
or magneto and the coils for the different cylinders, which are used
without vibrators of their own.

MASTERWORT
Mas"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A tall and coarse European umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum
Ostruthium, formerly Imperatoria).
(b) The Astrantia major, a European umbelliferous plant with a showy
colored involucre.
(c) Improperly, the cow parsnip (Heracleum lanatum).

MASTERY
Mas"ter*y, n.; pl. Masteries. Etym: [OF. maistrie.]

1. The position or authority of a master; dominion; command;
supremacy; superiority.
If divided by mountains, they will fight for the mastery of the
passages of the tops. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. Superiority in war or competition; victory; triumph; preëminence.
The voice of them that shout for mastery. Ex. xxxii. 18.
Every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. 1
Cor. ix. 25.
O, but to have gulled him Had been a mastery. B. Jonson.

3. Contest for superiority. [Obs.] Holland.

4. A masterly operation; a feat. [Obs.]
I will do a maistrie ere I go. Chaucer.

5. Specifically, the philosopher's stone. [Obs.]

6. The act process of mastering; the state of having mastered.
He could attain to a mastery in all languages. Tillotson.
The learning and mastery of a tongue, being unpleasant in itself,
should not be cumbered with other difficulties. Locke.

MASTFUL
Mast"ful, a. Etym: [See lst Mast.]

Defn: Abounding in mast; producing mast in abundance; as, the mastful
forest; a mastful chestnut. Dryden.

MASTHEAD
Mast"head`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The top or head of a mast; the part of a mast above the hounds.

MASTHEAD
Mast"head", v. t. (Naut.)

Defn: To cause to go to the masthead as a punishment. Marryat.

MASTHOUSE
Mast"house`, n.

Defn: A building in which vessels' masts are shaped, fitted, etc.

MASTIC
Mas"tic, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. mastiche, mastichum, Gr. [Written also
mastich.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A low shrubby tree of the genus Pistacia (P. Lentiscus),
growing upon the islands and coasts of the Mediterranean, and
producing a valuable resin; -- called also, mastic tree.

2. A resin exuding from the mastic tree, and obtained by incision.
The best is in yellowish white, semitransparent tears, of a faint
smell, and is used as an astringent and an aromatic, also as an
ingredient in varnishes.

3. A kind of cement composed of burnt clay, litharge, and linseed
oil, used for plastering walls, etc. Barbary mastic (Bot.), the
Pistachia Atlantica.
 -- Peruvian mastic tree (Bot.), a small tree (Schinus Molle) with
peppery red berries; -- called also pepper tree.
 -- West Indian mastic (Bot.), a lofty tree (Bursera gummifera) full
of gum resin in every part.

MASTICABLE
Mas"ti*ca*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being masticated.

MASTICADOR
Mas`ti*ca"dor, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. mastigador. See Masticate.] (Man.)

Defn: A part of a bridle, the slavering bit. [Written also
mastigador.]

MASTICATE
Mas"ti*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Masticated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Masticating.] Etym: [L. masticatus, p. p. of masticare to chew, prob.
fr. mastiche mastic. See Mastic.]

Defn: To grind or crush with, or as with, the teeth and prepare for
swallowing and digestion; to chew; as, to masticate food.

MASTICATER
Mas"ti*ca`ter, n.

Defn: One who masticates.

MASTICATION
Mas`ti*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. masticatio: cf. F. mastication.]

Defn: The act or operation of masticating; chewing, as of food.
Mastication is a necessary preparation of solid aliment, without
which there can be no good digestion. Arbuthnot.

MASTICATOR
Mas"ti*ca`tor, n.

1. One who masticates.

2. A machine for cutting meat into fine pieces for toothless people;
also, a machine for cutting leather, India rubber, or similar tough
substances, into fine pieces, in some processes of manufacture.

MASTICATORY
Mas"ti*ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. masticatoire.]

Defn: Chewing; adapted to perform the office o

MASTICATORY
Mas"ti*ca*to*ry, n.; pl. -ries (. (Med.)

Defn: A substance to be chewed to increase the saliva. Bacon.

MASTICH
Mas"tich, n.

Defn: See Mastic.

MASTICIN
Mas"ti*cin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, amorphous, tenacious substance resembling caoutchouc,
and obtained as an insoluble residue of mastic.

MASTICOT
Mas"ti*cot, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Massicot. [Obs.]

MASTIFF
Mas"tiff, n.; pl. Mastiffs (. [Mastives is irregular and unusual.]
Etym: [Prob. fr. Prov. E. masty, adj., large, n., a great dog, prob.
fr. mast fruit, and hence, lit., fattened with mast. There is perh.
confusion with OF. mestif mongrel; cf. also F. mâtin mastiff, OF.
mastin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A breed of large dogs noted for strength and courage. There are
various strains, differing in form and color, and characteristic of
different countries. Mastiff bat (Zoöl.) , any bat of the genus
Molossus; so called because the face somewhat resembles that of a
mastiff.

MASTIGOPOD
Mas"ti*go*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Mastigopoda.

MASTIGOPODA
Mas`ti*gop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Infusoria.

MASTIGURE
Mas"ti*gure, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several large spiny-tailed lizards of the genus
Uromastix. They inhabit Southern Asia and North Africa.

MASTING
Mast"ing, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The act or process of putting a mast or masts into a vessel;
also, the scientific principles which determine the position of
masts, and the mechanical methods of placing them. Masting house
(Naut.), a large building, with suitable mechanism overhanging the
water, used for stepping and unstepping the masts of vessels.

MASTITIS
Mas*ti"tis, n. Etym: [Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the breast.

MASTLESS
Mast"less, a. Etym: [See lst Mast.]

Defn: Bearing no mast; as, a mastless oak or beech. Dryden.

MASTLESS
Mast"less, a. Etym: [See 2d Mast.]

Defn: Having no mast; as, a mastless vessel.

MASTLIN
Mast"lin, n.

Defn: See Maslin.

MASTODON
Mas"to*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of mammals closely allied to the elephant, but
having less complex molar teeth, and often a pair of lower, as well
as upper, tusks, which are incisor teeth. The species were mostly
larger than elephants, and their romains occur in nearly all parts of
the world in deposits ranging from Miocene to late Quaternary time.

MASTODONSAURUS
Mas`to*don*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. E. Mastodon + Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A large extinct genus of labyrinthodonts, found in the European
Triassic rocks.

MASTODONTIC
Mas`to*don"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a mastodon; as, mastodontic
dimensions. Everett.

MASTODYNIA; MASTODYNY
Mas`to*dyn"i*a, Mas*tod"y*ny (, n. Etym: [NL. mastodynia, fr. Gr.
(Med.)

Defn: Pain occuring in the mamma or female breast, -- a form of
neuralgia.

MASTOID
Mas"toid, a. Etym: [Gr. mastoïde.] (Anat.)
(a) Resembling the nipple or the breast; -- applied specifically to a
process of the temporal bone behind the ear.
(b) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the mastoid process;
mastoidal.

MASTOIDAL
Mas*toid"al, a.

Defn: Same as Mastoid.

MASTOIDITIS
Mas`toid*i*tis, n. [NL. See Mastoid, and -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation in the mastoid process of the temporal bone.

MASTOLOGY
Mas*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. mastologie.]

Defn: The natural history of Mammalia.

MASTRESS
Mas"tress, n.

Defn: Mistress. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MASTURBATION
Mas`tur*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. masturbatus, p. p. of masturbari to
practice onanism: cf. F. masturbation.]

Defn: Onanism; self-pollution.

MASTY
Mast"y, a. Etym: [See lst Mast.]

Defn: Full of mast; abounding in acorns, etc.

MASULA BOAT
Ma*su"la boat`.

Defn: Same as Masoola boat.

MAT
Mat, n. Etym: [Cf. Matte.]

Defn: A name given by coppersmiths to an alloy of copper, tin, iron,
etc., usually called white metal. [Written also matt.]

MAT
Mat, a. Etym: [OF. See 4th Mate.]

Defn: Cast down; dejected; overthrown; slain. [Obs.]
When he saw them so piteous and so maat. Chaucer.

MAT
Mat, n. Etym: [AS. matt, meatt, fr. L. matta a mat made of rushes.]

1. A fabric of sedge, rushes, flags, husks, straw, hemp, or similar
material, used for wiping and cleaning shoes at the door, for
covering the floor of a hall or room, and for other purposes.

2. Any similar fabric for various uses, as for covering plant houses,
putting beneath dishes or lamps on a table, securing rigging from
friction, and the like.

3. Anything growing thickly, or closely interwoven, so as to resemble
a mat in form or texture; as, a mat of weeds; a mat of hair.

4. An ornamental border made of paper, pasterboard, metal, etc., put
under the glass which covers a framed picture; as, the mat of a
daguerreotype. Mat grass. (Bot.) (a) A low, tufted, European grass
(Nardus stricta). (b) Same as Matweed.
 -- Mat rush (Bot.), a kind of rush (Scirpus lacustris) used in
England for making mats.

MAT
Mat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Matted; p. pr. & vb. n. Matting.]

1. To cover or lay with mats. Evelyn.

2. To twist, twine, or felt together; to interweave into, or like, a
mat; to entangle.
And o'er his eyebrows hung his matted hair. Dryden.

MAT
Mat, v. i.

Defn: To grow thick together; to become interwoven or felted together
like a mat.

MATABELE; MATABELES
Mat`a*be"le, or Mat`a*be"les, n. pl., sing. Matabele. [Written also
Matabili.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: A warlike South African Kaffir tribe.

MATACHIN
Ma`ta*chin", n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: An old dance with swords and bucklers; a sword dance.

MATACO
Mat"a*co, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The three-banded armadillo (Tolypeutis tricinctus). See Illust.
under Loricata.

MATADORE; MATADOR
Mat"a*dore, Mat"a*dor, n. Etym: [Sp. matador, prop., a killer, fr.
matar to kill, L. mactare to sacrifice, kill.]

1. The killer; the man appointed to kill the bull in bullfights.

2. (Card Playing)

Defn: In the game of quadrille or omber, the three principal trumps,
the ace of spades being the first, the ace of clubs the third, and
the second being the deuce of a black trump or the seven of a red
one.
When Lady Tricksey played a four, You took it with a matadore. Swift.

MATAGASSE
Mat`a*gasse", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A shrike or butcher bird; -- called also mattages. [Prov. Eng.]

MATAJUELO
Ma`ta*jue"lo (mä`ta*hwa"lo; 239), n. [Cf. Sp. matajudío a kind of
fish.]

Defn: A large squirrel fish (Holocentrus ascensionis) of Florida and
the West Indies.

MATAJUELO BLANCO
Ma`ta*jue"lo blan"co. [Sp. blanco white.]

Defn: A West Indian food fish (Malacanthus plumieri) related to the
tilefish.

MATAMATA
Ma`ta*ma"ta, n. Etym: [Pg.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bearded tortoise (Chelys fimbriata) of South American
rivers.

MATANZA
Ma*tan"za, n. Etym: [Sp., slaughter, fr. matar to kill.]

Defn: A place where animals are slaughtered for their hides and
tallow. [Western U. S.]

MATCH
Match, n. Etym: [OE. macche, F. mèche, F. mèche, fr. L. myxa a lamp
nozzle, Gr. Mucus.]

Defn: Anything used for catching and retaining or communicating fire,
made of some substance which takes fire readily, or remains burning
some time; esp., a small strip or splint of wood dipped at one end in
a substance which can be easily ignited by friction, as a preparation
of phosphorus or chlorate of potassium. Match box, a box for holding
matches.
 -- Match tub, a tub with a perforated cover for holding slow matches
for firing cannon, esp. on board ship. The tub contains a little
water in the bottom, for extinguishing sparks from the lighted
matches.
 -- Quick match, threads of cotton or cotton wick soaked in a
solution of gunpowder mixed with gum arabic and boiling water and
afterwards strewed over with mealed powder. It burns at the rate of
one yard in thirteen seconds, and is used as priming for heavy
mortars, fireworks, etc.
 -- Slow match, slightly twisted hempen rope soaked in a solution of
limewater and saltpeter or washed in a lye of water and wood ashes.
It burns at the rate of four or five inches an hour, and is used for
firing cannon, fireworks, etc.

MATCH
Match, n. Etym: [OE. macche, AS. gemæcca; akin to gemaca, and to OS.
gimako, OHG. gimah fitting, suitable, convenient, Icel. mark
suitable, maki mate, Sw. make, Dan. mage; all from the root of E.
make, v. See Make mate, and Make, v., and cf. Mate an associate.]

1. A person or thing equal or similar to another; one able to mate or
cope with another; an equal; a mate.
Government . . . makes an innocent man, though of the lowest rank, a
match for the mightiest of his fellow subjects. Addison.

2. A bringing together of two parties suited to one another, as for a
union, a trial of skill or force, a contest, or the like; as,
specifically:
(a) A contest to try strength or skill, or to determine superiority;
an emulous struggle. "Many a warlike match." Drayton.
A solemn match was made; he lost the prize. Dryden.

(b) A matrimonial union; a marriage.

3. An agreement, compact, etc. "Thy hand upon that match." Shak.
Love doth seldom suffer itself to be confined by other matches than
those of its own making. Boyle.

4. A candidate for matrimony; one to be gained in marriage. "She . .
. was looked upon as the richest match of the West." Clarendon.

5. Equality of conditions in contest or competition.
It were no match, your nail against his horn. Shak.

6. Suitable combination or bringing together; that which corresponds
or harmonizes with something else; as, the carpet and curtains are a
match.

7. (Founding)

Defn: A perforated board, block of plaster, hardened sand, etc., in
which a pattern is partly imbedded when a mold is made, for giving
shape to the surfaces of separation between the parts of the mold.
Match boarding (Carp.), boards fitted together with tongue and
groove, or prepared to be so fitted.
 -- Match game, a game arranged as a test of superiority.
 -- Match plane (Carp.), either of the two planes used to shape the
edges of boards which are joined by grooving and tonguing.
 -- Match plate (Founding), a board or plate on the opposite sides of
which the halves of a pattern are fastened, to facilitate molding.
Knight.
 -- Match wheel (Mach.), a cogwheel of suitable pitch to work with
another wheel; specifically, one of a pair of cogwheels of equal
size.

MATCH
Match, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Matched; p. pr. & vb. n. Matching.]

1. To be a mate or match for; to be able to complete with; to rival
successfully; to equal.
No settled senses of the world can match The pleasure of that
madness. Shak.

2. To furnish with its match; to bring a match, or equal, against; to
show an equal competitor to; to set something in competition with, or
in opposition to, as equal.
No history or antiquity can matchis policies and his conduct. South.

3. To oppose as equal; to contend successfully against.
Eternal might To match with their inventions they presumed So easy,
and of his thunder made a scorn. Milton.

4. To make or procure the equal of, or that which is exactly similar
to, or corresponds with; as, to match a vase or a horse; to match
cloth. "Matching of patterns and colors." Swift.

5. To make equal, proportionate, or suitable; to adapt, fit, or suit
(one thing to another).
Let poets match their subject to their strength. Roscommon.

6. To marry; to give in marriage.
A senator of Rome survived, Would not have matched his daughter with
a king. Addison.

7. To fit together, or make suitable for fitting together;
specifically, to furnish with a tongue and a groove, at the edges;
as, to match boards. Matching machine, a planing machine for forming
a tongue or a groove on the edge of a board.

MATCH
Match, v. i.

1. To be united in marriage; to mate.
I hold it a sin to match in my kindred. Shak.
Let tigers match with hinds, and wolves with sheep. Dryden.

2. To be of equal, or similar, size, figure, color, or quality; to
tally; to suit; to correspond; as, these vases match.

MATCHABLE
Match"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being matched; comparable on equal conditions;
adapted to being joined together; correspondent.
 -- Match"a*ble*ness, n.
Sir Walter Raleigh . . . is matchable with the best of the ancients.
Hakewill.

MATCH-CLOTH
Match"-cloth`, n.

Defn: A coarse cloth.

MATCH-COAT
Match"-coat`, n.

Defn: A coat made of match-cloth.

MATCHER
Match"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, matches; a matching machine. See under
3d Match.

MATCH GAME
Match game.

Defn: A game arranged as a test of superiority; also, one of a series
of such games.

MATCHLESS
Match"less, a. Etym: [Cf. Mateless.]

1. Having no equal; unequaled. "A matchless queen." Waller.

2. Unlike each other; unequal; unsuited. [Obs.] "Matchless ears."
Spenser.
 -- Match"less*ly, adv.
 -- Match"less*ness, n.

MATCHLOCK
Match"lock`, n.

Defn: An old form of gunlock containing a match for firing the
priming; hence, a musket fired by means of a match.

MATCHMAKER
Match"mak`er, n.

1. One who makes matches for burning or kinding.

2. One who tries to bring about marriages.

MATCHMAKING
Match"mak`ing, n.

1. The act or process of making matches for kindling or burning.

2. The act or process of trying to bring about a marriage for others.

MATCHMAKING
Match"mak`ing, a.

Defn: Busy in making or contriving marriages; as, a matchmaking
woman.

MATCH PLAY
Match play. (Golf)

Defn: Play in which the score is reckoned by counting the holes won
or lost by each side; -- disting. from medal play.

MATE
Ma"te, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: The Paraguay tea, being the dried leaf of the Brazilian holly
(Ilex Paraguensis). The infusion has a pleasant odor, with an
agreeable bitter taste, and is much used for tea in South America.

MATE
Mate, n. Etym: [F. mat, abbrev. fr. échec et mat. See Checkmate.]
(Chess)

Defn: Same as Checkmate.

MATE
Mate, a.

Defn: See 2d Mat. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MATE
Mate, v. t. Etym: [F. mater to fatigue, enfeeble, humiliate,
checkmate. See Mate checkmate.]

1. To confuse; to confound. [Obs.] Shak.

2. To checkmate.

MATE
Mate, n. Etym: [Perhaps for older make a companion; cf. also OD. maet
companion, mate, D. maat. Cf. Make a companion, Match a mate.]

1. One who customarily associates with another; a companion; an
associate; any object which is associated or combined with a similar
object.

2. Hence, specifically, a husband or wife; and among the lower
animals, one of a pair associated for propagation and the care of
their young.

3. A suitable companion; a match; an equal.
Ye knew me once no mate For you; there sitting where you durst not
soar. Milton.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: An officer in a merchant vessel ranking next below the captain.
If there are more than one bearing the title, they are called,
respectively, first mate, second mate, third mate, etc. In the navy,
a subordinate officer or assistant; as, master's mate; surgeon's
mate.

MATE
Mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mated; p. pr. & vb. n. Mating.]

1. To match; to marry.
If she be mated with an equal husband. Shak.

2. To match one's self against; to oppose as equal; to compete with.
There is no passion in the mind of man so weak but it mates and
masters the fear of death. Bacon.
I, . . . in the way of loyalty and truth, . . . Dare mate a sounder
man than Surrey can be. Shak.

MATE
Mate, v. i.

Defn: To be or become a mate or mates, especially in sexual
companionship; as, some birds mate for life; this bird will not mate
with that one.

MATELASSE
Mate`las`sé", a. [F., p.p. of matelasser to cushion, to cover as with
a mattress, fr. matelas mattress. See Mattress.]

Defn: Ornamented by means of an imitation or suggestion of quilting,
the surface being marked by depressed lines which form squares or
lozenges in relief; as, matelassé silks.

MATELASSE
Mate`las`sé", n.

Defn: A quilted ornamented dress fabric of silk or silk and wool.

MATELESS
Mate"less, a. Etym: [Cf. Matchless.]

Defn: Having no mate.

MATELOTE
Mat"e*lote, n. Etym: [F., fr. matelot a sailor; properly, a dish such
as sailors prepare.]

Defn: A dish of food composed of many kings of fish.

MATELOTE; MATELOTTE
Mat"e*lote, Mat"e*lotte, n. [F. matelote, fr. matelot a sailor;
properly, a dish such as a sailors prepare.]

1. A stew, commonly of fish, flavored with wine, and served with a
wine sauce containing onions, mushrooms, etc.

2.  An old dance of sailors, in double time, and somewhat like a
hornpipe.

MATEOLOGY
Ma`te*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. matéologie.]

Defn: A vain, unprofitable discourse or inquiry. [R.]

MATEOTECHNY
Ma`te*o*tech"ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Any unprofitable science. [Obs.]

MATER
Ma"ter, n. Etym: [L., mother. See Mother.]

Defn: See Alma mater, Dura mater, and Pia mater.

MATERIAL
Ma*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. materialis, fr. materia stuff, matter: cf.
F. matériel. See Matter, and cf. MatÉriel.]

1. Consisting of matter; not spiritual; corporeal; physical; as,
material substance or bodies.
The material elements of the universe. Whewell.

2. Hence: Pertaining to, or affecting, the physical nature of man, as
distinguished from the mental or moral nature; relating to the bodily
wants, interests, and comforts.

3. Of solid or weighty character; not insubstantial; of cinsequence;
not be dispensed with; important.
Discourse, which was always material, never trifling. Evelyn.
I shall, in the account of simple ideas, set down only such as are
most material to our present purpose. Locke.

4. (Logic.)

Defn: Pertaining to the matter, as opposed to the form, of a thing.
See Matter. Material cause. See under Cause.
 -- Material evidence (Law), evidence which conduces to the proof or
disproof of a relevant hypothesis. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- Corporeal; bodily; important; weighty; momentous; essential.

MATERIAL
Ma*te"ri*al, n.

Defn: The substance or matter of which anything is made or may be
made. Raw material, any crude, unfinished, or elementary materials
that are adapted to use only by processes of skilled labor. Cotton,
wool, ore, logs, etc., are raw material.

MATERIAL
Ma*te"ri*al, v. t.

Defn: To form from matter; to materialize. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MATERIALISM
Ma*te"ri*al*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. matérialisme.]

1. The doctrine of materialists; materialistic views and tenets.
The irregular fears of a future state had been supplanted by the
materialism of Epicurus. Buckminster.

2. The tendency to give undue importance to material interests;
devotion to the material nature and its wants.

3. Material substances in the aggregate; matter. [R. & Obs.] A.
Chalmers.

MATERIALIST
Ma*te"ri*al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. matérialiste.]

1. One who denies the existence of spiritual substances or agents,
and maintains that spiritual phenomena, so called, are the result of
some peculiar organization of matter.

2. One who holds to the existence of matter, as distinguished from
the idealist, who denies it. Berkeley.

MATERIALISTIC; MATERIALISTICAL
Ma*te`ri*al*is"tic, Ma*te`ri*al*is"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to materialism or materialists; of the nature
of materialism.
But to me his very spiritualism seemed more materialistic than his
physics. C. Kingsley.

MATERIALITY
Ma*te`ri*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. matérialité.]

1. The quality or state of being material; material existence;
corporeity.

2. Importance; as, the materiality of facts.

MATERIALIZATION
Ma*te`ri*al*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of materializing, or the state of being materialized.

MATERIALIZE
Ma*te"ri*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Materialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Materializing.] Etym: [Cf. F. matérialiser.]

1. To invest wich material characteristics; to make perceptible to
the senses; hence, to present to the mind through the medium of
material objects.
Having wich wonderful art and beauty materialized, if I may so call
it, a scheme of abstracted notions, and clothed the most nice,
refined conceptions of philosophy in sensible images. Tatler.

2. To regard as matter; to consider or explain by the laws or
principles which are appropriate to matter.

3. To cause to assume a character appropriate to material things; to
occupy with material interests; as, to materialize thought.

4. (Spiritualism)

Defn: To make visable in, or as in, a material form; -- said of
spirits.
A female spirit form temporarily materialized, and not
distinguishable from a human being. Epes Sargent.

MATERIALIZE
Ma*te"ri*al*ize, v. i.

Defn: To appear as a material form; to take substantial shape.
[Colloq.]

MATERIALLY
Ma*te"ri*al*ly, adv.

1. In the state of matter.
I do not mean that anything is separable from a body by fire that was
not materially preëxistent in it. Boyle.

2. In its essence; substantially.
An ill intention is certainly sufficient to spoil . . . an act in
itself materially good. South.

3. In an important manner or degree; essentaily; as, it materially
concern us to know the real motives of our actions.

MATERIALNESS
Ma*te"ri*al*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being material.

MATERIA MEDICA
Ma*te"ri*a med"i*ca. Etym: [L. See Matter, and Medical.]

1. Material or substance used in the composition of remedies; -- a
general term for all substances used as curative agents in medicine.

2. That branch of medical science which treats of the nature and
properties of all the substances that are employed for the cure of
diseases.

MATERIARIAN
Ma*te`ri*a"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. materiarius.]

Defn: See Materialist. [Obs.]

MATERIATE; MATERIATED
Ma*te"ri*ate, Ma*te"ri*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. materiatus, p. p. of
materiare to build of wood.]

Defn: Consisting of matter. [Obs.] Bacon.

MATERIATION
Ma*te`ri*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. materiatio woodwork.]

Defn: Act of forming matter. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MATERIEL
Ma`té`ri`el", n. Etym: [F. See Material.]

Defn: That in a complex system which constitutes the materials, or
instruments employed, in distinction from the personnel, or men; as,
the baggage, munitions, provisions, etc., of an army; or the
buildings, libraries, and apparatus of a college, in distinction from
its officers.

MATERIOUS
Ma*te"ri*ous, a.

Defn: See Material. [Obs.]

MATERNAL
Ma*ter"nal, a. Etym: [F. maternel, L. maternus, fr. mater mother. See
Mother.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a mother; becoming to a mother; motherly;
as, maternal love; maternal tenderness.

Syn.
 -- See Motherly.

MATERNALLY
Ma*ter"nal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a motherly manner.

MATERNITY
Ma*ter"ni*ty, n. Etym: [F. maternité, LL. maternitas.]

Defn: The state of being a mother; the character or relation of a
mother.

MATFELON
Mat"fel*on, n. Etym: [W. madfelen.] (Bot.)

Defn: The knapweed (Centaurea nigra).

MATH
Math, n. Etym: [AS. mmawan to mow, G. mahd math. See Mow to cut
(grass).]

Defn: A mowing, or that which is gathered by mowing; -- chiefly used
in composition; as, an aftermath. [Obs.]
The first mowing thereof, for the king's use, is wont to be sooner
than the common math. Bp. Hall.

MATHEMATIC
Math`e*mat"ic, a. Etym: [F. mathématique, L. mathematicus, Gr. mind.
See Mind.]

Defn: See Mathematical.

MATHEMATICAL
Math`e*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Mathematic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to mathematics; according to mathematics;
hence, theoretically precise; accurate; as, mathematical geography;
mathematical instruments; mathematical exactness.
 -- Math`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

MATHEMATICIAN
Math`e*ma*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mathématicien.]

Defn: One versed in mathematics.

MATHEMATICS
Math`e*mat"ics, n. Etym: [F. mathématiques, pl., L. mathematica,
sing., Gr. Mathematic, and -ics.]

Defn: That science, or class of sciences, which treats of the exact
relations existing between quantities or magnitudes, and of the
methods by which, in accordance with these relations, quantities
sought are deducible from other quantities known or supposed; the
science of spatial and quantitative relations.

Note: Mathematics embraces three departments, namely: 1. Arithmetic.
2. Geometry, including Trigonometry and Conic Sections. 3. Analysis,
in which letters are used, including Algebra, Analytical Geometry,
and Calculus. Each of these divisions is divided into pure or
abstract, which considers magnitude or quantity abstractly, without
relation to matter; and mixed or applied, which treats of magnitude
as subsisting in material bodies, and is consequently interwoven with
physical considerations.

MATHER
Math"er, n.

Defn: See Madder.

MATHES
Math"es, n. Etym: [Perh. corrupted fr. L. anthemis camomile, Gr.
(Bot.)

Defn: The mayweed. Cf. Maghet.

MATHESIS
Ma*the"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: Learning; especially, mathematics. [R.] Pope.

MATHURIN
Math"u*rin, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: See Trinitarian.

MATICO
Ma*ti"co, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A Peruvian plant (Piper, or Artanthe, elongatum), allied to the
pepper, the leaves of which are used as a styptic and astringent.

MATIE
Mat"ie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fat herring with undeveloped roe. [Written also matty.] [Eng.
& Scot.]

MATIN
Ma`tin", n. Etym: [F. matin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A French mastiff.

MATIN
Mat"in, n. Etym: [F. fr. L. matutinum the morning, matutinus of the
morning, Matuta the goddess of the morning. See Matutinal.]

1. Morning. [Obs.] Shak.

2. pl. Etym: [F. matines. See Etymol. above.]

Defn: Morning worship or service; morning prayers or songs.
The winged choristers began To chirp their matins. Cleveland.

3. Time of morning service; the first canonical hour in the Roman
Catholic Church.

MATIN
Mat"in, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the morning, or to matins; used in the
morning; matutinal.

MATINAL
Mat"in*al, a.

Defn: Relating to the morning, or to matins; matutinal.

MATINEE
Mat`i*née", n. Etym: [F., from matin. See Matin.]

Defn: A reception, or a musical or dramatic entertainment, held in
the daytime. See SoirÉe.

MATRASS
Ma*trass", n. Etym: [F. matras; perh. so called from its long narrow
neck; cf. OF. matras large arrow, L. materis, mataris, matara, a
Celtic javelin, pike; of Celtic origin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A round-bottomed glass flask having a long neck; a bolthead.

MATRESS
Mat"ress, n.

Defn: See Matress.

MATRIARCH
Ma"tri*arch, n. Etym: [L. mater mother + -arch.]

Defn: The mother and ruler of a family or of her descendants; a ruler
by maternal right.

MATRIARCHAL
Ma`tri*ar"chal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a matriarch; governed by a matriarch.

MATRIARCHATE
Ma"tri*ar"chate, n.

Defn: The office or jurisdiction of a matriarch; a matriarchal form
of government.

MATRICE
Ma"trice, n. Etym: [Cf. F. matrice. See Matrix.]

Defn: See Matrix.

MATRICIDAL
Mat"ri*ci`dal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to matricide.

MATRICIDE
Mat"ri*cide, n. Etym: [L. matricidium; mater mother + coedere to
kill, slay: cf. F. matricide. See Mother, and cf. Homicide.]

1. The murder of a mother by her son or daughter.

2. Etym: [L. matricida: cf. F. matricide.]

Defn: One who murders one's own mother.

MATRICULATE
Ma*tric"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Matriculated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Matriculating.] Etym: [L. matricula a public roll or register, dim.
of matrix a mother, in respect to propagation, also, a public
register. See Matrix.]

Defn: To enroll; to enter in a register; specifically, to enter or
admit to membership in a body or society, particularly in a college
or university, by enrolling the name in a register.
In discovering and matriculating the arms of commissaries from North
America. Sir W. Scott.

MATRICULATE
Ma*tric"u*late, v. i.

Defn: To go though the process of admission to membership, as by
examination and enrollment, in a society or college.

MATRICULATE
Ma*tric"u*late, a.

Defn: Matriculated. Skelton.
 -- n.

Defn: One who is matriculated. Arbuthnot.

MATRICULATION
Ma*tric`u*la"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of matriculating; the state of being
matriculated.

MATRIMOINE
Mat"ri*moine, n.

Defn: Matrimony. [Obs.]

MATRIMONIAL
Mat`ri*mo"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. matrimonialis: cf. F. matrimonial. See
Matrimony.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to marriage; derived from marriage; connubial;
nuptial; hymeneal; as, matrimonial rights or duties.
If he relied upon that title, he could be but a king at courtesy, and
have rather a matrimonial than a regal power. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Connubial; conjugal; sponsal; spousal; nuptial; hymeneal.

MATRIMONIALLY
Mat`ri*mo"ni*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a matrimonial manner.

MATRIMONIOUS
Mat`ri*mo"ni*ous, a.

Defn: Matrimonial. [R.] Milton.

MATRIMONY
Mat"ri*mo*ny, n. Etym: [OE. matrimoine, through Old French, fr. L.
matrimonium, fr. mater mother. See Mother.]

1. The union of man and woman as husband and wife; the nuptial state;
marriage; wedlock.
If either of you know any impediment, why ye may not be lawfully
joined together in matrimony, ye do now confessit. Book of Com.
Prayer (Eng. Ed. )

2. A kind of game at cards played by several persons. Matrimony vine
(Bot.), a climbing thorny vine (Lycium barbarum) of the Potato
family. Gray.

Syn.
 -- Marriage; wedlock. See Marriage.