

MEDLEY
Med"ley, a.

1. Mixed; of mixed material or color. [Obs.] "A medlè coat." Chaucer.

2. Mingled; confused. Dryden.

MEDLY
Med"ly, v. t.

Defn: See Medle. Johnson.

MEDOC
Mé`doc", n. Etym: [Cf. Mayduke.]

Defn: A class of claret wines, including several varieties, from the
district of Médoc in the department of Gironde.

MEDREGAL
Med"re*gal, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Bonito, 3.

MEDRICK
Med"rick, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of gull or tern. [Prov.] Lowell.

MEDULLA
Me*dul"la, n. Etym: [L.]

1. Marrow; pith; hence, essence. [Obs.] Milton.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The marrow of bones; the deep or inner portion of an organ or
part; as, the medulla, or medullary substance, of the kidney;
specifically, the medula oblongata.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A soft tissue, occupying the center of the stem or branch of a
plant; pith. Medulla oblongata. Etym: [L., oblong medulla] (Anat.),
the posterior part of the brain connected with the spinal cord. It
includes all the hindbrain except the cerebellum and pons, and from
it a large part of the cranial nerves arise. It controls very largely
respiration, circulation, swallowing, and other functions, and is the
most vital part of the brain; -- called also bulb of the spinal cord.
See Brain.

MEDULLAR
Me*dul"lar, a.

Defn: See Medullary.

MEDULLARY
Med"ul*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. medullaris, fr. medulla marrow: cf. F.
médullaire.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, marrow or medulla.
(b) Pertaining to the medula oblongata.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Filled with spongy pith; pithy. Medullary groove (Anat.), a
groove, in the epiblast of the vertebrate blastoderm, the edges of
which unite, making a tube (the medullary canal) from which the brain
and spinal cord are developed.
 -- Medullary rays (Bot.), the rays of cellular tissue seen in a
transverse section of exogenous wood, which pass from the pith to the
bark.
 -- Medullary sheath (Anat.), the layer of white semifluid substance
(myelin), between the primitive sheath and axis cylinder of a
medullated nerve fiber.

MEDULLATED
Me*dul"la*ted, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Furnished with a medulla or marrow, or with a medullary sheath;
as, a medullated nerve fiber.

MEDULLIN
Me*dul"lin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. médulline.] (Bot. Chem.)

Defn: A variety of lignin or cellulose found in the medulla, or pith,
of certain plants. Cf. Lignin, and Cellulose.

MEDUSA
Me*du"sa, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Gorgon; or one of the Gorgons whose hair was changed into
serpents, after which all who looked upon her were turned into stone.

2. [pl. Medusae (.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any free swimming acaleph; a jellyfish.

Note: The larger medusæ belong to the Discophora, and are sometimes
called covered-eyed medusæ; others, known as naked-eyed medusæ,
belong to the Hydroidea, and are usually developed by budding from
hidroids. See Discophora, Hydroidea, and Hydromedusa. Medusa bud
(Zoöl.), one of the buds of a hydroid, destined to develop into a
gonophore or medusa. See Athecata, and Gonotheca.
 -- Medusa's head. (a) (Zoöl.) An astrophyton. (b) (Astron.) A
cluster of stars in the constellation Perseus. It contains the bright
star Algol.

MEDUSIAN
Me*du"si*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A medusa.

MEDUSIFORM
Me*du"si*form, a. Etym: [Medusa + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling a medusa in shape or structure.

MEDUSOID
Me*du"soid, a. Etym: [Medusa + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like a medusa; having the fundamental structure of a medusa,
but without a locomotive disk; -- said of the sessile gonophores of
hydroids.
 -- n.

Defn: A sessile gonophore. See Illust. under Gonosome.

MEECH
Meech, v. i.

Defn: See Mich. [Obs. or Colloq.]

MEED
Meed, n. Etym: [OE. mede, AS. med, meord; akin to OS. m, OHG. miata,
mieta, G. miethe hire, Goth. mizdo reward, Bohem. & Russ. mzda, Gr.
mistho`s, Skr. midha. sq. root276.]

1. That which is bestowed or rendered in consideration of merit;
reward; recompense.
A rosy garland was the victor's meed. Spenser.

2. Merit or desert; worth.
My meed hath got me fame. Shak.

3. A gift; also, a bride. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MEED
Meed, v. t.

1. To reward; to repay. [Obs.] Waytt.

2. To deserve; to merit. [Obs.] Heywood.

MEEDFUL
Meed"ful, a.

Defn: Worthy of meed, reward, or recompense; meritorious. "Meedful
works." Wiclif.

MEEDFULLY
Meed"ful*ly, adv.

Defn: According to merit; suitably.

MEEK
Meek, a. [Compar. Meeker; superl. Meekest.] Etym: [OE. mek, meoc;
akin to Icel. mj mild, soft, Sw. mjuk, Dan. myg, D. muik, Goth. mukam

1. Mild of temper; not easily provoked or orritated; patient under
injuries; not vain, or haughty, or resentful; forbearing; submissive.
Not the man Moses was very meek. Num. xii. 3.

2. Evincing mildness of temper, or patience; characterized by
mildness or patience; as, a meek answer; a meek face. "Her meek
prayer." Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Gentle; mild; soft; yielding; pacific; unassuming; humble. See
Gentle.

MEEK; MEEKEN
Meek, Meek"en (-'n), v. t.

Defn: To make meek; to nurture in gentleness and humility. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

MEEKLY
Meek"ly, adv.

Defn: In a meek manner. Spenser.

MEEKNESS
Meek"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being meek.

MEER
Meer, a.

Defn: Simple; unmixed. See Mere, a. [Obs.]

MEER
Meer, n.

Defn: See Mere, a lake.

MEER
Meer, n.

Defn: A boundary. See Mere.

MEERKAT
Meer"kat, n. Etym: [D.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South African carnivore (Cynictis penicillata), allied to the
ichneumons.

MEERSCHAUM
Meer"schaum, n. Etym: [G., lit., sea foam; meer sea + schaum foam;
but it perh. is a corruption of the Tartaric name myrsen. Cf. Mere a
lake, and Scum.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A fine white claylike mineral, soft, and light enough when in
dry masses to float in water. It is a hydrous silicate of magnesia,
and is obtained chiefly in Asia Minor. It is manufacturd into tobacco
pipes, cigar holders, etc. Also called sepiolite.

2. A tobacco pipe made of this mineral.

MEET
Meet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Met; p. pr. & vb. n. Meeting.] Etym: [OE.
meten, AS. m, fr. m, gem, a meeting; akin to OS. m to meet, Icel.
mæta, Goth. gam. See Moot, v. t.]

1. To join, or come in contact with; esp., to come in contact with by
approach from an opposite direction; to come upon or against, front
to front, as distinguished from contact by following and overtaking.

2. To come in collision with; to confront in conflict; to encounter
hostilely; as, they met the enemy and defeated them; the ship met
opposing winds and currents.

3. To come into the presence of without contact; to come close to; to
intercept; to come within the perception, influence, or recognition
of; as, to meet a train at a junction; to meet carriages or persons
in the street; to meet friends at a party; sweet sounds met the ear.
His daughter came out to meet him. Judg. xi. 34.

4. To perceive; to come to a knowledge of; to have personal
acquaintance with; to experience; to suffer; as, the eye met a horrid
sight; he met his fate.
Of vice or virtue, whether blest or curst, Which meets contempt, or
which compassion first. Pope.

5. To come up to; to be even with; to equal; to match; to satisfy; to
ansver; as, to meet one's expectations; the supply meets the demand.
To meet half way, literally, to go half the distance between in order
to meet (one); hence, figuratively, to yield or concede half of the
difference in order to effect a compromise or reconciliation with.

MEET
Meet, v. t.

1. To come together by mutual approach; esp., to come in contact, or
into proximity, by approach from opposite directions; to join; to
come face to face; to come in close relationship; as, we met in the
street; two lines meet so as to form an angle.
O, when meet now Such pairs in love and mutual honor joined ! Milton.

2. To come together with hostile purpose; to have an encounter or
conflict.
Weapons more violent, when next we meet, May serve to better us and
worse our foes. Milton.

3. To assemble together; to congregate; as, Congress meets on the
first Monday of December.
They . . . appointed a day to meet together. 2. Macc. xiv. 21.

4. To come together by mutual concessions; hence, to agree; to
harmonize; to unite. To meet with. (a) To light upon; to find; to
come to; -- often with the sense of unexpectedness.
We met with many things worthy of observation. Bacon.
(b) To join; to unite in company. Shak. (c) To suffer unexpectedly;
as, to meet with a fall; to meet with a loss. (d) To encounter; to be
subjected to.
Prepare to meet with more than brutal fury From the fierce prince.
Rowe.
(e) To obviate. [Obs.] Bacon.

MEET
Meet, n.

Defn: An assembling together; esp., the assembling of huntsmen for
the hunt; also, the persons who so assemble, and the place of
meeting.

MEET
Meet, a. Etym: [OE. mete fitting, moderate, scanty, AS. m moderate;
akin to gemet fit, meet, metan to mete, and G. mässig moderate,
gemäss fitting. See Mete.]

Defn: Suitable; fit; proper; appropriate; qualified; convenient.
It was meet that we should make merry. Luke xv. 32.
To be meet with, to be even with; to be equal to. [Obs.]

MEET
Meet, adv.

Defn: Meetly. [Obs.] Shak.

MEETEN
Meet"en, v. t.

Defn: To render fit. [R.]

MEETER
Meet"er, n.

Defn: One who meets.

MEETH
Meeth

Defn: , Mead. See Meathe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MEETING
Meet"ing, n.

1. A coming together; an assembling; as, the meeting of Congress.

2. A junction, crossing, or union; as, the meeting of the roads or of
two rivers.

3. A congregation; a collection of people; a convention; as, a large
meeting; an harmonius meeting.

4. An assembly for worship; as, to attend meeting on Sunday; -- in
England, applied distinctively and disparagingly to the worshiping
assemblies of Dissenters.

Syn.
 -- Conference; assembly; company; convention; congregation;
junction; confluence; union.

MEETINGHOUSE
Meet"ing*house`, n.

Defn: A house used as a place of worship; a church; -- in England,
applied only to a house so used by Dissenters.

MEETLY
Meet"ly, adv.

Defn: Fitly; suitably; properly.

MEETNESS
Meet"ness, n.

Defn: Fitness; suitableness; propriety.

MEG-; MEGA; MEGALO-
Meg-, Meg"a, Meg"a*lo-. Etym: [Gr. me`gas, gen. mega`loy, great.]

Defn: Combining forms signifying: (a) Great, extended, powerful; as,
megascope, megacosm. (b) (Metric System, Elec., Mech., etc.)

Defn: A million times, a million of; as, megameter, a million meters;
megafarad, a million farads; megohm, a million ohms.

MEGACEPHALIC; MEGACEPHALOUS
Meg`a*ce*phal"ic, Meg`a*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Mega- Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Large headed; -- applied to animals, and to plants when they
have large flower heads.

MEGACEROS
Me*gac"e*ros, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. me`gas great + horn.] (Paleon.)

Defn: The Irish elk.

MEGACHILE
Meg"a*chile, n. Etym: [Mega- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A leaf-cutting bee of the genus Megachilus. See Leaf cutter,
under Leaf.

MEGACOSM
Meg"a*cosm, n. Etym: [Mega- + Gr.

Defn: See Macrocosm. Croft.

MEGACOULOMB
Meg`a*cou`lomb", n. Etym: [Mega- + coulomb.] (Elec.)

Defn: A million coulombs.

MEGADERM
Meg"a*derm, n. Etym: [Mega- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of Old World blood-sucking bats of
the genus Megaderma.

MEGADYNE
Meg"a*dyne, n. Etym: [Mega- + dyne.] (Physics)

Defn: One of the larger measures of force, amounting to one million
dynes.

MEGAFARAD
Meg"a*far`ad, n. Etym: [Mega- + farad.] (Elec.)

Defn: One of the larger measures of electrical capacity, amounting to
one million farads; a macrofarad.

MEGALERG
Meg"a*lerg, n. Etym: [Megalo- + erg.] (Physics)

Defn: A million ergs; a megerg.

MEGALESIAN
Meg`a*le"sian, a. Etym: [L. Megalesius, fr. Gr. Mega`lh the Great, a
surname of Cybele, the Magna Mater.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or in honor of, Cybele; as, the Megalesian games
at Rome.

MEGALETHOSCOPE
Meg`a*leth"o*scope, n. Etym: [Mega- + alethoscope.]

Defn: An optical apparatus in which pictures are viewed through a
large lens with stereoptical effects. It is often combined with the
stereoscope.

MEGALITH
Meg"a*lith, n. Etym: [Mega- + -lith; cf. F. mégalithe.]

Defn: A large stone; especially, a large stone used in ancient
building.
 -- Meg`a*lith"ic, a.

MEGALO-
Meg"a*lo-.

Defn: See Meg-.

MEGALOCEPHALIA; MEGALOCEPHALY
Meg`a*lo*ce*pha"li*a, Meg`a*lo*ceph"a*ly, n. [NL. megalocephalia, fr.
Gr.  having a large head.] (Med.)

Defn: The condition of having an abnormally large head. --
Meg`a*lo*ce*phal"ic (#), a.

MEGALOCYTE
Meg"a*lo*cyte, n. Etym: [Megalo- + Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A large, flattened corpuscle, twice the diameter of the
ordinary red corpuscle, found in considerable numbers in the blood in
profound anæmia.

MEGALOMANIA
Meg`a*lo*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. megalo- + mania.] (Pathol.)

Defn: A form of mental alienation in which the patient has grandiose
delusions.

MEGALONYX
Meg`a*lon"yx, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. me`gas, mega`lh, great + 'o`nyx
claw.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct quaternary mammal, of great size, allied to the
sloth.

MEGALOPHONOUS
Meg`a*loph"o*nous, a. Etym: [Megalo- + Gr. fwnh` voice.]

Defn: Having a loud voice.

MEGALOPOLIS
Meg`a*lop"o*lis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. megalo`polis; me`gas,
mega`lh, great + po`lis city.]

Defn: A chief city; a metropolis. [R.]

MEGALOPS
Meg"a*lops, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. me`gas, -a`loy, large + 'w`ps
eye.] (Zoöl.)

1. A larva, in a stage following the zoëa, in the development of most
crabs. In this stage the legs and abdominal appendages have appeared,
the abdomen is relatively long, and the eyes are large. Also used
adjectively.

2. A large fish; the tarpum.

MEGALOPSYCHY
Meg`a*lop"sy*chy, n. Etym: [Megalo- + Gr.

Defn: Greatness of soul. [Obs. & R.]

MEGALOSAUR; MEGALOSAURUS
Meg"a*lo*saur`, Meg`a*lo*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL. megalosaurus, fr. Gr.
mégalosaure.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A gigantic carnivorous dinosaur, whose fossil remains have been
found in England and elsewhere.

MEGAMETER
Me*gam"e*ter, n. Etym: [Mega- + -meter: cf. F. mégamètre.] (Physics)

1. An instrument for determining longitude by observation of the
stars.

2. A micrometer. [R.] Knight.

MEGAMETER; MEGAMETRE
Meg"a*me`ter, Meg"a*me`tre, n. Etym: [Mega- + meter, metre, n., 2.]

Defn: In the metric system, one million meters, or one thousand
kilometers.

MEGAMPERE
Meg`am`père", n. Etym: [Mega- + ampère.] (Elec.)

Defn: A million ampères.

MEGAPHONE
Meg"a*phone, n. Etym: [Mega- + Gr.

Defn: A device to magnify sound, or direct it in a given direction in
a greater volume, as a very large funnel used as an ear trumpet or as
a speaking trumpet.

MEGAPHYTON
Me*gaph"y*ton, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. me`gas great + fyto`n plant.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of tree ferns with large, two-ranked leaves,
or fronds.

MEGAPODE
Meg"a*pode, n. Etym: [Mega- + Gr. poy`s, podo`s, foot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large-footed, gallinaceous birds
of the genera Megapodius and Leipoa, inhabiting Australia and other
Pacific islands. See Jungle fowl (b) under Jungle, and Leipoa.

MEGAPOLIS
Me*gap"o*lis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. me`gas great + po`lis city.]

Defn: A metropolis. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

MEGARIAN; MEGARIC
Me*ga"ri*an, Me*gar"ic, a.

Defn: Belonging, or pertaining, to Megara, a city of ancient Greece.
Megarian, or Megaric, school, a school of philosophy established at
Megara, after the death of Socrates, by his disciples, and remarkable
for its logical subtlety.

MEGASCOPE
Meg"a*scope, n. Etym: [Mega- + -scope: cf. F. mégascope.]

Defn: A modification of the magic lantern, used esp. for throwing a
magnified image of an opaque object on a screen, solar or artificial
light being used.

MEGASCOPIC; MEGASCOPICAL
Meg`a*scop"ic, Meg`a*scop"ic*al, a.

1. (Physics) Of or pertaining to the megascope or the projection upon
a screen of images of opaque objects.
 (b) Enlarged or magnified; -- said of images or of photographic
pictures, etc.

2. (Geol.) Large enough to be seen; --said of the larger structural
features and components of rocks which do not require the use of the
microscope to be perceived. Opposed to microscopic.

MEGASEME
Meg"a*seme, a. Etym: [Mega- + Gr. mégasème.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having the orbital index relatively large; having the orbits
narrow transversely; -- opposed to microseme.

MEGASS; MEGASSE
Me"gass", Me*gasse", n.

Defn: See Bagasse.

MEGASTHENE
Meg"as*thene, n. Etym: [Gr. me`gas great + sthe`nos strength.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group which includes the higher orders of mammals,
having a large size as a typical characteristic.

MEGASTHENIC
Meg`as*then"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a typically large size; belonging to the megasthenes.

MEGASTOME
Meg"a*stome, n. Etym: [Gr. me`gas great + sto`ma mouth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of univalve shells, having a large aperture or
mouth.

MEGATHERE; MEGATHERIUM
Meg"a*there, Meg`a*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. megatherium, fr. Gr.
me`gas great + thyri`on beast.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct gigantic quaternary mammal, allied to the ant-eaters
and sloths. Its remains are found in South America.

MEGATHEROID
Meg`a*the"roid, n. Etym: [Megatherium + -oid.] (Paleon.)

Defn: One of a family of extinct edentates found in America. The
family includes the megatherium, the megalonyx, etc.

MEGAVOLT
Meg`a*volt", n. Etym: [Mega- + volt.] (Elec.)

Defn: One of the larger measures of electro-motive force, amounting
to one million volts.

MEGAWEBER
Meg`a*we"ber, n. Etym: [Mega- + weber.] (Elec.)

Defn: A million webers.

MEGERG
Meg"erg`, n. Etym: [Mega- + erg.] (Physics)

Defn: One of the larger measures of work, amounting to one million
ergs; -- called also megalerg.

MEGILP; MEGILPH
Me*gilp", Me*gilph", n. (Paint.)

Defn: A gelatinous compound of linseed oil and mastic varnish, used
by artists as a vehicle for colors. [Written also magilp, and
magilph.]

MEGOHM
Meg"ohm", n. Etym: [Mega- + ohm.] (Elec.)

Defn: One of the larger measures of electrical resistance, amounting
to one million ohms.

MEGRIM
Me"grim, n. Etym: [OE. migrim, migrene, F. migraine, LL. hemigrania,
L. hemicrania, hemicranium, Gr. Hemi- and Cranium, and cf.
Hemicrania, Migraine.]

1. A kind of sick or nevrous headache, usually periodical and
confined to one side of the head.

2. A fancy; a whim; a freak; a humor; esp., in the plural, lowness of
spirits.
These are his megrims, firks, and melancholies. Ford.

3. pl. (Far.)

Defn: A sudden vertigo in a horse, succeeded sometimes by
unconsciousness, produced by an excess of blood in the brain; a mild
form of apoplexy. Youatt.

MEGRIM
Me"grim, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The British smooth sole, or scaldfish (Psetta arnoglossa).

MEIBOMIAN
Mei*bo"mi*an, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Meibomius. Meibomian
glands, the slender sebaceous glands of the eyelids, which discharge,
through minute orifices in the edges of the lids, a fatty secretion
serving to lubricate the adjacent parts.

MEINE
Meine, v. t.

Defn: See Menge.

MEINE; MEINY
Mein"e, Mein"y, (, n. Etym: [OF. maisniée, maisnie. See Menial.]

1. A family, including servants, etc.; household; retinue; train.
[Obs.] Chaucer. Shak.

2. Company; band; army. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MEIOCENE
Mei"o*cene, a. (Geol.)

Defn: See Miocene.

MEIONITE
Mei"o*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A member of the scapolite, group, occuring in glassy crystals
on Monte Somma, near Naples.

MEIOSIS
Mei*o"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Meionite.] (Rhet.)

Defn: Diminution; a species of hyperbole, representing a thing as
being less than it really is.

MEIOSTEMONOUS
Mei`o*stem"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having fever stamens than the parts of the corolla.

MEISTERSINGER
Meis"ter*sing`er, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: See Mastersinger.

MEKHITARIST
Mekh"i*tar*ist, n. (Ecc. Hist.)

Defn: See Mechitarist.

MELACONITE
Me*lac"o*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: An earthy black oxide of copper, arising from the decomposition
of other ores.

MELADA; MELADO
Me*la"da, Me*la"do, n. Etym: [Sp., prop. p. p. of melar to sugar,
candy, fr. L. mel honey. See Molasses.]

Defn: A mixture of sugar and molasses; crude sugar as it comes from
the pans without being drained.

MELAENA
Me*læ"na, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A discharge from the bowels of black matter, consisting of
altered blood.

MELAIN
Mel"ain, n. Etym: [See Melna.]

Defn: The dark coloring matter of the liquid of the cuttlefish.

MELAINOTYPE
Me*lai"no*type, n.

Defn: See Melanotype.

MELAM
Me"lam, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mélam.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white or buff-colored granular powder,

MELAMINE
Me*lam"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A strong nitrogenous base, C3H6N6, produced from several
cyanogen compounds, and obtained as a white crystalline substance, --
formerly supposed to be produced by the decomposition of melam.
Called also cyanuramide.

MELAMPODE
Mel"am*pode, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The black hellebore. [Obs.] Spenser.

MELAMPYRIN; MELAMPYRITE
Mel`am*py"rin, Mel`am*py"rite, n. Etym: [NL. Melampyrum cowwheat; Gr.
(Chem.)

Defn: The saccharine substance dulcite; -- so called because found in
the leaves of cowwheat (Melampyrum). See Dulcite.

MELANAEMIA
Mel`a*næ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition in which the blood contains black pigment
either floating freely or imbedded in the white blood corpuscles.

MELANAGOGUE
Me*lan"a*gogue, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine supposed to expel black bile or choler. [Obs.]

MELANCHOLIA
Mel`an*cho"li*a, n. Etym: [L. See Melancholy.] (Med.)

Defn: A kind of mental unsoundness characterized by extreme
depression of spirits, ill-grounded fears, delusions, and brooding
over one particular subject or train of ideas.

MELANCHOLIAN
Mel`an*cho"li*an, n.

Defn: A person affected with melancholy; a melancholic. [Obs.] Dr. J.
Scott.

MELANCHOLIC
Mel"an*chol`ic, a. Etym: [L. melancholicus, Gr. mélancholique.]

Defn: Given to melancholy; depressed; melancholy; dejected; unhappy.
Just as the melancholic eye Sees fleets and armies in the sky. Prior.

MELANCHOLIC
Mel"an*chol`ic, n. [Obs.]

1. One affected with a gloomy state of mind. J. Spenser.

2. A gloomy state of mind; melancholy. Clarendon.

MELANCHOLILY
Mel"an*chol`i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a melancholy manner.

MELANCHOLINESS
Mel"an*chol`i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being melancholy. Hallywell.

MELANCHOLIOUS
Mel`an*cho"li*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. melancholieux.]

Defn: Melancholy. [R.] Milton.

MELANCHOLIST
Mel"an*chol*ist, n.

Defn: One affected with melancholy or dejection. [Obs.] Glanvill.

MELANCHOLIZE
Mel"an*cho*lize, v. i.

Defn: To become gloomy or dejected in mind. Barrow.

MELANCHOLIZE
Mel"an*cho*lize, v. t.

Defn: To make melancholy.

MELANCHOLY
Mel"an*chol*y, n. Etym: [OE. melancolie, F. mélancolie, L.
melancholia, fr. Gr. Malice, and 1st Gall.]

1. Depression of spirits; a gloomy state continuing a considerable
time; deep dejection; gloominess. Shak.

2. Great and continued depression of spirits, amounting to mental
unsoundness; melancholia.

3. Pensive maditation; serious thoughtfulness. [Obs.] "Hail, divinest
Melancholy !" Milton.

4. Ill nature. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MELANCHOLY
Mel"an*chol*y, a.

1. Depressed in spirits; dejected; gloomy dismal. Shak.

2. Producing great evil and grief; causing dejection; calamitous;
afflictive; as, a melancholy event.

3. Somewhat deranged in mind; having the jugment impaired. [Obs.] Bp.
Reynolds.

4. Favorable to meditation; somber.
A pretty, melancholy seat, well wooded and watered. Evelin.

Syn.
 -- Gloomy; sad; dispirited; low-spirited; downhearted; unhappy;
hypochondriac; disconsolate; heavy, doleful; dismal; calamitous;
afflictive.

MELANCONIACEAE
Mel`an*co`ni*a"ce*æ, n. pl. [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A family of fungi constituting the order Melanconiales. --
Mel`an*co`ni*a"ceous (#), a.

MELANCONIALES
Mel`an*co`ni*a"les, n. pl. [NL., fr. Melanconium, name of the typical
genus, fr. Gr.  black +  dust, in allusion to the dark spores.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The smallest of the three orders of Fungi Imperfecti, including
those with no asci nor pycnidia, but as a rule having the spores in
cavities without special walls. They cause many of the plant diseases
known as anthracnose.

MELANESIAN
Mel`a*ne"sian, a. Etym: [Gr. Melanesia was so called from the dark
complexion of the natives.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Melanesia.

MELANGE
Mé`lange", n. Etym: [F. See Mell, Meddle.]

Defn: A mixture; a medley.

MELANIAN
Me*la"ni*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a family of fresh-water pectinibranchiate mollusks,
having a turret-shaped shell.

MELANIC
Me*lan"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Melanotic.

2. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the black-haired races. Prichard.

MELANILINE
Me*lan"i*line, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A complex nitrogenous hydrocarbon obtained artificially (as by
the action of cyanogen chloride on aniline) as a white, crystalline
substance; -- called also diphenyl guanidin.

MELANIN
Mel"a*nin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A black pigment found in the pigment-bearing cells of the skin
(particularly in the skin of the negro), in the epithelial cells of
the external layer of the retina (then called fuscin), in the outer
layer of the choroid, and elsewhere. It is supposed to be derived
from the decomposition of hemoglobin.

MELANISM
Mel"a*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. , , black.]

1. An indue development of dark-colored pigment in the skin or its
appendages; -- the opposite of albinism.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A disease; black jaundice. See Mel.

MELANISTIC
Mel`a*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Affected with melanism; of the nature of melanism.

MELANITE
Mel"a*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. mélanite.] (Min.)

Defn: A black variety of garnet.

MELANOCHROI
Mel`a*noch"ro*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Melanochroic.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: A group of the human race, including the dark whites.

MELANOCHROIC
Mel`a*no*chro"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having a dark complexion; of or pertaining to the Melanochroi.

MELANOCHROITE
Mel`a*no*chro"ite, n. Etym: [See Melanochroic.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a red, or brownish or yellowish red color. It is a
chromate of lead; -- called also phoenicocroite.

MELANOCOMOUS
Mel`a*noc"o*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having very dark or black hair; black-haired. Prichard.

MELANOMA
Mel`a*no"ma, n.; L. pl. -nomata (#). [NL.; Gr. , , black + -oma.]
(Med.)
 (a) A tumor containing dark pigment.
 (b) Development of dark-pigmented tumors.

MELANORRHOEA
Mel`a*nor*rhoe"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An East Indian genus of large trees. Melanorrhoea usitatissima
is the lignum-vitæ of Peru, and yelds a valuable black varnish.

MELANOSCOPE
Me*lan"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Opt.)

Defn: An instrument containing a combination of colored glasses such
that they transmit only red light, so that objects of other colors,
as green leaves, appear black when seen through it. It is used for
viewing colored flames, to detect the presence of potassium, lithium,
etc., by the red light which they emit.

MELANOSIS
Mel`a*no"sis, Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The morbid deposition of black matter, often of a malignant
character, causing pigmented tumors.

MELANOSPERM
Me*lan"o*sperm, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An alga of any kind that produces blackish spores, or seed
dust. The melanosperms include the rockweeds and all kinds of kelp.
 -- Mel`a*no*sper"mous, a.

MELANOTIC
Mel`a*not"ic

Defn: , Melanistic.

MELANOTYPE
Me*lan"o*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.] (Photog.)

Defn: A positive picture produced with sensitized collodion on a
smooth surface of black varnish, coating a thin plate of iron; also,
the process of making such a picture. [Written also melainotype.]

MELANTERITE
Me*lan"ter*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous sulphate of iron of a green color and vitreous
luster; iron vitriol.

MELANURE
Mel"a*nure, n. Etym: [NL. melanurus, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fish of the Mediterranean; a gilthead. See Gilthead
(a).

MELANURIC
Mel`a*nu"ric, a. Etym: [Melam + urea.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid
obtained by decomposition of melam, or of urea, as a white
crystalline powder; -- called also melanurenic acid.

MELAPHYRE
Mel"a*phyre, n. Etym: [F., fr. Gr. phyre porphyry.] (Min.)

Defn: Any one of several dark-colored augitic, eruptive rocks allied
to basalt.

MELASMA
Me*las"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A dark discoloration of the skin, usually local; as, Addison's
melasma, or Addison's disease.
 -- Me*las"mic, a.

MELASSES
Me*las"ses, n.

Defn: See Molasses.

MELASSIC
Me*las"sic, a. Etym: [See Molasses.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from molasses
or glucose, and probably identical with saccharic acid. See
Saccharic.

MELASTOMA
Me*las"to*ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of evergreen tropical shrubs; -- so called from the
black berries of some species, which stain the mouth.

MELASTOMACEOUS
Mel`a*sto*ma"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to the order of which Melastoma is the type.

MELCHITE
Mel"chite, n. Etym: [Heb. melek king.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect, chiefly in Syria and Egypt, which acknowledges
the authority of the pope, but adheres to the liturgy and ceremonies
of the Eastern Church.

MELD
Meld, v. t. & i.  [imp. & p. p. Melded; p. pr. & vb. n. Melding.] [G.
melden to announce.] (Card Playing)

Defn: In the game of pinochle, to declare or announce for a score;
as, to meld a sequence.

MELD
Meld, n. (Card Playing)

Defn: Any combination or score which may be declared, or melded, in
pinochle.

MELEAGRINE
Mel`e*a"grine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Meleagris.

MELEAGRIS
Mel`e*a"gris, n. Etym: [L., the Guinea fowl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of American gallinaceous birds, including the common
and the wild turkeys.

MELEE
Mê`lée", n. Etym: [F., fr. mêler to mix. See Meddle, Mell, and cf.
Mellay.]

Defn: A fight in which the combatants are mingled

MELENA
Me*le"na, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Mel.

MELENE
Mel"ene, n. Etym: [Melissic + ethylene.] (Chem.)

Defn: An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C30H60, of the ethylene series,
obtained from beeswax as a white, scaly, crystalline wax; -- called
also melissene, and melissylene.

MELENITE
Mel"e*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. me`li honey.]

Defn: An explosive of great destructive power; -- so called from its
color, which resembles honey.

MELETIN
Mel"e*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Quercitin.

MELEZITOSE
Me*lez"i*tose`, n. Etym: [F. mélèze the larch + melitose.] (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose, extracted from the
manna of the larch (Larix). [Written also melicitose.]

MELIACEOUS
Me`li*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to a natural order (Meliacæ) of plants of which the
genus Melia is the type. It includes the mahogany and the Spanish
cedar.

MELIBEAN; MELIBOEAN
Mel`i*be"an, Mel`i*boe"an, a. Etym: [From L. Meliboeus, one of the
interlocutors in Virgil's first Eclogue.] (Rhet.)

Defn: Alternately responsive, as verses.

MELIC
Mel"ic, Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to song; lyric; tuneful.

MELICEROUS
Me*lic"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. meliceris a kind of tumor, fr. Gr. me`li
honey + (Med.)

Defn: Consisting of or containing matter like honey; -- said of
certain encysted tumors.

MELIC GRASS
Mel"ic grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of grasses (Melica) of little agricultural importance.

MELICOTOON
Mel`i*co*toon", n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Melocoton.

MELICRATORY
Me*lic"ra*to*ry, n. Etym: [Gr. meli`kraton.]

Defn: A meadlike drink. [Obs.]

MELILITE
Mel"i*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. me`li honey + -lite; cf. F. mélilithe.]
(Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in small yellow crystals, found in the
lavas (melilite basalt) of Vesuvius, and elsewhere. [Written also
mellilite.]

MELILOT
Mel"i*lot, n. Etym: [F. mélilot, L. melilotus, fr. Gr. me`li honey +
(Bot.)

Defn: Any species of Melilotus, a genus of leguminous herbs having a
vanillalike odor; sweet clover; hart's clover. The blue melilot
(Melilotus cærulea) is used in Switzerland to give color and flavor
to sapsago cheese.

MELILOTIC
Mel`i*lot"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sweet clover or meliot;
specifically, designating an acid of the aromatic series, obtained
from melilot as a white crystalline substance.

MELINITE
Mé"lin*ite, n. [F.] (Chem.)

Defn: A high explosive similar to lyddite, consisting principally of
picric acid, used in the French military service.

MELIORATE
Mel"io*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Meliorated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Meliorating.] Etym: [L. melioratus, p. p. of meliorare to meliorate,
fr. melior better; akin to Gr. Ameliorate.]

Defn: To make better; to improve; to ameliorate; to soften; to make
more tolerable.
Nature by art we nobly meliorate. Denham.
The pure and bening light of revelation has had a meliorating
influence on mankind. Washington.

MELIORATE
Mel"io*rate, v. i.

Defn: To grow better.

MELIORATER
Mel"io*ra`ter, n.

Defn: Same as Meliorator.

MELIORATION
Mel`io*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. melioratio.]

Defn: The act or operation of meliorating, or the state of being
meliorated; improvement. Bacon.

MELIORATOR
Mel"io*ra`tor, n.

Defn: One who meliorates.

MELIORISM
Mel"io*rism, n. Etym: [From L. melior better.]

Defn: The doctrine that there is a tendency throughout nature toward
improvement. J. Sully.

MELIORITY
Mel*ior"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. melioritas, fr. L. melior. See
Meliorate.]

Defn: The state or quality of being better; melioration. [Obs.]
Bacon.

MELIPHAGAN
Me*liph"a*gan, a. Etym: [Gr. me`li honey + (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the genus Meliphaga.

MELIPHAGAN
Me*liph"a*gan, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Meliphaga and allied genera; a honey
eater; -- called also meliphagidan.

MELIPHAGOUS
Me*liph"a*gous, a. Etym: [See Meliphagan.] (Zool.)

Defn: Eating, or feeding upon, honey.

MELISMA
Me*lis"ma, n.; pl. Melismata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Mus.)
(a) A piece of melody; a song or tune, -- as opposed to recitative or
musical declamation.
(b) A grace or embellishment.

MELISSA
Me*lis"sa, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. me`lissa a bee, honey.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of labiate herbs, including the balm, or bee balm
(Melissa officinalis).

MELISSIC
Me*lis"sic, a. Etym: [Gr. me`lissa a bee, honey.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax; specif., denoting an
acid obtained by oxidation of myricin.

MELISSYL
Me*lis"syl, n. Etym: [Melissic +yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Myricyl.

MELISSYLENE
Me*lis"sy*lene, n. Etym: [Melissic + -yl + -ene.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Melene.

MELITOSE
Mel"i*tose`, n. Etym: [Gr. me`li honey.] (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of sugar isomeric with sucrose, extracted from cotton
seeds and from the so-called Australian manna (a secretion of certain
species of Eucalyptus).

MELL
Mell, v. i. & t. Etym: [F. mêler, OF. meller, mester. See Meddle.]

Defn: To mix; to meddle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MELL
Mell, n. Etym: [See Mellifluous.]

Defn: Honey. [Obs.] Warner.

MELL
Mell, n.

Defn: A mill. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MELLATE
Mel"late, n. Etym: [L. mel, mellis, honey. Cf. Mellitate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A mellitate. [R.]

MELLAY
Mel"lay, n.

Defn: A mêlée; a conflict. Tennyson.

MELLIC
Mel"lic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See Mellitic. [R.]

MELLIFEROUS
Mel*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. mellifer; mel, mellis, honey + ferre to
bear.]

Defn: Producing honey.

MELLIFIC
Mel*lif"ic, a. Etym: [L. mel, mellis, honey + -ficare (in comp.) to
make. See -fy.]

Defn: Producing honey.

MELLIFICATION
Mel`li*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. mellificare to make honey: cf. F.
mellification. See Mellific.]

Defn: The making or production of honey.

MELLIFLUENCE
Mel*lif"lu*ence, n.

Defn: A flow of sweetness, or a sweet, smooth flow.

MELLIFLUENT
Mel*lif"lu*ent, a. Etym: [L. mellifluens. See Mellifluous.]

Defn: Flowing as with honey; smooth; mellifluous.

MELLIFLUENTLY
Mel*lif"lu*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mellifluent manner.

MELLIFLUOUS
Mel*lif"lu*ous, a. Etym: [L. mellifluus; mel, mellis, honey (akin to
Gr. milip) + fluere to flow. See Mildew, Fluent, and cf. Marmalade.]

Defn: Flowing as with honey; smooth; flowing sweetly or smoothly; as,
a mellifluous voice.
 -- Mel*lif"lu*ous*ly, adv.

MELLIGENOUS
Mel*lig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. mel, mellis + -genous.]

Defn: Having the qualities of honey. [R.]

MELLIGO
Mel*li"go, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Honeydew.

MELLILOQUENT
Mel*lil"o*quent, a. Etym: [L. mel, mellis honey + loquens speaking,
p. pr. of loqui to speak.]

Defn: Speaking sweetly or harmoniously.

MELLIPHAGAN
Mel*liph"a*gan, n.

Defn: See Meliphagan.

MELLIPHAGOUS
Mel*liph"a*gous, a.

Defn: See Meliphagous.

MELLITATE
Mel"li*tate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mellitate. See Mellitic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of mellitic acid.

MELLITE
Mel"lite, n. Etym: [L. mel, mellis, honey: cf. F. mellite.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a honey color, found in brown coal, and partly the
result of vegetable decomposition; honeystone. It is a mellitate of
alumina.

MELLITIC
Mel*lit"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mellitique. See Mellite.] (Chem.)
(a) Containing saccharine matter; marked by saccharine secretions;
as, mellitic diabetes.
(b) Pertaining to, or derived from, the mineral mellite. Mellitic
acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline, organic substance, C6(CO2H)6,
occurring naturally in combination with aluminium in the mineral
mellite, and produced artificially by the oxidation of coal,
graphite, etc., and hence called also graphitic acid.

MELLONE
Mel"lone, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow powder, C6H3N9, obtained from certain sulphocyanates.
It has acid properties and forms compounds called mellonides.

MELLONIDE
Mel"lon*ide, n.

Defn: See Mellone.

MELLOW
Mel"low, a. [Compar. Mellower; superl. Mellowest.] Etym: [OE. melwe;
cf. AS. mearu soft, D. murw, Prov. G. mollig soft, D. malsch, and E.
meal flour.]

1. Soft or tender by reason of ripeness; having a tender pulp; as, a
mellow apple.

2. Hence:
(a) Easily worked or penetrated; not hard or rigid; as, a mellow
soil. "Mellow glebe." Drayton
(b) Not coarse, rough, or harsh; subdued; soft; rich; delicate; --
said of sound, color, flavor, style, etc. "The mellow horn."
Wordsworth. "The mellow-tasted Burgundy." Thomson.
The tender flush whose mellow stain imbues Heaven with all freaks of
light. Percival.

3. Well matured; softened by years; genial; jovial.
May health return to mellow age. Wordsworth.
As merry and mellow an old bachelor as ever followed a hound. W.
Irving.

4. Warmed by liquor; slightly intoxicated. Addison.

MELLOW
Mel"low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mellowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mellowing.]

Defn: To make mellow. Shak.
If the Weather prove frosty to mellow it [the ground], they do not
plow it again till April. Mortimer.
The fervor of early feeling is tempered and mellowed by the ripeness
of age. J. C. Shairp.

MELLOW
Mel"low, v. i.

Defn: To become mellow; as, ripe fruit soon mellows. "Prosperity
begins to mellow." Shak.

MELLOWLY
Mel"low*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mellow manner.

MELLOWNESS
Mel"low*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being mellow.

MELLOWY
Mel"low*y, a.

Defn: Soft; unctuous. Drayton.

MELLUCO
Mel*lu"co, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A climbing plant (Ullucus officinalis) of the Andes, having
tuberous roots which are used as a substitute for potatoes.

MELNE
Mel"ne, n.

Defn: A mill. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MELOCOTON; MELOCOTOON
Mel`o*co*ton", Mel`o*co*toon", n. Etym: [Sp. melocoton a kind of
peach tree and its fruit, L. malum cotonium, or cotonea, or Cydonia,
a quince, or quince tree, lit., apple of Cydonia, Gr. Quince.] (Bot.)
(a) A quince.
(b) A kind of peach having one side deep red, and the flesh yellow.
[Written also malacatoon, malacotune.]

MELODEON
Me*lo"de*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Melody, and cf. Odeon.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of small reed organ; -- a portable form of the
seraphine.

2. A music hall.

MELODIC
Me*lod"ic, a. Etym: [L. melodicus, Gr. mélodique.]

Defn: Of the nature of melody; relating to, containing, or made up
of, melody; melodious.

MELODICS
Me*lod"ics, n.

Defn: The department of musical science which treats of the pitch of
tones, and of the laws of melody.

MELODIOGRAPH
Me*lo"di*o*graph, n. Etym: [Melody + -graph.]

Defn: A contrivance for preserving a record of music, by recording
the action of the keys of a musical instrument when played upon.

MELODIOUS
Me*lo"di*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mélodieux. See Melody.]

Defn: Containing, or producing, melody; musical; agreeable to the ear
by a sweet succession of sounds; as, a melodious voice. "A melodious
voice." "A melodious undertone." Longfellow.
 -- Me*lo"di*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Me*lo"di*ous*ness, n.

MELODIST
Mel"o*dist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mélodiste.]

Defn: A composer or singer of melodies.

MELODIZE
Mel"o*dize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Melodized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Melodizing.]

Defn: To make melodious; to form into, or set to, melody.

MELODIZE
Mel"o*dize, v. i.

Defn: To make melody; to compose melodies; to harmonize.

MELODRAMA
Mel`o*dra"ma, n. Etym: [F. mélodrame, fr. Gr.

Defn: Formerly, a kind of drama having a musical accompaniment to
intensify the effect of certain scenes. Now, a drama abounding in
romantic sentiment and agonizing situations, with a musical
accompaniment only in parts which are especially thrilling or
pathetic. In opera, a passage in which the orchestra plays a somewhat
descriptive accompaniment, while the actor speaks; as, the melodrama
in the gravedigging scene of Beethoven's "Fidelio".

MELODRAMATIC
Mel`o*dra*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mélodramatique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to melodrama; like or suitable to a melodrama;
unnatural in situation or action.
 -- Mel`o*dra*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

MELODRAMATIST
Mel`o*dram"a*tist, n.

Defn: One who acts in, or writes, melodramas.

MELODRAME
Mel"o*drame, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Melodrama.

MELODY
Mel"o*dy, n.; pl. Melodies. Etym: [OE. melodie, F. mélodie, L.
melodia, fr. Gr. Ode.]

1. A sweet or agreeable succession of sounds.
Lulled with sound of sweetest melody. Shak.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A rhythmical succession of single tones, ranging for the most
part within a given key, and so related together as to form a musical
whole, having the unity of what is technically called a musical
thought, at once pleasing to the ear and characteristic in
expression.

Note: Melody consists in a succession of single tones; harmony is a
consonance or agreement of tones, also a succession of consonant
musical combinations or chords.

3. The air or tune of a musical piece.

Syn.
 -- See Harmony.

MELOE
Mel"o*e, Etym: [ NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of beetles without wings, but having short oval elytra;
the oil beetles. These beetles are sometimes used instead of
cantharides for raising blisters. See Oil beetle, under Oil.

MELOGRAPH
Mel"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph : cf. F. mélographe.]

Defn: Same as Melodiograph.

MELOLONTHIDIAN
Mel`o*lon*thid"i*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beetle of the genus Melolontha, and allied genera. See May
beetle, under May.

MELON
Mel"on, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. melo, for melopepo an apple-shaped
melon, Gr. malum apple. Cf. Marmalade.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The juicy fruit of certain cucurbitaceous plants, as the
muskmelon, watermelon, and citron melon; also, the plant that
produces the fruit.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, ornamental, marine, univalve shell of the genus Melo.
Melon beetle (Zoöl.), a small leaf beetle (Diabrotiea vittata), which
damages the leaves of melon vines.
 -- Melon cactus, Melon thistle. (a) (Bot.) A genus of cactaceous
plants (Melocactus) having a fleshy and usually globose stem with the
surface divided into spiny longitudinal ridges, and bearing at the
top a prickly and woolly crown in which the small pink flowers are
half concealed. M. communis, from the West Indies, is often
cultivated, and sometimes called Turk's cap. (b) The related genus
Mamillaria, in which the stem is tubercled rather than ribbed, and
the flowers sometimes large. See Illust. under Cactus.

MELOPIANO
Mel`o*pi*a"no, n. Etym: [Gr. piano.]

Defn: A piano having a mechanical attachment which enables the player
to prolong the notes at will.

MELOPLASTIC
Mel`o*plas"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to meloplasty, or the artificial formation of
a new cheek.

MELOPLASTY
Mel"o*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Gr. -plasty: cf. F. méloplastie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The process of restoring a cheek which has been destroyed
wholly or in part.

MELOPOEIA
Mel`o*poe"ia, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: The art of forming melody; melody; -- now often used for a
melodic passage, rather than a complete melody.

MELOTYPE
Mel"o*type, n. (Photog.)

Defn: A picture produced by a process in which development after
exposure may be deferred indefinitely, so as to permit transportation
of exposed plates; also, the process itself.

MELPOMENE
Mel*pom"e*ne, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Muse of tragedy.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The eighteenth asteroid.

MELROSE
Mel"rose, n.

Defn: Honey of roses.

MELT
Melt, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See 2d Milt.

MELT
Melt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Melted (obs.) p. p. Molten; p. pr. & vb. n.
Melting.] Etym: [AS. meltan; akin to Gr. malt, and prob. to E. smelt,
v. Smelt, v., Malt, Milt the spleen.]

1. To reduce from a solid to a liquid state, as by heat; to liquefy;
as, to mell wax, tallow, or lead; to melt ice or snow.

2. Hence: To soften, as by a warming or kindly influence; to relax;
to render gentle or susceptible to mild influences; sometimes, in a
bad sense, to take away the firmness of; to weaken.
Thou would'st have . . . melted down thy youth. Shak.
For pity melts the mind to love. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To liquefy; fuse; thaw; mollify; soften.

MELT
Melt, v. i.

1. To be changed from a solid to a liquid state under the influence
of heat; as, butter and wax melt at moderate temperatures.

2. To dissolve; as, sugar melts in the mouth.

3. Hence: To be softened; to become tender, mild, or gentle; also, to
be weakened or subdued, as by fear.
My soul melteth for heaviness. Ps. cxix. 28.
Melting with tenderness and kind compassion. Shak.

4. To lose distinct form or outline; to blend.
The soft, green, rounded hills, with their flowing outlines,
overlapping and melting into each other. J. C. Shairp.

5. To disappear by being dispersed or dissipated; as, the fog melts
away. Shak.

MELTABLE
Melt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being melted.

MELTER
Melt"er

Defn: , One who, or that which, melts.

MELTING
Melt"ing, n.

Defn: Liquefaction; the act of causing (something) to melt, or the
process of becoming melted. Melting point (Chem.), the degree of
temperature at which a solid substance melts or fuses; as, the
melting point of ice is 0º Centigrade or 32º Fahr., that of urea is
132º Centigrade.
 -- Melting pot, a vessel in which anything is melted; a crucible.

MELTING
Melt"ing a.

Defn: Causing to melt; becoming melted; -- used literally or
figuratively; as, a melting heat; a melting appeal; a melting mood.
 -- Melt"ing*ly, adv.

MELTON
Mel"ton, Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A kind of stout woolen cloth with unfinished face and without
raised nap. A commoner variety has a cotton warp.

MELUNGEON
Me*lun"geon, n. [Cf. F. mélanger to mix, mélange a mixture.]

Defn: One of a mixed white and Indian people living in parts of
Tennessee and the Carolinas. They are descendants of early
intermixtures of white settlers with natives. In North Carolina the
Croatan Indians, regarded as descended from Raleigh's lost colony of
Croatan, formerly classed with negroes, are now legally recognized as
distinct.

MEMBER
Mem"ber, v. t. Etym: [See Remember.]

Defn: To remember; to cause to remember; to mention. [Obs.]

MEMBER
Mem"ber, n. Etym: [OE. membre, F. membre, fr. L. membrum; cf. Goth.
mimz flesh, Skr. mamsa.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A part of an animal capable of performing a distinct office; an
organ; a limb.
We have many members in one body, and all members have not the same
office. Rom. xii. 4.

2. Hence, a part of a whole; an independent constituent of a body;
as:
(a) A part of a discourse or of a period or sentence; a clause; a
part of a verse.
(b) (Math.) Either of the two parts of an algebraic equation,
connected by the sign of equality. (c) (Engin.)

Defn: Any essential part, as a post, tie rod, strut, etc., of a
framed structure, as a bridge truss.
(d) (Arch.) Any part of a building, whether constructional, as a
pier, column, lintel, or the like, or decorative, as a molding, or
group of moldings.
(e) One of the persons composing a society, community, or the like;
an individual forming part of an association; as, a member of the
society of Friends. Compression member, Tension member (Engin.), a
member, as a rod, brace, etc., which is subjected to compression or
tension, respectively.

MEMBERED
Mem"bered, a.

1. Having limbs; -- chiefly used in composition.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Having legs of a different tincture from that of the body; --
said of a bird in heraldic representations.

MEMBERSHIP
Mem"ber*ship, n.

1. The state of being a member.

2. The collective body of members, as of a society.

MEMBRAL
Mem"bral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Relating to a member.

MEMBRANACEOUS
Mem`bra*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. membranaceus.]

1. Same as Membranous. Arbuthnot.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Thin and rather soft or pliable, as the leaves of the rose,
peach tree, and aspen poplar.

MEMBRANE
Mem"brane, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. membrana the skin that covers the
separate members of the body, fr. L. membrum. See Member.] (Anat.)

Defn: A thin layer or fold of tissue, usually supported by a fibrous
network, serving to cover or line some part or organ, and often
secreting or absorbing certain fluids.

Note: The term is also often applied to the thin, expanded parts, of
various texture, both in animals and vegetables. Adventitious
membrane, a membrane connecting parts not usually connected, or of a
different texture from the ordinary connection; as, the membrane of a
cicatrix.
 -- Jacob's membrane. See under Retina.
 -- Mucous membranes (Anat.), the membranes lining passages and
cavities which communicate with the exterior, as well as ducts and
receptacles of secretion, and habitually secreting mucus.
 -- Schneiderian membrane. (Anat.) See Schneiderian.
 -- Serous membranes (Anat.) , the membranes, like the peritoneum and
pleura, which line, or lie in, cavities having no obvious outlet, and
secrete a serous fluid.

MEMBRANEOUS
Mem*bra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. membraneus of parchment.]

Defn: See Membranous.

MEMBRANIFEROUS
Mem`bra*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Membrane + -ferous.]

Defn: Having or producing membranes.

MEMBRANIFORM
Mem*bra"ni*form, a. Etym: [Membrane + -form: cf. F. membraniforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a membrane or of parchment.

MEMBRANOLOGY
Mem`bra*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Membrane + -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of membranes.

MEMBRANOUS
Mem"bra*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. membraneux.]

1. Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, membrane; as, a
membranous covering or lining.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Membranaceous. Membranous croup (Med.), true croup. See Croup.

MEMENTO
Me*men"to, n.; pl. Mementos. Etym: [L., remember, be mindful, imper.
of meminisse to remember. See Mention.]

Defn: A hint, suggestion, token, or memorial, to awaken memory; that
which reminds or recalls to memory; a souvenir.
Seasonable mementos may be useful. Bacon.

MEMENTO MORI
Me*men"to mo"ri. [L.]

Defn: Lit., remember to die, i.e., that you must die; a warning to be
prepared for death; an object, as a death's-head or a personal
ornament, usually emblematic, used as a reminder of death.

MEMINNA
Me*min"na, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small deerlet, or chevrotain, of India.

MEMNON
Mem"non, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Antiq.)

Defn: A celebrated Egyptian statue near Thebes, said to have the
property of emitting a harplike sound at sunrise.

MEMOIR; MEMOIRS
Mem"oir, or pl. Mem"oirs, n. Etym: [F. mémoire, m., memorandum, fr.
mémoire, f., memory, L. memoria. See Memory.]

1. A memorial account; a history composed from personal experience
and memory; an account of transactions or events (usually written in
familiar style) as they are remembered by the writer. See History, 2.

2. A memorial of any individual; a biography; often, a biography
written without special regard to method and completeness.

3. An account of something deemed noteworthy; an essay; a record of
investigations of any subject; the journals and proceedings of a
society.

MEMOIRIST
Mem"oir*ist, n.

Defn: A writer of memoirs.

MEMORABILIA
Mem`o*ra*bil"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. memorabilis memorable. See
Memorable.]

Defn: Things remarkable and worthy of remembrance or record; also,
the record of them.

MEMORABILITY
Mem`o*ra*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being memorable.

MEMORABLE
Mem"o*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. memorabilis, fr. memorare to bring to
remembrance, fr. memor mindful, remembering. See Memory, and cf.
Memorabilia.]

Defn: Worthy to be remembered; very important or remarkable.
 -- Mem"o*ra*ble*ness, n.
 -- Mem"o*ra*bly, adv.
Surviving fame to gain, Buy tombs, by books, by memorable deeds. Sir
J. Davies.

MEMORANDUM
Mem`o*ran"dum, n.; pl. E. Memorandums, L. Memoranda. Etym: [L.,
something to be remembered, neut. of memorandus, fut. pass. p. of
memorare. See Memorable.]

1. A record of something which it is desired to remember; a note to
help the memory.
I . . . entered a memorandum in my pocketbook. Guardian.
I wish you would, as opportunity offers, make memorandums of the
regulations of the academies. Sir J. Reynolds.

2. (Law)

Defn: A brief or informal note in writing of some transaction, or an
outline of an intended instrument; an instrument drawn up in a brief
and compendious form. Memorandum check, a check given as an
acknowledgment of indebtedness, but with the understanding that it
will not be presented at bank unless the maker fails to take it up on
the day the debt becomes due. It usually has Mem. written on its
face.

MEMORATE
Mem"o*rate, v. t. Etym: [L. memoratus, p. p. of memorare. See
Memorable.]

Defn: To commemorate. [Obs.]

MEMORATIVE
Mem"o*ra*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mémoratif.]

Defn: Commemorative. [Obs.] Hammond.

MEMORIA
Me*mo"ri*a, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Memory. Memoria technica, technical memory; a contrivance for
aiding the memory.

MEMORIAL
Me*mo"ri*al, a. Etym: [F. mémorial, L. memorialis, fr. memoria. See
Memory.]

1. Serving to preserve remembrance; commemorative; as, a memorial
building.
There high in air, memorial of my name, Fix the smooth oar, and bid
me live to fame. Pope.

2. Contained in memory; as, a memorial possession.

3. Mnemonic; assisting the memory.
This succession of Aspirate, Soft, and Hard, may be expressed by the
memorial word ASH. Skeat.
Memorial Day. Same as Decoration Day. [U.S.]

MEMORIAL
Me*mo"ri*al, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mémorial.]

1. Anything intended to preserve the memory of a person or event;
something which serves to keep something else in remembrance; a
monument. Macaulay.
Churches have names; some as memorials of peace, some of wisdom, some
in memory of the Trinity itself. Hooker.

2. A memorandum; a record. [Obs. or R.] Hayward.

3. A written representation of facts, addressed to the government, or
to some branch of it, or to a society, etc., -- often accompanied
with a petition.

4. Memory; remembrance. [Obs.]
Precious is the memorial of the just. Evelyn.

5. (Diplomacy)

Defn: A species of informal state paper, much used in negotiation.

MEMORIAL DAY
Me*mo"ri*al Day.

Defn: A day, May 30, appointed for commemorating, by decorating their
graves with flowers, by patriotic exercises, etc., the dead soldiers
and sailors who served the Civil War (1861-65) in the United States;
Decoration Day. It is a legal holiday in most of the States. In the
Southern States, the Confederate Memorial Day is: May 30 in Virginia;
April 26 in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi; May 10 in
North Carolina and South Carolina; the second Friday in May in
Tennessee; June 3 in Louisiana. [U. S.]

MEMORIALIST
Me*mo"ri*al*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mémorialiste.]

Defn: One who writes or signs a memorial.

MEMORIALIZE
Me*mo"ri*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Memorialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Memorializing.]

Defn: To address or petition by a memorial; to present a memorial to;
as, to memorialize the legislature. T. Hook.

MEMORIALIZER
Me*mo"ri*al*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who petitions by a memorial. T. Hook.

MEMORIAL ROSE
Memorial rose.

Defn: A Japanese evergreen rose (Rosa wichuraiana) with creeping
branches, shining leaves, and single white flowers. It is often
planted in cemeteries.

MEMORIST
Mem"o*rist, n. Etym: [See Memorize.]

Defn: One who, or that which, causes to be remembered. [Obs.]

MEMORITER
Me*mor"i*ter, adv. Etym: [L., fr. memor mindful. See Memorable.]

Defn: By, or from, memory.

MEMORIZE
Mem"o*rize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Memorized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Memorizing.] Etym: [See Memory.]

1. To cause to be remembered ; hence, to record. [Obs.]
They neglect to memorize their conquest. Spenser.
They meant to . . . memorize another Golgotha. Shak.

2. To commit to memory; to learn by heart.

MEMORY
Mem"o*ry, n.; pl. Memories. Etym: [OE. memorie, OF. memoire, memorie,
F. mémoire, L. memoria, fr. memor mindful; cf. mora delay. Cf. Demur,
Martyr, Memoir, Remember.]

1. The faculty of the mind by which it retains the knowledge of
previous thoughts, impressions, or events.
Memory is the purveyor of reason. Rambler.

2. The reach and positiveness with which a person can remember; the
strength and trustworthiness of one's power to reach and represent or
to recall the past; as, his memory was never wrong.

3. The actual and distinct retention and recognition of past ideas in
the mind; remembrance; as, in memory of youth; memories of foreign
lands.

4. The time within which past events can be or are remembered; as,
within the memory of man.
And what, before thy memory, was done From the begining. Milton.

5. Something, or an aggregate of things, remembered; hence,
character, conduct, etc., as preserved in remembrance, history, or
tradition; posthumous fame; as, the war became only a memory.
The memory of the just is blessed. Prov. x. 7.
That ever-living man of memory, Henry the Fifth. Shak.
The Nonconformists . . . have, as a body, always venerated her
[Elizabeth's] memory. Macaulay.

6. A memorial. [Obs.]
These weeds are memories of those worser hours. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Memory, Remembrance, Recollection, Reminiscence. Memory is the
generic term, denoting the power by which we reproduce past
impressions. Remembrance is an exercise of that power when things
occur spontaneously to our thoughts. In recollection we make a
distinct effort to collect again, or call back, what we know has been
formerly in the mind. Reminiscence is intermediate between
remembrance and recollection, being a conscious process of recalling
past occurrences, but without that full and varied reference to
particular things which characterizes recollection. "When an idea
again recurs without the operation of the like object on the external
sensory, it is remembrance; if it be sought after by the mind, and
with pain and endeavor found, and brought again into view, it is
recollection." Locke. To draw to memory, to put on record; to record.
[Obs.] Chaucer. Gower.

MEMPHIAN
Mem"phi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ancient city of Memphis in Egypt;
hence, Egyptian; as, Memphian darkness.

MEM-SAHIB
Mem"-sa`hib, n. [Hind. mem-sahib; mem (fr. E. ma'am) + Ar. çahib
master. See Sahib.]

Defn: Lady; mistress; -- used by Hindustani-speaking natives in India
in addressing European women.

MEN
Men, n.,

Defn: pl. of Man.

MEN
Men, pron. Etym: [OE. me, men. "Not the plural of man, but a weakened
form of the word man itself." Skeat.]

Defn: A man; one; -- used with a verb in the singular, and
corresponding to the present indefinite one or they. [Obs.] Piers
Plowman.
Men moot give silver to the poure triars. Chaucer.
A privy thief, men clepeth death. Chaucer.

MENACCANITE
Me*nac"can*ite, n. Etym: [From Menaccan, in Cornwall, where it was
first found.] (Min.)

Defn: An iron-black or steel-gray mineral, consisting chiefly of the
oxides of iron and titanium. It is commonly massive, but occurs also
in rhombohedral crystals. Called also titanic iron ore, and ilmenite.

MENACE
Men"ace, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. minaciae threats, menaces, fr. minax, -
acis, projecting, threatening, minae projecting points or pinnacles,
threats. Cf. Amenable, Demean, Imminent, Minatory.]

Defn: The show of an intention to inflict evil; a threat or
threatening; indication of a probable evil or catastrophe to come.
His (the pope's) commands, his rebukes, his menaces. Milman.
The dark menace of the distant war. Dryden.

MENACE
Men"ace, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Menaced (ast); p. pr. & vb. n.
Menacing.] Etym: [OF. menacier, F. menacer. See Menace, n.]

1. To express or show an intention to inflict, or to hold out a
prospect of inflicting, evil or injury upon; to threaten; -- usually
followed by with before the harm threatened; as, to menace a country
with war.
My master . . . did menace me with death. Shak.

2. To threaten, as an evil to be inflicted.
By oath he menaced Revenge upon the cardinal. Shak.

MENACE
Men"ace, v. i.

Defn: To act in threatening manner; to wear a threatening aspect.
Who ever knew the heavens menace so Shak.

MENACER
Men"a*cer, n.

Defn: One who menaces.

MENACINGLY
Men"a*cing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a threatening manner.

MENAGE
Mé`nage", n.

Defn: See Manage.

MENAGE
Mé`nage", n. Etym: [See Menagerie.]

Defn: A collection of animals; a menagerie. [Obs.] Addison.

MENAGERIE
Men*ag"er*ie, n. Etym: [F. ménagerie, fr. ménager to keep house,
ménage household. See Menial, Mansion.]

1. A piace where animals are kept and trained.

2. A collection of wild or exotic animals, kept for exhibition.

MENAGOGUE
Men"a*gogue, n. Etym: [F. ménagogue, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Emmenagogue.

MENAION
Me*na"ion, n.; pl. Menaia (-yå). Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Eccl.)

Defn: A work of twelve volumes, each containing the offices in the
Greek Church for a month; also, each volume of the same. Shipley.

MENALD; MENILD
Men"ald, Men"ild, a.

Defn: Covered with spots; speckled; variegated. [Obs.]

MEND
Mend, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mended; p. pr. & vb. n. Mending.] Etym:
[Abbrev. fr. amend. See Amend.]

1. To repair, as anything that is torn, broken, defaced, decayed, or
the like; to restore from partial decay, injury, or defacement; to
patch up; to put in shape or order again; to re-create; as, to mend a
garment or a machine.

2. To alter for the better; to set right; to reform; hence, to
quicken; as, to mend one's manners or pace.
The best service they could do the state was to mend the lives of the
persons who composed it. Sir W. Temple.

3. To help, to advance, to further; to add to.
Though in some lands the grass is but short, yet it mends garden
herbs and fruit. Mortimer.
You mend the jewel by the wearing it. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To improve; help; better; emend; amend; correct; rectify; reform.

MEND
Mend, v. i.

Defn: To grow better; to advance to a better state; to become
improved. Shak.

MENDABLE
Mend"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being mended.

MENDACIOUS
Men*da"cious, a. Etym: [L. mendax, -acis, lying, cf. mentiri to lie.]

1. Given to deception or falsehood; lying; as, a mendacious person.

2. False; counterfeit; containing falsehood; as, a mendacious
statement.
 -- Men*da"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Men*da"cious*ness, n.

MENDACITY
Men*dac"i*ty, n.; pl. Mendacities. Etym: [L. mendacitas.]

1. The quality or state of being mendacious; a habit of lying.
Macaulay.

2. A falsehood; a lie. Sir T. Browne.

Syn.
 -- Lying; deceit; untruth; falsehood.

MENDELIAN
Men*de"li*an, a. [See Mendel's law.] (Biol.)

Defn: Pert. to Mendel, or to Mendel's law. -- Men*de"li*an*ism (#),
Men*del"ism (#), n.

MENDELIAN CHARACTER
Mendelian character. (Biol.)

Defn: A character which obeys Mendel's law in regard to its
hereditary transmission.

MENDEL'S LAW
Men"del's law.

Defn: A principle governing the inheritance of many characters in
animals and plants, discovered by Gregor J. Mendel (Austrian
Augustinian abbot, 1822-84) in breeding experiments with peas. He
showed that the height, color, and other characters depend on the
presence of determinating factors behaving as units. In any given
germ cell each of these is either present or absent. The following
example (using letters as symbols of the determining factors and
hence also of the individuals possessing them) shows the operation of
the law: Tallness being due to a factor T, a tall plant, arising by
the union in fertilization of two germ cells both bearing this
factor, is TT; a dwarf, being without T, is tt. Crossing these,
crossbreeds, Tt, result (called generation F1). In the formation of
the germ cells of these crossbreeds a process of segregation occurs
such that germ cells, whether male or female, are produced of two
kinds, T and t, in equal numbers. The T cells bear the factor
"tallness," the t cells are devoid of it. The offspring, generation
F2, which arise from the chance union of these germ cells in pairs,
according to the law of probability, are therefore on an average in
the following proportions:

1 TT : 2 Tt : 1 tt;

and thus plants pure in tallness (TT) and dwarfness (tt), as well as
crossbreeds (Tt), are formed by the interbreeding of crossbreeds.
Frequently, as in this example, owning to what is called the
dominance of a factor, the operation of Mendel's law may be
complicated by the fact that when a dominant factor (as T) occurs
with its allelomorph (as t), called recessive, in the crossbreed Tt,
the individual Tt is itself indistinguishable from the pure form TT.
Generation F1, containing only the Tt form, consists entirely of
dominants (tall plants) and generation F2 consists of three dominants
(2 Tt, 1 TT) to one dwarf (tt), which, displaying the feature
suppressed in F1, is called recessive. Such qualitative and numerical
regularity has been proved to exist in regard to very diverse
qualities or characters which compose living things, both wild and
domesticated, such as colors of flowers, of hair or eyes, patterns,
structure, chemical composition, and power of resisting certain
diseases. The diversity of forms produced in crossbreeding by
horticulturists and fanciers generally results from a process of
analytical variation or recombination of the factors composing the
parental types. Purity of type consequently acquires a specific
meaning. An individual is pure in respect of a given character when
it results from the union of two sexual cells both bearing that
character, or both without it.

MENDER
Mend"er, n.

Defn: One who mends or repairs.

MENDIANT
Men"di*ant, n.

Defn: See Mendinant. [Obs.]

MENDICANCY
Men"di*can*cy, n.

Defn: The condition of being mendicant; beggary; begging. Burke.

MENDICANT
Men"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. mendicans, -antis, p. pr. of mendicare to
beg, fr. mendicus beggar, indigent.]

Defn: Practicing beggary; begging; living on alms; as, mendicant
friars. Mendicant orders (R. C. Ch.), certain monastic orders which
are forbidden to acquire landed property and are required to be
supported by alms, esp. the Franciscans, the Dominicans, the
Carmelites, and the Augustinians.

MENDICANT
Men"di*cant, n.

Defn: A beggar; esp., one who makes a business of begging;
specifically, a begging friar.

MENDICATE
Men"di*cate, v. t.& i. Etym: [L. mendicatus, p. p. of mendicare to
beg.]

Defn: To beg. [R.] Johnson.

MENDICATION
Men`di*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act or practice of begging; beggary; mendicancy. Sir T.
Browne.

MENDICITY
Men*dic"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. mendicitas: cf. F. mendicité. See
Mendicant.]

Defn: The practice of begging; the life of a beggar; mendicancy. Rom.
of R.

MENDINANT
Men"di*nant, n.

Defn: A mendicant or begging friar. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MENDMENT
Mend"ment, n.

Defn: Amendment. [Obs.]

MENDOLE
Men"dole, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mendol, mendole.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cackerel.

MENDREGAL
Men"dre*gal, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Medregal.

MENDS
Mends, n.

Defn: See Amends. [Obs.] Shak.

MENGE
Menge, v. i. [imp. Mente, Meinte; p. p. Ment, Meint.] Etym: [See
Mingle.]

Defn: To mix. [Obs.] Spenser.

MENHADEN
Men*ha"den, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An American marine fish of the Herring familt (Brevoortia
tyrannus), chiefly valuable for its oil and as a component of
fertilizers; -- called also mossbunker, bony fish, chebog, pogy,
hardhead, whitefish, etc.

MENHIR
Men"hir, n. Etym: [F. Armor. men stone + hir high.]

Defn: A large stone set upright in olden times as a memorial or
monument. Many, of unknown date, are found in Brittany and throughout
Northern Europe.

MENIAL
Men"ial, a. Etym: [OE. meneal, fr. meine, maine, household, OF.
maisniée, maisnie, LL. mansionaticum. See Mansion, and cf. Meine, n.,
Meiny.]

1. Belonging to a retinue or train of servants; performing servile
office; serving.
Two menial dogs before their master pressed. Dryden.

2. Pertaining to servants, esp. domestic servants; servile; low;
mean. " Menial offices." Swift.

MENIAL
Men"ial, n.

1. A domestic servant or retainer, esp. one of humble rank; one
employed in low or servile offices.

2. A person of a servile character or disposition.

MENIERE'S DISEASE
Mé`nière's" dis*ease". (Med.)

Defn: A disease characterized by deafness and vertigo, resulting in
incoördination of movement. It is supposed to depend upon a morbid
condition of the semicircular canals of the internal ear. Named after
Ménière, a French physician.

MENILITE
Men"i*lite, n. Etym: [F. ménilite; -- so called because it is found
at Ménilmontant, near Paris.] (Min.)

Defn: See Opal.

MENINGEAL
Me*nin"ge*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the meninges.

MENINGES
Me*nin"ges, n. pl.; sing. Meninx (. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The three membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord; the
pia mater, dura mater, and arachnoid membrane.

MENINGITIS
Men`in*gi"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Meninges, and -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the membranes of the brain or spinal cord.
Cerebro-spinal meningitis. See under Cerebro-spinal.

MENISCAL
Me*nis"cal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or having the form of, a meniscus.

MENISCOID
Me*nis"coid, a. Etym: [Meniscus + -oid.]

Defn: Concavo-convex, like a meniscus.

MENISCUS
Me*nis"cus, n.; pl. L. Menisci (-si), E. Meniscuses. Etym: [NL., from
Gr. mh`nh the moon.]

1. A crescent.

2. (Opt.)

Defn: A lens convex on one side and concave on the other.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: An interarticular synovial cartilage or membrane; esp., one of
the intervertebral synovial disks in some parts of the vertebral
column of birds. Converging meniscus, Diverging meniscus. See Lens.

MENISPERMACEOUS
Men`i*sper*ma"ceous, a. Etym: [Gr. mh`nh the moon + spe`rma seed.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to a natural order (Menispermaceæ) of climbing
plants of which moonseed (Menispermum) is the type.

MENISPERMIC
Men`i*sper"mic (, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, moonseed (Menispermum), or
other plants of the same family, as the Anamirta Cocculus.

MENISPERMINE
Men`i*sper"mine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ménispermine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid distinct from picrotoxin and obtained from the
cocculus indicus (the fruit of Anamirta Cocculus, formerly
Menispermum Cocculus) as a white, crystalline, tasteless powder; --
called also menispermina.

MENIVER
Men"i*ver, n. Etym: [OF. menuver, menuveir, menuvair, a grayish fur;
menu small + vair a kind of fur. See Minute, a., and Vair.]

Defn: Same as Miniver.

MENNONIST; MENNONITE
Men"non*ist, Men"non*ite, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a small denomination of Christians, so called from Menno
Simons of Friesland, their founder. They believe that the New
Testament is the only rule of faith, that there is no original sin,
that infants should not be baptized, and that Christians ought not to
take oath, hold office, or render military service.

MENOBRANCH; MENOBRANCHUS
Men"o*branch, Men`o*bran"chus, n. Etym: [NL. menobranchus, fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A large aquatic American salamander of the genus Necturus,
having permanent external gills.

MENOLOGIUM; MENOLOGY
Men`o*lo"gi*um, Me*nol"o*gy, n.; pl. L. Menologia, E. Menologies.
Etym: [NL. menologium, fr. Gr. ménologe.]

1. A register of months. Bp. Stillingfleet.

2. (Gr. Church)

Defn: A brief calendar of the lives of the saints for each day in the
year, or a simple remembrance of those whose lives are not written.

MENOPAUSE
Men"o*pause, n. Etym: [Gr. Menses.] (Med.)

Defn: The period of natural cessation of menstruation. See Change of
life, under Change.

MENOPOMA; MENOPOME
Men`o*po"ma, Men"o*pome, n. Etym: [NL. menopoma, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hellbender.

MENORRHAGIA
Men`or*rha"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) Profuse menstruation.
(b) Any profuse bleeding from the uterus; Metrorrhagia.

MENOSTASIS
Me*nos"ta*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. mh`n month + 'istan`nai to
stop.] (Med.)

Defn: Stoppage of the mences.

MENOSTATION
Men`os*ta"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Menostasis.

MENOW
Men"ow, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A minnow.

MEN-PLEASER
Men"-pleas`er, n.

Defn: One whose motive is to please men or the world, rather than
God. Eph. vi. 6.

MENSAL
Men"sal, a. Etym: [L. mensalis, fr. mensa table.]

Defn: Belonging to the table; transacted at table; as, mensa
conversation.

MENSAL
Men"sal, a. Etym: [L. mensis month.]

Defn: Occurring once in a month; monthly.

MENSE
Mense, n. Etym: [OE. menske, AS. mennisc human, man. See Man.]

Defn: Manliness; dignity; comeliness; civility. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
-- Mense"ful, a.
 -- Mense"less, a.

MENSE
Mense, v. t.

Defn: To grace. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

MENSES
Men"ses, n. pl. Etym: [L. mensis month, pl. menses months, and the
monthly courses of women. Cf. Month.] (Med.)

Defn: The catamenial or menstrual discharge, a periodic flow of blood
or bloody fluid from the uterus or female generative organs.

MENSTRUAL
Men"stru*al, a. Etym: [L. menstrualis: cf. F. menstruel. See
Menstruous.]

1. Recurring once a month; monthly; gone through in a month; as, the
menstrual revolution of the moon; pertaining to monthly changes; as,
the menstrual equation of the sun's place.

2. Of or pertaining to the menses; as, menstrual discharges; the
menstrual period.

3. Of or pertaining to a menstruum. Bacon.

MENSTRUANT
Men"stru*ant, a. Etym: [L. menstruans, p. pr. of menstruare to have a
monthly term, fr. menstruus. See Menstruous.]

Defn: Subject to monthly flowing or menses.

MENSTRUATE
Men"stru*ate, a.

Defn: Menstruous. [Obs.]

MENSTRUATE
Men"stru*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Menstruated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Menstruating.]

Defn: To discharge the menses; to have the catamenial flow.

MENSTRUATION
Men`stru*a"tion, n.

Defn: The discharge of the menses; also, the state or the period of
menstruating.

MENSTRUE
Men"strue, n. Etym: [Cf. F. menstrues. See Menstruous.]

Defn: The menstrual flux; menses. [Obs.]

MENSTRUOUS
Men"stru*ous, a. Etym: [L. menstruus, fr. mensis month. Cf.
Menstruum.]

1. Having the monthly flow or discharge; menstruating.

2. Of or pertaining tj the monthly flow; catamenial.

MENSTRUUM
Men"stru*um, n.; pl. E. Menstruums, L. Menstrua. Etym: [L. menstruus.
See Menstruous.]

Defn: Any substance which dissolves a solid body; a solvent.
The proper menstruum to dissolve metal. Bacon.
All liquors are called menstruums which are used as dissolvents, or
to extract the virtues of ingredients by infusion or decoction.
Quincy.

Note: The use is supposed to have originated in some notion of the
old chemists about the influence of the moon in the preparation of
dissolvents. Johnson.

MENSURABILITY
Men`su*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mensurabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being mensurable.

MENSURABLE
Men"su*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. mensurabilis, fr. mensurare to measure,
fr. mensura measure: cf. F. mensurable. See Measurable, Measure.]

Defn: Capable of being measured; measurable.

MENSURABLENESS
Men"su*ra*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mensurable; measurableness.

MENSURAL
Men"su*ral, a. Etym: [L. mensuralis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to measure.

MENSURATE
Men"su*rate, v. t. Etym: [L. mensuratus, p. p. of mensurare. See
Measure, v.]

Defn: To measure. [Obs.]

MENSURATION
Men`su*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. mensuratio : cf. F. mensuration.]

1. The act, process, or art, of measuring.

2. That branch of applied geometry which gives rules for finding the
length of lines, the areas of surfaces, or the volumes of solids,
from certain simple data of lines and angles.

-MENT
-ment, Etym: [F. -ment, L. -mentum.]

Defn: A suffix denoting that which does a thing; an act or process;
the result of an act or process; state or condition; as, aliment,
that which nourishes, ornament, increment; fragment, piece broken,
segment; abridgment, act of abridging, imprisonment, movement,
adjournment; amazement, state of being amazed, astonishment.

MENT
Ment, p. p.

Defn: of Menge.

MENTAGRA
Men"ta*gra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. mentum chin + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Sycosis.

MENTAL
Men"tal, a. Etym: [L. mentum the chin.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the chin; genian; as, the mental nerve; the
mental region.

MENTAL
Men"tal, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A plate or scale covering the mentum or chin of a fish or
reptile.

MENTAL
Men"tal, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. mentalis, fr. mens, mentis, the mind;
akin to E. mind. See Mind.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mind; intellectual; as, mental
faculties; mental operations, conditions, or exercise.
What a mental power This eye shoots forth! Shak.
Mental alienation, insanity.
 -- Mental arithmetic, the art or practice of solving arithmetical
problems by mental processes, unassisted by written figures.

MENTALITY
Men*tal"i*ty, n.

Defn: Quality or state of mind. "The same hard mentality." Emerson.

MENTALLY
Men"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: In the mind; in thought or meditation; intellectually; in idea.

MENTHA
Men"tha, n. Etym: [L. See Mint the plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: A widely distributed genus of fragrant herbs, including the
peppermint, spearmint, etc. The plants have small flowers, usually
arranged in dense axillary clusters.

MENTHENE
Men"thene, n. Etym: [Menthol + terpene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless liquid hydrocarbon resembling oil of turpentine,
obtained by dehydrating menthol. It has an agreeable odor and a
cooling taste.

MENTHOL
Men"thol, n. Etym: [Mentha + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, aromatic substance resembling camphor,
extracted from oil of peppermint (Mentha); -- called also mint
camphor or peppermint camphor.

MENTHYL
Men"thyl, n. Etym: [Mentha + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical forming the base of menthol.

MENTICULTURAL
Men`ti*cul"tur*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to mental culture; serving to improve or
strengthen the mind. [R.]

MENTION
Men"tion, n. Etym: [OE. mencioun, F. mention, L. mentio, from the
root of meminisse to remember. See Mind.]

Defn: A speaking or notice of anything, -- usually in a brief or
cursory manner. Used especially in the phrase to make mention of.
I will make mention of thy righteousness. Ps. lxxi. 16.
And sleep in dull, cold marble, where no mention Of me more must be
heard of. Shak.

MENTION
Men"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mentioned; p. pr. & vb. n. Mentioning.]
Etym: [Cf. F. mentionner.]

Defn: To make mention of; to speak briefly of; to name.
I will mention the loving-kindnesses of the Lord. Is. lxiii. 7.

MENTIONABLE
Men"tion*a*ble, a.

Defn: Fit to be mentioned.

MENTOMECKELIAN
Men`to*meck*e"li*an, a. Etym: [1st mental + Meckelian.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the chin and lower jaw.
 -- n.

Defn: The bone or cartilage forming the anterior extremity of the
lower jaw in some adult animals and the young of others.

MENTOR
Men"tor, n. Etym: [From Mentor, the counselor of Telemachus, Gr.
Monitor.]

Defn: A wise and faithful counselor or monitor.

MENTORIAL
Men*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [From Mentor.]

Defn: Containing advice or admonition.

MENTUM
Men"tum, n. Etym: [L., chin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The front median plate of the labium in insects. See Labium.

MENU
Me*nu", n. Etym: [F., slender, thin, minute. See 4th Minute.]

Defn: The details of a banquet; a bill of fare.

MENUSE
Me"nuse, v. i.

Defn: See Amenuse. [Obs.]

MEOW
Me*ow", v. i. & n.

Defn: See 6th and 7th Mew.

MEPHISTOPHELIAN
Meph`is*to*phe"li*an ( or ), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the devil Mephistopheles, "a
crafty, scoffing, relentless fiend;" devilish; crafty.

MEPHITIC; MEPHITICAL
Me*phit"ic, Me*phit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mephiticus, fr. mephitis
mephitis: cf. F. méphitique.]

1. Tending to destroy life; poisonous; noxious; as, mephitic
exhalations; mephitic regions.

2. Offensive to the smell; as, mephitic odors. Mephitic air (Chem.),
carbon dioxide; -- so called because of its deadly suffocating power.
See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.

MEPHITIS
Me*phi"tis, n. Etym: [L. mephitis : cf. F. méphitis.]

1. Noxious, pestilential, or foul exhalations from decomposing
substances, filth, or other source.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of mammals, including the skunks.

MEPHITISM
Meph"i*tism, n.

Defn: Same as Mephitis, 1.

MERACIOUS
Me*ra"cious, a. Etym: [L. meracus, fr. merus pure, inmixed.]

Defn: Being without mixture or adulteration; hence, strong; racy.
[Obs.]

MERCABLE
Mer"ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. mercabilis, fr. mercari to trade, traffic,
buy. See Merchant.]

Defn: Capable of being bought or sold. [Obs.]

MERCANTILE
Mer"can*tile, a. Etym: [F. mercantile, It. mercantile, fr. L.
mercans, -antis, p. pr. of mercari to traffic. See Merchant.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to merchants, or the business of merchants;
having to do with trade, or the buying and selling of commodities;
commercial.
The expedition of the Argonauts was partly mercantile, partly
military. Arbuthnot.
Mercantile agency, an agency for procuring information of the
standing and credit of merchants in different parts of the country,
for the use of dealers who sell to them.
 -- Mercantile marine, the persons and vessels employed in commerce,
taken collectively.
 -- Mercantile paper, the notes or acceptances given by merchants for
goods bought, or received on consignment; drafts on merchants for
goods sold or consigned. McElrath.

Syn.
 -- Mercantile, Commercial. Commercial is the wider term, being
sometimes used to embrace mercantile. In their stricter use,
commercial relates to the shipping, freighting, forwarding, and other
business connected with the commerce of a country (whether external
or internal), that is, the exchange of commodities; while mercantile
applies to the sale of merchandise and goods when brought to market.
As the two employments are to some extent intermingled, the two words
are often interchanged.

MERCAPTAL
Mer*cap"tal, n. Etym: [Mercaptan + aldehyde.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of compounds of mercaptans with aldehydes.

MERCAPTAN
Mer*cap"tan, n. Etym: [F., fr. NL. mercurius mercury + L. captans, p.
pr. of captare to seize, v. intens. fr. capere.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of series of compounds, hydrosulphides of alcohol
radicals, in composition resembling the alcohols, but containing
sulphur in place of oxygen, and hence called also the sulphur
alcohols. In general, they are colorless liquids having a strong,
repulsive, garlic odor. The name is specifically applied to ethyl
mercaptan, C2H5SH. So called from its avidity for mercury, and other
metals.

MERCAPTIDE
Mer*cap"tide ( or ), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of mercaptan formed by replacing its sulphur
hydrogen by a metal; as, potassium mercaptide, C2H5SK.

MERCAT
Mer"cat, n. Etym: [L. mercatus : cf. It. mercato. See Market.]

Defn: Market; trade. [Obs.] Bp. Sprat.

MERCATANTE
Mer`ca*tan"te (; It. ), n. Etym: [It. See Merchant.]

Defn: A foreign trader. [Obs.] Shak.

MERCATOR'S CHART
Mer*ca"tor's chart".

Defn: See under Chart, and see Mercator's projection, under
Projection.

MERCATURE
Mer"ca*ture, n. Etym: [L. mercatura commerce.]

Defn: Commerce; traffic; trade. [Obs.]

MERCE
Merce, v. t. Etym: [See Amerce.]

Defn: To subject to fine or amercement; to mulct; to amerce. [Obs.]

MERCENARIA
Mer`ce*na"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Mercenary.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The quahog.

MERCENARIAN
Mer`ce*na"ri*an (-an), n.

Defn: A mercenary. [Obs.]

MERCENARILY
Mer"ce*na`ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mercenary manner.

MERCENARINESS
Mer"ce*na*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mercenary; venality. Boyle.

MERCENARY
Mer"ce*na*ry, a. Etym: [OE. mercenarie, F. mercenaire, fr. L.
mercenarius, fr. merces wages, reward. See Mercy.]

1. Acting for reward; serving for pay; paid; hired; hireling; venal;
as, mercenary soldiers.

2. Hence: Moved by considerations of pay or profit; greedy of gain;
sordid; selfish. Shak.
For God forbid I should my papers blot With mercenary lines, with
servile pen. Daniel.

Syn.
 -- See Venal.

MERCENARY
Mer"ce*na*ry, n.; pl. Mercenaries (.

Defn: One who is hired; a hireling; especially, a soldier hired into
foreign service. Milman.

MERCER
Mer"cer, n. Etym: [F. mercier, fr. L. merx, mercis, wares,
merchandise. See Merchant.]

Defn: Originally, a dealer in any kind of goods or wares; now
restricted to a dealer in textile fabrics, as silks or woolens.
[Eng.]

MERCERIZE
Mer"cer*ize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -ized; p. pr. & vb. n. -izing.]
[From (John) Mercer (1791-1866), an English calico printer who
introduced the process + -ize.]

Defn: To treat (cotton fiber or fabrics) with a solution of caustic
alkali. Such treatment causes the fiber to shrink in length and
become stronger and more receptive of dyes. If the yarn or cloth is
kept under tension during the process, it assumes a silky luster. --
Mer`cer*i*za"tion (#), n.

MERCERSHIP
Mer"cer*ship, n.

Defn: The business of a mercer.

MERCERY
Mer"cer*y, n. Etym: [F. mercerie.]

Defn: The trade of mercers; the goods in which a mercer deals.

MERCHAND
Mer"chand, v. i. Etym: [F. marchander. See Merchant.]

Defn: To traffic. [Obs.] Bacon.

MERCHANDISABLE
Mer"chan*di`sa*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be used or transferred as merchandise.

MERCHANDISE
Mer"chan*dise, n. Etym: [F. marchandise, OF. marcheandise.]

1. The objects of commerce; whatever is usually bought or sold in
trade, or market, or by merchants; wares; goods; commodities.
Spenser.

2. The act or business of trading; trade; traffic.

MERCHANDISE
Mer"chan*dise, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Merchandised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Merchandising.]

Defn: To trade; to carry on commerce. Bacon.

MERCHANDISE
Mer"chan*dise, v. t.

Defn: To make merchandise of; to buy and sell. "Love is
merchandised." Shak.

MERCHANDISER
Mer"chan*di`ser, n.

Defn: A trader. Bunyan.

MERCHANDRY
Mer"chand*ry, n. Etym: [See Merchant.]

Defn: Trade; commerce. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson.

MERCHANT
Mer"chant, n. Etym: [OE. marchant, OF. marcheant, F. marchand, fr.
LL. mercatans, -antis, p. pr. of mercatare to negotiate, L. mercari
to traffic, fr. merx, mercis, wares. See Market, Merit, and cf.
Commerce.]

1. One who traffics on a large scale, especially with foreign
countries; a trafficker; a trader.
Others, like merchants, venture trade abroad. Shak.

2. A trading vessel; a merchantman. [Obs.] Shak.

3. One who keeps a store or shop for the sale of goods; a shopkeeper.
[U. S. & Scot.]

MERCHANT
Mer"chant, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or employed in, trade or merchandise; as,
the merchant service. Merchant bar, Merchant iron or steel, certain
common sizes of wrought iron and steel bars.
 -- Merchant service, the mercantile marine of a country. Am. Cyc.
 -- Merchant ship, a ship employed in commerce.
 -- Merchant tailor, a tailor who keeps and sells materials for the
garments which he makes.

MERCHANT
Mer"chant, v. i.

Defn: To be a merchant; to trade. [Obs.]

MERCHANTABLE
Mer"chant*a*ble, a.

Defn: Fit for market; such as is usually sold in market, or such as
will bring the ordinary price; as, merchantable wheat; sometimes, a
technical designation for a particular kind or class.

MERCHANTLY
Mer"chant*ly, a.

Defn: Merchantlike; suitable to the character or business of a
merchant. [Obs.] Gauden.

MERCHANTMAN
Mer"chant*man, n.; pl. Merchantmen (.

1. A merchant. [Obs.] Matt. xiii. 45.

2. A trading vessel; a ship employed in the transportation of goods,
as, distinguished from a man-of-war.

MERCHANTRY
Mer"chant*ry, n.

1. The body of merchants taken collectively; as, the merchantry of a
country.

2. The business of a merchant; merchandise. Walpole.

MERCIABLE
Mer"ci*a*ble, a. Etym: [OF.]

Defn: Merciful. [Obs.]

MERCIFUL
Mer"ci*ful, a. Etym: [Mercy + -ful.]

1. Full of mercy; having or exercising mercy; disposed to pity and
spare offenders; unwilling to punish.
The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious. Ex. xxxiv. 6.
Be merciful, great duke, to men of mold. Shak.

2. Unwilling to give pain; compassionate.
A merciful man will be merciful to his beast. Old Proverb.

Syn.
 -- Compassionate; tender; humane; gracious; kind; mild; clement;
benignant.
 -- Mer"ci*ful*ly, adv.
 -- Mer"ci*ful*ness, n.

MERCIFY
Mer"ci*fy, v. t.

Defn: To pity. [Obs.] Spenser.

MERCILESS
Mer"ci*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of mercy; cruel; unsparing; -- said of animate
beings, and also, figuratively, of things; as, a merciless tyrant;
merciless waves.
The foe is merciless, and will not pity. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Cruel; unmerciful; remorseless; ruthless; pitiless; barbarous;
savage.
 -- Mer"ci*less*ly, adv.
 -- Mer"ci*less*ness, n.

MERCURAMMONIUM
Mer`cur*am*mo"ni*um, n. Etym: [Mercuric + ammonium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A radical regarded as derived from ammonium by the substitution
of mercury for a portion of the hydrogen.

MERCURIAL
Mer*cu"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. mercurialis, fr. Mercurius Mercury: cf. F.
mercuriel.]

1. Having the qualities fabled to belong to the god Mercury; swift;
active; sprightly; fickle; volatile; changeable; as, a mercurial
youth; a mercurial temperament.
A mercurial man Who fluttered over all things like a fan. Byron.

2. Having the form or image of Mercury; -- applied to ancient
guideposts. [Obs.] Chillingworth.

3. Of or pertaining to Mercury as the god of trade; hence, money-
making; crafty.
The mercurial wand of commerce. J. Q. Adams.

4. Of or pertaining to, or containing, mercury; as, mercurial
preparations, barometer. See Mercury, 2.

5. (Med.)

Defn: Caused by the use of mercury; as, mercurial sore mouth.

MERCURIAL
Mer*cu"ri*al, n.

1. A person having mercurial qualities. Bacon.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A preparation containing mercury.

MERCURIALISM
Mer*cu"ri*al*ism, n. [Mercurial + -ism.] (Med.)

Defn: The morbid condition produced by the excessive use of mercury,
or by exposure to its fumes, as in mining or smelting.

MERCURIALIST
Mer*cu"ri*al*ist, n.

1. One under the influence of Mercury; one resembling Mercury in
character.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A physician who uses much mercury, in any of its forms, in his
practice.

MERCURIALIZE
Mer*cu"ri*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mercurialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mercurializing.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: To affect with mercury.

2. (Photography)

Defn: To treat with mercury; to expose to the vapor of mercury.

MERCURIALIZE
Mer*cu"ri*al*ize, v. i.

Defn: To be sprightly, fantastic, or capricious. [Obs.]

MERCURIALLY
Mer*cu"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mercurial manner.

MERCURIC
Mer*cu"ric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containing
mercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury into which this
element enters in its lowest proportion. Mercuric chloride, corrosive
sublimate. See Corrosive.

MERCURIFICATION
Mer*cu`ri*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mercurification. See
Mercurify.]

1. (Metal.)

Defn: The process or operation of obtaining the mercury, in its fluid
form, from mercuric minerals.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of compounding, or the state of being
compounded, with mercury. [R.]

MERCURIFY
Mer*cu"ri*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mercurified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mercurifying.] Etym: [Mercury + -fy.]

1. To obtain mercury from, as mercuric minerals, which may be done by
any application of intense heat that expels the mercury in fumes,
which are afterward condensed. [R.]

2. To combine or mingle mercury with; to impregnate with mercury; to
mercurialize. [R.]

MERCURISM
Mer"cu*rism, n.

Defn: A communication of news; an announcement. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

MERCUROUS
Mer*cu"rous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containing
mercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury in which it is present
in its highest proportion. Mercurous chloride. (Chem.) See Calomel.

MERCURY
Mer"cu*ry, n. Etym: [L. Mercurius; akin to merx wares.]

1. (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: A Latin god of commerce and gain; -- treated by the poets as
identical with the Greek Hermes, messenger of the gods, conductor of
souls to the lower world, and god of eloquence.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A metallic element mostly obtained by reduction from cinnabar,
one of its ores. It is a heavy, opaque, glistening liquid (commonly
called quicksilver), and is used in barometers, thermometers, ect.
Specific gravity 13.6. Symbol Hg (Hydrargyrum). Atomic weight 199.8.
Mercury has a molecule which consists of only one atom. It was named
by the alchemists after the god Mercury, and designated by his
symbol, mercury.

Note: Mercury forms alloys, called amalgams, with many metals, and is
thus used in applying tin foil to the backs of mirrors, and in
extracting gold and silver from their ores. It is poisonous, and is
used in medicine in the free state as in blue pill, and in its
compounds as calomel, corrosive sublimate, etc. It is the only metal
which is liquid at ordinary temperatures, and it solidifies at about
-39º Centigrade to a soft, malleable, ductile metal.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the planets of the solar system, being the one nearest
the sun, from which its mean distance is about 36,000,000 miles. Its
period is 88 days, and its diameter 3,000 miles.

4. A carrier of tidings; a newsboy; a messenger; hence, also, a
newspaper. Sir J. Stephen. "The monthly Mercuries." Macaulay.

5. Sprightly or mercurial quality; spirit; mutability; fickleness.
[Obs.]
He was so full of mercury that he could not fix long in any
friendship, or to any design. Bp. Burnet.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Mercurialis annua), of the Spurge family, the leaves
of which are sometimes used for spinach, in Europe.

Note: The name is also applied, in the United States, to certain
climbing plants, some of which are poisonous to the skin, esp. to the
Rhus Toxicodendron, or poison ivy. Dog's mercury (Bot.), Mercurialis
perennis, a perennial plant differing from M. annua by having the
leaves sessile.
 -- English mercury (Bot.), a kind of goosefoot formerly used as a
pot herb; -- called Good King Henry.
 -- Horn mercury (Min.), a mineral chloride of mercury, having a
semitranslucent, hornlike appearance.

MERCURY
Mer"cu*ry, v. t.

Defn: To wash with a preparation of mercury. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

MERCY
Mer"cy, n.; pl. Mercies. Etym: [OE. merci, F. merci, L. merces,
mercedis, hire, pay, reward, LL., equiv. to misericordia pity, mercy.
L. merces is probmerere to deserve, acquire. See Merit, and cf.
Amerce.]

1. Forbearance to inflict harm under circumstances of provocation,
when one has the power to inflict it; compassionate treatment of an
offender or adversary; clemency.
Examples of justice must be made for terror to some; examples of
mercy for comfort to others. Bacon.

2. Compassionate treatment of the unfortunate and helpless;
sometimes, favor, beneficence. Luke x. 37.

3. Disposition to exercise compassion or favor; pity; compassion;
willingness to spare or to help.
In whom mercy lacketh and is not founden. Sir T. Elyot.

4. A blessing regarded as a manifestation of compassion or favor.
The Father of mercies and the God of all comfort. 2 Cor. i. 3.
Mercy seat (Bib.), the golden cover or lid of the Ark of the
Covenant. See Ark, 2.
 -- Sisters of Mercy (R. C. Ch.),a religious order founded in Dublin
in the year 1827. Communities of the same name have since been
established in various American cities. The duties of those belonging
to the order are, to attend lying-in hospitals, to superintend the
education of girls, and protect decent women out of employment, to
visit prisoners and the sick, and to attend persons condemned to
death.
 -- To be at the mercy of, to be wholly in the power of.

Syn.
 -- See Grace.

MERD
Merd, n. Etym: [F. merde, L. merda.]

Defn: Ordure; dung. [Obs.] Burton.

-MERE
-mere. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form meaning part, portion; as, blastomere,
epimere.

MERE
Mere, n. Etym: [Written also mar.] Etym: [OE. mere, AS. mere mere,
sea; akin to D. meer lake, OS. meri sea, OHG. meri, mari, G. meer,
Icel. marr, Goth. marei, Russ. more, W. mor, Ir. & Gael. muir, L.
mare, and perh. to L. mori to die, and meaning originally, that which
is dead, a waste. Cf. Mortal, Marine, Marsh, Mermaid, Moor.]

Defn: A pool or lake. Drayton. Tennyson.

MERE
Mere, n. Etym: [Written also meer and mear.] Etym: [AS. gemære. sq.
root269.]

Defn: A boundary. Bacon.

MERE
Mere, v. t.

Defn: To divide, limit, or bound. [Obs.]
Which meared her rule with Africa. Spenser.

MERE
Mere, n.

Defn: A mare. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MERE
Mere, a. [Superl. Merest. The comparative is rarely or never used.]
Etym: [L. merus.]

1. Unmixed; pure; entire; absolute; unqualified.
Then entered they the mere, main sea. Chapman.
The sorrows of this world would be mere and unmixed. Jer. Taylor.

2. Only this, and nothing else; such, and no more; simple; bare; as,
a mere boy; a mere form.
From mere success nothing can be concluded in favor of any nation.
Atterbury.