

MOLEBUT
Mole"but, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sunfish (Orthagoriscus, or Mola). [Written also molebat.]

MOLECAST
Mole"cast`, n.

Defn: A little elevation of earth made by a mole; a molehill.
Mortimer.

MOLECH
Mo"lech, n. Etym: [Heb. molek king.] (Script.)

Defn: The fire god of the Ammonites, to whom human sacrifices were
offered; Moloch. Lev. xviii. 21.

MOLECULAR
Mo*lec"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. moléculare. See Molecule.] (Phys. &
Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, connected with, produced by, or consisting of,
molecules; as, molecular forces; molecular groups of atoms, etc.
Molecular attraction (Phys.), attraction acting between the molecules
of bodies, and at insensible distances.
 -- Molecular weight (Chem.), the weight of a molecule of any gas or
vapor as compared with the hydrogen atom as a standard; the sum of
the atomic weights of the constituents of a molecule; thus, the
molecular weight of water (H2O) is 18.

MOLECULARITY
Mo*lec`u*lar"i*ty, n. (Phys. & Chem.)

Defn: The state of consisting of molecules; the state or quality of
being molecular.

MOLECULARLY
Mo*lec"u*lar*ly, adv. (Phys. & Chem.)

Defn: With molecules; in the manner of molecules. W. R. Grove.

MOLECULE
Mol"e*cule, n. Etym: [Dim. fr. L. moles a mass: cf. F. molécule. See
3d Mole.]

1. One of the very small invisible particles of which all matter is
supposed to consist.

2. (Physics)

Defn: The smallest part of any substance which possesses the
characteristic properties and qualities of that substance, and which
can exist alone in a free state.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: A group of atoms so united and combined by chemical affinity
that they form a complete, integrated whole, being the smallest
portion of any particular compound that can exist in a free state;
as, a molecule of water consists of two atoms of hydrogen and one of
oxygen. Cf. Atom.

MOLE-EYED
Mole"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having eyes like those of the mole; having imperfect sight.

MOLEHILL
Mole"hill`, n.

Defn: A little hillock of earth thrown up by moles working under
ground; hence, a very small hill, or an insignificant obstacle or
difficulty.
Having leapt over such mountains, lie down before a molehill. South.

MOLENDINACEOUS; MOLENDINARIOUS
Mo*len`di*na"ceous, Mo*len`di*na"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. molendinarius,
fr. molendinum a mill, fr. molere to grind.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling the sails of a windmill.

MOLESKIN
Mole"skin`, n.

Defn: Any fabric having a thick soft shag, like the fur of a mole;
esp., a kind of strong twilled fustian.

MOLEST
Mo*lest", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Molested; p. pr. & vb. n. Molesting.]
Etym: [F. molester, L. molestare, fr. molestus troublesome, fr. moles
a heavy mass, load, burden. See 3d Mole.]

Defn: To trouble; to disturb; to render uneasy; to interfere with; to
vex.
They have molested the church with needless opposition. Hooker.

Syn.
 -- To trouble; disturb; incommode; inconvenience; annoy; vex; tease.

MOLEST
Mo*lest", n.

Defn: Molestation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOLESTATION
Mol`es*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. molestation.]

Defn: The act of molesting, or the state of being molested;
disturbance; annoyance.

MOLESTER
Mo*lest"er, n.

Defn: One who molests.

MOLESTFUL
Mo*lest"ful, a.

Defn: Troublesome; vexatious. [R.]

MOLESTIE; MOLESTY
Mo*les"tie, Mo*les"ty, n. Etym: [L. molestia.]

Defn: Molestation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOLEWARP
Mole"warp`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Moldwarp.

MOLIMINOUS
Mo*lim"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. molimen a great exertion; moles a heavy
mass.]

Defn: Of great bulk or consequence; very important. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

MOLINE
Mo"line, n. Etym: [L. molina mill, fr. molere to grind. See Mill.]

Defn: The crossed iron that supports the upper millstone by resting
on the spindle; a millrind. Cross moline (Her.), a cross each arm of
which is divided at the end into two rounded branches or divisions.

MOLINISM
Mo"lin*ism, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: The doctrines of the Molinists, somewhat resembling the tenets
of the Arminians.

MOLINIST
Mo"lin*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of the opinions of Molina, a Spanish Jesuit (in
respect to grace); an opposer of the Jansenists.

MOLL
Moll, a. Etym: [G., fr. L. mollis soft, tender, elegiac. Cf. Molle.]
(Mus.)

Defn: Minor; in the minor mode; as, A moll, that is, A minor.

MOLLAH
Mol"lah, n. Etym: [Ar. maula, commonly mollain Turkey.]

Defn: One of the higher order of Turkish judges; also, a Turkish
title of respect for a religious and learned man. [Written also
moolah.]

MOLLE
Mol"le, a. Etym: [See Moll.] (Mus.)

Defn: Lower by a semitone; flat; as, E molle, that is, E flat.

MOLLEBART
Mol"le*bart, n.

Defn: An agricultural implement used in Flanders, consisting of a
kind of large shovel drawn by a horse and guided by a man. [Written
also mollebært and mouldebært.] Simmonds.

MOLLEMOKE
Mol"le*moke`, n. Etym: [Sw. mallemucke the stormy petrel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large pelagic petrels and
fulmars, as Fulmarus glacialis, of the North Atlantic, and several
species of Æstrelata, of the Southern Ocean. See Fulmar. [Written
also mollymawk, malmock, mollemock, mallemocke, etc.]

MOLLIENT
Mol"lient, a. Etym: [L. molliens, p.p. of mollire to soften, fr.
mollis soft.]

Defn: Serving to soften; assuaging; emollient.

MOLLIENTLY
Mol"lient*ly, adv.

Defn: Assuagingly.

MOLLIFIABLE
Mol"li*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being mollified.

MOLLIFICATION
Mol`li*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [LL. mollificatio; cf. F. mollification.]

Defn: The act of mollifying, or the state of being mollified; a
softening. Chaucer.

MOLLIFIER
Mol"li*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, mollifies. Bacon.

MOLLIFY
Mol"li*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mollified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mollifying.] Etym: [F. mollifier, L. mollificare; mollis soft + -
ficare (in comp.) to make. See Enmollient, Moil, v. t., and -fy.]

1. To soften; to make tender; to reduce the hardness, harshness, or
asperity of; to qualify; as, to mollify the ground.
With sweet science mollified their stubborn hearts. Spenser.

2. To assuage, as pain or irritation, to appease, as excited feeling
or passion; to pacify; to calm.

MOLLINET
Mol"li*net, n. Etym: [Cf. Moline.]

Defn: A little mill.

MOLLIPILOSE
Mol`li*pi*lose", a. Etym: [L. mollis soft + pilosus hairy.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having soft hairs; downy.

MOLLITIES
Mol*li"ti*es, n. Etym: [L., softness.] (Med.)

Defn: Unnatural softness of any organ or part. Dunglison.

MOLLITUDE
Mol"li*tude, n. Etym: [L. mollitudo, fr. mollis soft.]

Defn: Softness; effeminacy; weakness. [R.]

MOLLUSC
Mol"lusc, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Mollusk.

MOLLUSCA
Mol*lus"ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Mollusk.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, including the
classes Cephalopoda, Gastropoda, PteropodaScaphopoda, and
Lamellibranchiata, or Conchifera. These animals have an unsegmented
bilateral body, with most of the organs and parts paired, but not
repeated longitudinally. Most of them develop a mantle, which
incloses either a branchial or a pulmonary cavity. They are generally
more or less covered and protected by a calcareous shell, which may
be univalve, bivalve, or multivalve.

Note: Formerly the Brachiopoda, Bryzoa, and Tunicata were united with
the Lamellibranchiata in an artificial group called Acephala, which
was also included under Mollusca. See Molluscoudea.

MOLLUSCAN
Mol*lus"can, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to mollusks.
 -- n.

Defn: A mollusk; one of the Mollusca.

MOLLUSCOID
Mol*lus"coid, a. Etym: [Mollusca + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling the true mollusks; belonging to the Molluscoidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Molluscoidea.

MOLLUSCOIDAL
Mol`lus*coid"al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Molluscoid.

MOLLUSCOIDEA
Mol`lus*coi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Mollusk, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Invertebrata which includes the classes
Brachiopoda and Bryozoa; -- called also Anthoid Mollusca.

Note: Originally the Tunicata were included under Molluscoidea, from
which they are known to differ widely in structure and embryology.
Molluscoidea were formerly considered a subdivision of Mollusca, but
they are now known to have more relationship with Annelida than with
Mollusca.

MOLLUSCOUS
Mol*lus"cous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Molluscan.

MOLLUSCUM
Mol*lus"cum, n. Etym: [NL. See Mollusk.] (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous disease characterized by numerous tumors, of
various forms, filled with a thick matter; -- so called from the
resemblance of the tumors to some molluscous animals. Dunglison.

MOLLUSK
Mol"lusk, n. Etym: [F. mollusque, L. mollusca a kind of soft nut with
a thin shell, fr. molluscus soft, mollis soft. See Mollify.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Mollusca. [Written also mollusc.]

MOLLY
Mol"ly, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Mollemoke.

MOLLY
Mol"ly, n.

Defn: A pet or colloquial name for Mary. Molly cottontail. (Zoöl.)
See Cottontail.
 -- Molly Maguire (ma*gwir"); pl. Molly Maguires (-gwirz). (a) A
member of a secret association formed among the tenantry in Ireland
about 1843, principally for the purpose of intimidating law officers
and preventing the service of legal writs. Its members disguised
themselves in the dress of women. (b) A member of a similar
association of Irishmen organized in the anthracite coal region of
Pennsylvania, about 1854, for the purpose of intimidating employers
and officers of the law, and for avenging themselves by murder on
persons obnoxious to them. The society was broken up by criminal
prosecutions in 1876.

MOLLY-MAWK
Mol"ly-mawk`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mollemoke.

MOLOCH
Mo"loch, n. Etym: [Heb. molek king.]

1. (Script.)

Defn: The fire god of the Ammonites in Canaan, to whom human
sacrifices were offered; Molech. Also applied figuratively.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spiny Australian lizard (Moloch horridus). The horns on the
head and numerous spines on the body give it a most formidable
appearance.

MOLOKANE; MOLOKANY
Mol`o*ka"ne, Mol`o*ka"ny, n. pl. [Russ. molokane.]

Defn: See Raskolnik.

MOLOSSE
Mo*losse", n.

Defn: See Molossus.

MOLOSSES
Mo*los"ses, n.

Defn: Molasses. [Obs.]

MOLOSSINE
Mo*los"sine, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bat of the genus Molossus, as the monk bat.

MOLOSSUS
Mo*los"sus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gr. & Lat. Pros.)

Defn: A foot of three long syllables. [Written also molosse.]

MOLT
Molt, obs.imp.

Defn: of Melt. Chaucer. Spenser.

MOLT; MOULT
Molt, Moult, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Molted or Moulted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Molting or Moulting.] Etym: [OE. mouten, L. mutare. See Mew to molt,
and cf. Mute, v. t.] [The prevalent spelling is, perhaps, moult; but
as the u has not been inserted in the otherwords of this class, as,
bolt, colt, dolt, etc., it is desirable to complete the analogy by
the spelling molt.]

Defn: To shed or cast the hair, feathers, skin, horns, or the like,
as an animal or a bird. Bacon.

MOLT; MOULT
Molt, Moult, v. t.

Defn: To cast, as the hair, skin, feathers, or the like; to shed.

MOLT; MOULT
Molt, Moult, n.

Defn: The act or process of changing the feathers, hair, skin, etc.;
molting.

MOLTABLE
Molt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of assuming a molten state; meltable; fusible. [Obs.]

MOLTEN
Mol"ten, a. Etym: [See Melt.]

1. Melted; being in a state of fusion, esp. when the liquid state is
produced by a high degree of heat; as, molten iron.

2. Made by melting and casting the substance or metal of which the
thing is formed; as, a molten image.

MOLTO
Mol"to, adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Much; very; as, molto adagio, very slow.

MOLY
Mo"ly, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A fabulous herb of occult power, having a black root and white
blossoms, said by Homer to have been given by Hermes to Ulysses to
counteract the spells of Circe. Milton.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of garlic (Allium Moly) with large yellow flowers; --
called also golden garlic.

MOLYBDATE
Mo*lyb"date, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of molybdic acid.

MOLYBDENA
Mol`yb*de"na, n. Etym: [L. molybdaena galena, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: See Molybdenite.

MOLYBDENITE
Mo*lyb"de*nite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. molybdénite. See Molybdena.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in soft, lead-gray, foliated masses or
scales, resembling graphite; sulphide of molybdenum.

MOLYBDENOUS
Mo*lyb"de*nous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See Molybdous.

MOLYBDENUM
Mol`yb*de"num, n. Etym: [NL.: cf. F. molybdène. See Molybdena.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A rare element of the chromium group, occurring in nature in
the minerals molybdenite and wulfenite, and when reduced obtained as
a hard, silver-white, difficulty fusible metal. Symbol Mo. Atomic
weight 95.9.

MOLYBDIC
Mo*lyb"dic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. molybdique. See molybdena.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif.,
designating those compounds in which the element has a higher
valence, as contrasted with molybdous compounds; as, molybdic oxide.

MOLYBDITE
Mo*lyb"dite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Molybdic ocher.

MOLYBDOUS
Mo*lyb"dous, a. Etym: [See Molybdena.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif.,
designating those compounds in which molybdenum has a lower valence
as contrasted with molybdic compounds.

MOME
Mome, n. Etym: [Cf. Mumm, Momus.]

Defn: A dull, silent person; a blockhead. [Obs.] Spenser.

MOMENT
Mo"ment, n. Etym: [F. moment, L. momentum, for movimentum movement,
motion, moment, fr. movere to move. See Move, and cf. Momentum,
Movement.]

1. A minute portion of time; a point of time; an instant; as, at thet
very moment.
In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. 1 Cor. xv. 52.

2. Impulsive power; force; momentum.
The moments or quantities of motion in bodies. Berkley.
Touch, with lightest moment of impulse, His free will. Milton.

3. Importance, as in influence or effect; consequence; weight or
value; consideration.
Matters of great moment. Shak.
It is an abstruse speculation, but also of far less moment and
consequence of us than the others. Bentley.

4. An essential element; a deciding point, fact, or consideration; an
essential or influential circumstance.

5. (Math.)

Defn: An infinitesimal change in a varying quantity; an increment or
decrement. [Obs.]

6. (Mech.)

Defn: Tendency, or measure of tendency, to produce motion, esp.
motion about a fixed point or axis. Moment of a couple (Mech.), the
product of either of its forces into the perpendicular distance
between them.
 -- Moment of a force. (Mech.) (a) With respect to a point, the
product of the intensity of the force into the perpendicular distance
from the point to the line of direction of the force. (b) With
respect to a line, the product of that component of the force which
is perpendicular to the plane passing through the line and the point
of application of the force, into the shortest distance between the
line and this point. (c) With respect to a plane that is parallel to
the force, the product of the force into the perpendicular distance
of its point of application from the plane.
 -- Moment of inertia, of a rotating body, the sum of the mass of
each particle of matter of the body into the square of its distance
from the axis of rotation; -- called also moment of rotation and
moment of the mass.
 -- Statical moment, the product of a force into its leverage; the
same as moment of a force with respect to a point, line, etc.
 -- Virtual moment. See under Virtual.

Syn.
 -- Instant; twinkling; consequence; weight; force; value;
consideration; signification; avail.

MOMENTAL
Mo*men"tal, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. momental.] [Obs.]

1. Lasting but a moment; brief.
Not one momental minute doth she swerve. Breton.

2. Important; momentous.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to moment or momentum.

MOMENTALLY
Mo*men"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: For a moment. [Obs.]

MOMENTANEOUS; MOMENTANY
Mo`men*ta"ne*ous, Mo"men*ta*ny, a. Etym: [L. momentaneus: cf. F.
momentané.]

Defn: Momentary. [Obs.] Hooker. "Momentany as a sound." Shak.

MOMENTARILY
Mo"men*ta*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: Every moment; from moment to moment. Shenstone.

MOMENTARINESS
Mo"men*ta*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being momentary; shortness of duration.

MOMENTARY
Mo"men*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. momentarius. See Moment.]

Defn: Done in a moment; continuing only a moment; lasting a very
short time; as, a momentary pang.
This momentary joy breeds months of pain. Shak.

MOMENTLY
Mo"ment*ly, adv.

1. For a moment.

2. In a moment; every moment; momentarily.

MOMENTOUS
Mo*men"tous, a. Etym: [Cf. L. momentosus rapid, momentary.]

Defn: Of moment or consequence; very important; weighty; as, a
momentous decision; momentous affairs.
 -- Mo*men"tous*ly, adv.
 -- Mo*men"tous*ness, n.

MOMENTUM
Mo*men"tum, n.; pl. L. Momenta, F. Momentums. Etym: [L. See Moment.]

1. (Mech.)

Defn: The quantity of motion in a moving body, being always
proportioned to the quantity of matter multiplied into the velocity;
impetus.

2. Essential element, or constituent element.
I shall state the several momenta of the distinction in separate
propositions. Sir W. Hamilton.

MOMIER
Mom"i*er, n. Etym: [F. mômier, fr. OF. momer, mommer, to mumm, to
mask one's self.]

Defn: A name given in contempt to strict Calvinists in Switzerland,
France, and some parts of Germany, in the early part of the 19th
century.

MOMMERY
Mom"mer*y, n.

Defn: See Mummery. Rowe.

MOMOT
Mo"mot, n. Etym: [Momot and motmot, the native American name.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Motmot.

MOMUS
Mo"mus, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Myth.)

Defn: The god of mockery and censure.

MON-
Mon-.

Defn: Same as Mono-.

MONA
Mo"na, n. Etym: [CF. Sp. & Pg. mona, fem. of mono a monkey, ape.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, handsome, long-tailed West American monkey
(Cercopithecus mona). The body is dark olive, with a spot of white on
the haunches.

MONACHAL
Mon"a*chal, a. Etym: [L. monachus a monk: cf. F. monacal. See Monk.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to monks or a monastic life; monastic.

MONACHISM
Mon"a*chism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monachisme.]

Defn: The system and influences of a monastic life; monasticism.

MONACID
Mon*ac"id, a. Etym: [Mon- + acid.] (Chem.)

Defn: Having one hydrogen atom replaceable by a negative or acid atom
or radical; capable of neutralizing a monobasic acid; -- said of
bases, and of certain metals.

MONAD
Mon"ad, n. Etym: [L. monas, -adis, a unit, Gr.

1. An ultimate atom, or simple, unextended point; something ultimate
and indivisible.

2. (Philos. of Leibnitz)

Defn: The elementary and indestructible units which were conceived of
as endowed with the power to produce all the changes they undergo,
and thus determine all physical and spiritual phenomena.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the smallest flangellate Infusoria; esp., the species of
the genus Monas, and allied genera.

4. (Biol.)

Defn: A simple, minute organism; a primary cell, germ, or plastid.

5. (Chem.)

Defn: An atom or radical whose valence is one, or which can combine
with, be replaced by, or exchanged for, one atom of hydrogen. Monad
deme (Biol.), in tectology, a unit of the first order of
individuality.

MONADARIA
Mon`a*da"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Monad.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Infusoria.

MONADELPHIA
Mon`a*del"phi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants having the stamens united into a
tube, or ring, by the filaments, as in the Mallow family.

MONADELPHIAN; MONADELPHOUS
Mon`a*del"phi*an, Mon`a*del"phous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monadelphie.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monadelphia; having the stamens united
in one body by the filaments.

MONADIC; MONADICAL
Mo*nad"ic, Mo*nad"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, a monad, in any of its senses. See
Monad, n. Dr. H. More.

MONADIFORM
Mo*nad"i*form, a. Etym: [Monad + -form.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having the form of a monad; resembling a monad in having one or
more filaments of vibratile protoplasm; as, monadiform young.

MONADOLOGY
Mon`ad*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Monad + -logy.] (Philos.)

Defn: The doctrine or theory of monads.

MONAL
Mo*nal", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any Asiatic pheasant of the genus Lophophorus, as the Impeyan
pheasant.

MONAMIDE
Mon*am"ide, n. Etym: [Mon- + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An amido compound with only one amido group.

MONAMINE
Mon*am"ine, n. Etym: [Mon- + amine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A basic compound containing one amido group; as, methyl amine
is a monamine.

MONANDER
Mo*nan"der, n. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the Monandria.

MONANDRIA
Mo*nan"dri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants embracing those having but a single
stamen.

MONANDRIAN
Mo*nan"dri*an, a.; (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Monandrous.

MONANDRIC
Mo*nan"dric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to monandry; practicing monandry as a system
of marriage.

MONANDROUS
Mo*nan"drous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the monandria; having but one stamen.

MONANDRY
Mo*nan"dry, n. Etym: [See Monandria.]

Defn: The possession by a woman of only one husband at the same time;
-- contrasted with polyandry.

MONANTHOUS
Mo*nan"thous, a. Etym: [Mon- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having but one flower; one-flowered. Gray.

MONARCH
Mon"arch, n. Etym: [F. monarque, L. monarcha, fr. Gr. Archi-.]

1. A sole or supreme ruler; a sovereign; the highest ruler; an
emperor, king, queen, prince, or chief.
He who reigns Monarch in heaven, ... upheld by old repute. Milton.

2. One superior to all others of the same kind; as, an oak is called
the monarch of the forest.

3. A patron deity or presiding genius.
Come, thou, monarch of the vine, Plumpy Bacchus. Shak.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large red and black butterfly (Danais Plexippus); --
called also milkweed butterfly.

MONARCH
Mon"arch, a.

Defn: Superior to others; preëminent; supreme; ruling. "Monarch
savage." Pope.

MONARCHAL
Mo*nar"chal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a monarch; suiting a monarch; sovoreign; regal;
imperial.
Satan, whom now transcendent glory raised Above his fellows, with
monarchal pride. Milton.

MONARCHESS
Mon"arch*ess, n.

Defn: A female monarch. [Obs.]

MONARCHIAL
Mo*nar"chi*al, a.

Defn: Monarchic. Burke.

MONARCHIAN
Mo*nar"chi*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect in the early Christian church which rejected the
doctrine of the Trinity; -- called also patripassian.

MONARCHIC; MONARCHICAL
Mo*nar"chic, Mo*nar"chic*al, a. Etym: [F. monarchique, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a monarch, or to monarchy. Burke.
 -- Mo*nar"chic*al*ly, adv.

MONARCHISM
Mon"arch*ism, n.

Defn: The principles of, or preference for, monarchy.

MONARCHIST
Mon"arch*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monarchiste.]

Defn: An advocate of, or believer in, monarchy.

MONARCHIZE
Mon"arch*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Monarchized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Monarchizing.]

Defn: To play the sovereign; to act the monarch. [R.] Shak.

MONARCHIZE
Mon"arch*ize, v. t.

Defn: To rule; to govern. [R.]

MONARCHIZER
Mon"arch*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who monarchizes; also, a monarchist.

MONARCHO
Mo*nar"cho, n.

Defn: The nickname of a crackbrained Italian who fancied himself an
emperor. [Obs.] Shak.

MONARCHY
Mon"arch*y, n.; pl. Monarchies. Etym: [F. monarchie, L. monarchia,
Gr. Monarch.]

1. A state or government in which the supreme power is lodged in the
hands of a monarch.

2. A system of government in which the chief ruler is a monarch.
In those days he had affected zeal for monarchy. Macaulay.

3. The territory ruled over by a monarch; a kingdom.
What scourage for perjury Can this dark monarchy afford false
Clarence. Shak.
Fifth monarchy, a universal monarchy, supposed to be the subject of
prophecy in Daniel ii.; the four preceding monarchies being Assyrian,
Persian, Grecian, and Roman. See Fifth Monarchy men, under Fifth.

MONAS
Mo"nas, n. Etym: [NL. See Monad.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of minute flagellate Infusoria of which there are many
species, both free and attached. See Illust. under Monad.

MONASTERIAL
Mon`as*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. monasterials, fr. monasterium.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to monastery, or to monastic life.
 -- Mon`as*te"ri*al*ly, adv.

MONASTERY
Mon"as*te*ry, n.; pl. Monasteries. Etym: [L. monasterium, Gr.
Minister.]

Defn: A house of religious retirement, or of secusion from ordinary
temporal concerns, especially for monks; -- more rarely applied to
such a house for females.

Syn.
 -- Convent; abbey; priory. See Cloister.

MONASTIC
Mo*nas"tic, n.

Defn: A monk.

MONASTIC; MONASTICAL
Mo*nas"tic, Mo*nas"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. monastique. See Monastery.]

1. Of or pertaining to monasteries, or to their occupants, rules,
etc., as, monastic institutions or rules.

2. Secluded from temporal concerns and devoted to religion; recluse.
"A life monastic." Denham.

MONASTICALLY
Mo*nas"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a monastic manner.

MONASTICISM
Mo*nas"ti*cism, n.

Defn: The monastic life, system, or condition. Milman.

MONASTICON
Mo*nas"ti*con, n. Etym: [NL. See Monastic.]

Defn: A book giving an account of monasteries.

MONATOMIC
Mon`a*tom"ic, adv. Etym: [Mon- + atomic.] (Chem.)
(a) Consisting of, or containing, one atom; as, the molecule of
mercury is monatomic.
(b) Having the equivalence or replacing power of an atom of hydrogen;
univalent; as, the methyl radical is monatomic.

MONAXIAL
Mo*nax"i*al, a. Etym: [Mon- + axial.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having only one axis; developing along a single line or plane;
as, monaxial development.

MONAZITE
Mon"a*zite, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring usually in small isolated crystals, --
phosphate of the cerium metals.

MONDAY
Mon"day, n. Etym: [OE. moneday, monenday, AS. monandæg, i.e., day of
the moon, day sacred to the moon; akin to D. maandag, G. montag, OHG.
manatag, Icel. manadagr, Dan. mandag, Sw. måndag. See Moon, and Day.]

Defn: The second day of the week; the day following Sunday.

MONDE
Monde, n. Etym: [F. See Mundane.]

Defn: The world; a globe as an ensign of royalty. [R.] A. Drummond.
Le beau monde Etym: [F.], fashionable society. See Beau monde.
 -- Demi monde. See Demimonde.

MONE
Mone, n.

Defn: The moon. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MONE
Mone, n.

Defn: A moan. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MONECIAN; MONECIOUS
Mo*ne"cian, Mo*ne"cious, a. (Bot.)

Defn: See Monoecian, and Monoecious.

MONEMBRYONY
Mon*em"bry*o*ny, n. Etym: [See Mono-, and Embryo.] (Bot.)

Defn: The condition of an ovule having but a single embryo.
 -- Mon*em`bry*on"ic, a.

MONER
Mo"ner, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Monera.

MONERA
Mo*ne"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lowest division of rhizopods, including those which
resemble the amoebas, but are destitute of a nucleus.

MONERAL
Mo*ne"ral, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monera.

MONERAN
Mo*ne"ran, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monera.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Monera.

MONERON
Mo*ne"ron, n.; pl. L. Monera; E. Monerons. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Monera.

MONERULA
Mo*ner"u*la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of moner. See Monera.] (Biol.)

Defn: A germ in that stage of development in which its form is simply
that of a non-nucleated mass of protoplasm. It precedes the one-
celled germ. So called from its likeness to a moner. Haeckel.

MONESIA
Mo*ne"sia, n. (Pharm.)

Defn: The bark, or a vegetable extract brought in solid cakes from
South America and believed to be derived from the bark, of the tree
Chrysophyllum glycyphloeum. It is used as an alterative and
astringent.

MONESIN
Mo*ne"sin, n.

Defn: The acrid principle of Monesia, sometimes used as a medicine.

MONEST
Mo*nest", v. t. Etym: [See Admonish.]

Defn: To warn; to admonish; to advise. [Obs.] Wyclif (2 Cor. v. 20).

MONETARY
Mon"e*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. monetarius belonging to a mint. See Money.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to money, or consisting of money; pecuniary.
"The monetary relations of Europe." E. Everett. Monetary unit, the
standard of a national currency, as the dollar in the United States,
the pound in England, the franc in France, the mark in Germany.

MONETH
Mon"eth, n.

Defn: A month. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MONETIZATION
Mon`e*ti*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of converting into money, or of adopting as
money; as, the monetization of silver.

MONETIZE
Mon"e*tize, v. t.

Defn: To convert into money; to adopt as current money; as, to
monetize silver.

MONEY
Mon"ey, n.; pl. Moneys. Etym: [OE. moneie, OF. moneie, F. monnaie,
fr. L. moneta. See Mint place where coin is made, Mind, and cf.
Moidore, Monetary.]

1. A piece of metal, as gold, silver, copper, etc., coined, or
stamped, and issued by the sovereign authority as a medium of
exchange in financial transactions between citizens and with
government; also, any number of such pieces; coin.
To prevent such abuses, ... it has been found necessary ... to affix
a public stamp upon certain quantities of such particular metals, as
were in those countries commonly made use of to purchase goods. Hence
the origin of coined money, and of those public offices called mints.
A. Smith.

2. Any written or stamped promise, certificate, or order, as a
government note, a bank note, a certificate of deposit, etc., which
is payable in standard coined money and is lawfully current in lieu
of it; in a comprehensive sense, any currency usually and lawfully
employed in buying and selling.

Note: Whatever, among barbarous nations, is used as a medium of
effecting exchanges of property, and in the terms of which values are
reckoned, as sheep, wampum, copper rings, quills of salt or of gold
dust, shovel blades, etc., is, in common language, called their
money.

3. In general, wealth; property; as, he has much money in land, or in
stocks; to make, or lose, money.
The love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. 1 Tim vi. 10 (Rev.
Ver. ).
Money bill (Legislation), a bill for raising revenue.
 -- Money broker, a broker who deals in different kinds of money; one
who buys and sells bills of exchange; -- called also money changer.
 -- Money cowrie (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Cypræa (esp.
C. moneta) formerly much used as money by savage tribes. See Cowrie.
 -- Money of account, a denomination of value used in keeping
accounts, for which there may, or may not, be an equivalent coin;
e.g., the mill is a money of account in the United States, but not a
coin.
 -- Money order, an order for the payment of money; specifically, a
government order for the payment of money, issued at one post office
as payable at another; -- called also postal money order.
 -- Money scrivener, a person who produces the loan of money to
others. [Eng.] -- Money spider, Money spinner (Zoöl.), a small
spider; -- so called as being popularly supposed to indicate that the
person upon whom it crawls will be fortunate in money matters.
 -- Money's worth, a fair or full equivalent for the money which is
paid.
 -- A piece of money, a single coin.
 -- Ready money, money held ready for payment, or actually paid, at
the time of a transaction; cash.
 -- To make money, to gain or acquire money or property; to make a
profit in dealings.

MONEY
Mon"ey, v. t.

Defn: To supply with money. [Obs.]

MONEYAGE
Mon"ey*age, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monnayage coinage.]

1. A tax paid to the first two Norman kings of England to prevent
them from debashing the coin. Hume.

2. Mintage; coinage. [Obs.]

MONEYED
Mon"eyed, adv.

1. Supplied with money; having money; wealthy; as, moneyey men.
Bacon.

2. Converted into money; coined.
If exportation will not balance importation, away must your silver go
again, whether moneyed or not moneyed. Locke.

3. Consisting in, or composed of, money. A. Hamilton.

MONEYER
Mon"ey*er, n. Etym: [From Money; cf. OF. monoier, F. monnoayeur, L.
monetarius a master of the mint. Cf. Monetary.]

1. A person who deals in money; banker or broker. [Obs. or R.]

2. An authorized coiner of money. Sir M. Hale. The Company of
Moneyers, the officials who formerly coined the money of Great
Britain, and who claimed certain prescriptive rights and privileges.

MONEYLESS
Mon"ey*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of money; penniless; impecunious. Swift.

MONEY-MAKER
Mon"ey-mak`er, n.

1. One who coins or prints money; also, a counterfeiter of money.
[R.]

2. One who accumulates money or wealth; specifically, one who makes
money-getting his governing motive.

MONEY-MAKING
Mon"ey-mak`ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of making money; the acquisition and
accumulation of wealth.
Obstinacy in money-making. Milman.

MONEY-MAKING
Mon"ey-mak`ing, a.

1. Affording profitable returns; lucrative; as, a money-making
business.

2. Sussessful in gaining money, and devoted to that aim; as, a money-
making man.

MONEYWORT
Mon"ey*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A trailing plant (Lysimachia Nummularia), with rounded opposite
leaves and solitary yellow flowers in their axils.

MONGCORN
Mong"corn`, n.

Defn: See Mangcorn.

MONGER
Mon"ger, n. Etym: [AS. mangere, fr. mangian to trade; akin to Icel.
manga to trade, mangari a trader, OHG. mangari, mengari; cf. L. mango
a dealer in slaves.]

1. A trader; a dealer; -- now used chiefly in composition; as,
fishmonger, ironmonger, newsmonger.

2. A small merchant vessel. [Obs.] Blount.

MONGER
Mon"ger, v. t.

Defn: To deal in; to make merchandise of; to traffic in; -- used
chiefly of discreditable traffic.

MONGOL
Mon"gol, n.

Defn: One of the Mongols.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols.

MONGOLIAN
Mon*go"li*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Mongols.

MONGOLIC
Mon*gol"ic, a.

Defn: See Mongolian.

MONGOLOID
Mon"go*loid, a. Etym: [Mongol + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling a Mongol or the Mongols; having race
characteristics, such as color, hair, and features, like those of the
Mongols. Huxley.

MONGOLS; MONGOLIANS
Mon"gols, Mon*go"li*ans, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of the great races of man, including the greater part of
the inhabitants of China, Japan, and the interior of Asia, with
branches in Northern Europe and other parts of the world. By some
American Indians are considered a branch of the Mongols. In a more
restricted sense, the inhabitants of Mongolia and adjacent countries,
including the Burats and the Kalmuks.

MONGOOSE; MONGOOS
Mon"goose, Mon"goos, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of ichneumon (Herpestes griseus), native of India.
Applied also to other allied species, as the African banded mongoose
(Crossarchus fasciatus). [Written also mungoose, mungoos, mungous.]

MONGREL
Mon"grel, n. Etym: [Prob. shortened fr. mongrel, and akin to AS.
mengan to mix, and E. mingle. See Mingle.]

Defn: The progeny resulting from a cross between two breeds, as of
domestic animals; anything of mixed breed. Drayton.

MONGREL
Mon"grel, a.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not of a pure breed.

2. Of mixed kinds; as, mongrel language.

MONGRELIZE
Mon"grel*ize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To cause to be mongrel; to cross breeds, so as to produce
mongrels.

'MONGST
'Mongst, prep.

Defn: See Amongst.

MONIED
Mon"ied, a.

Defn: See Moneyed.

MONIFIER
Mo*nif"i*er, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. monile necklace + ferre to bear.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil fish.

MONILIALES
Mo*nil`i*a"les, n. pl. [NL., fr. L. monile necklace, -- because the
conidia are produced in chains.] (Bot.)

Defn: The largest of the three orders into which the Fungi Imperfecti
are divided, including various forms.

MONILIFORM
Mo*nil"i*form, a. Etym: [L. monile necklace + -form: cf. F.
moniliforme.] (Biol.)

Defn: Joined or constricted, at regular intervals, so as to resemble
a string of beads; as, a moniliform root; a moniliform antenna. See
Illust. of Antenna.

MONIMENT
Mon"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. monimentum, monumentum. See Monument.]

Defn: Something to preserve memory; a reminder; a monument; hence, a
mark; an image; a superscription; a record. [Obs.] Spenser.

MONISH
Mon"ish, v. t. Etym: [OE. monesten. See Admonish, Monition.]

Defn: To admonish; to warn. See Admonish. [Archaic] Ascham.

MONISHER
Mon"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who monishes; an admonisher. [Archaic]

MONISHMENT
Mon"ish*ment, n.

Defn: Admonition. [Archaic]

MONISM
Mon"ism, n. Etym: [From Gr.

1. (Metaph.)

Defn: That doctrine which refers all phenomena to a single ultimate
constituent or agent; -- the opposite of dualism.

Note: The doctrine has been held in three generic forms: matter and
its phenomena have been explained as a modification of mind,
involving an idealistic monism; or mind has been explained by and
resolved into matter, giving a materialistic monism; or, thirdly,
matter, mind, and their phenomena have been held to be manifestations
or modifications of some one substance, like the substance of
Spinoza, or a supposed unknown something of some evolutionists, which
is capable of an objective and subjective aspect.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: See Monogenesis, 1.

MONIST
Mon"ist, n.

Defn: A believer in monism.

MONISTIC
Mo*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or involving, monism.

MONITION
Mo*ni"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. monitio, from monere to warn, bring
to mind; akin to E. mind. See Mind, and cf. Admonish, Money,
Monster.]

1. Instruction or advice given by way of caution; an admonition; a
warning; a caution.
Sage monitions from his friends. Swift.

2. Information; indication; notice; advice.
We have no visible monition of ... other periods, such as we have of
the day by successive light and darkness. Holder.

3. (Admiralty Practice)

Defn: A process in the nature of a summons to appear and answer.

4. (Eccl. Law)

Defn: An order monishing a party complained against to obey under
pain of the law. Shipley.

MONITIVE
Mon"i*tive, a.

Defn: Conveying admonition; admonitory. Barrow.

MONITOR
Mon"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. monere. See Monition, and cf. Mentor.]

1. One who admonishes; one who warns of faults, informs of duty, or
gives advice and instruction by way of reproof or caution.
You need not be a monitor to the king. Bacon.

2. Hence, specifically, a pupil selected to look to the school in the
absence of the instructor, to notice the absence or faults of the
scholars, or to instruct a division or class.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any large Old World lizard of the genus Varanus; esp., the
Egyptian species (V. Niloticus), which is useful because it devours
the eggs and young of the crocodile. It is sometimes five or six feet
long.

4. Etym: [So called from the name given by Captain Ericson, its
designer, to the first ship of the kind.]

Defn: An ironclad war vessel, very low in the water, and having one
or more heavily-armored revolving turrets, carrying heavy guns.

5. (Mach.)

Defn: A tool holder, as for a lathe, shaped like a low turret, and
capable of being revolved on a vertical pivot so as to bring
successively the several tools in holds into proper position for
cutting. Monitor top, the raised central portion, or clearstory, of a
car roof, having low windows along its sides.

MONITORIAL
Mon`i*to"ri*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a monitor or monitors.

2. Done or performed by a monitor; as, monitorial work; conducted or
taught by monitors; as, a monitorial school; monitorial instruction.

MONITORIALLY
Mon`i*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a monitorial manner.

MONITOR NOZZLE
Monitor nozzle.

Defn: A nozzle capable of turning completely round in a horizontal
plane and having a limited play in a vertical plane, used in
hydraulic mining, fire-extinguishing apparatus, etc.

MONITORSHIP
Mon"i*tor*ship, n.

Defn: The post or office of a monitor.

MONITORY
Mon"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. monitorius.]

Defn: Giving admonition; instructing by way of caution; warning.
Losses, miscarriages, and disappointments, are monitory and
instructive. L'Estrange.

MONITORY
Mon"i*to*ry, n.

Defn: Admonition; warning; especially, a monition proceeding from an
ecclesiastical court, but not addressed to any one person.

MONITRESS; MONITRIX
Mon"i*tress, Mon"i*trix, n.

Defn: A female monitor.

MONK
Monk, n. Etym: [AS. munuc, munec, munc, L. monachus, Gr. Monachism.]

1. A man who retires from the ordinary temporal concerns of the
world, and devotes himself to religion; one of a religious community
of men inhabiting a monastery, and bound by vows to a life of
chastity, obedience, and poverty. "A monk out of his cloister."
Chaucer.
Monks in some respects agree with regulars, as in the substantial
vows of religion; but in other respects monks and regulars differ;
for that regulars, vows excepted, are not tied up to so strict a rule
of life as monks are. Ayliffe.

2. (Print.)

Defn: A blotch or spot of ink on a printed page, caused by the ink
not being properly distributed. It is distinguished from a friar, or
white spot caused by a deficiency of ink.

3. A piece of tinder made of agaric, used in firing the powder hose
or train of a mine.

4. (Zoöl.)
(a) A South American monkey (Pithecia monachus); also applied to
other species, as Cebus xanthocephalus.
(b) The European bullfinch. Monk bat (Zoöl.), a South American and
West Indian bat (Molossus nasutus); -- so called because the males
live in communities by themselves.
 -- Monk bird(Zoöl.), the friar bird.
 -- Monk seal (Zoöl.), a species of seal (Monachus albiventer)
inhabiting the Black Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, and the adjacent
parts of the Atlantic.
 -- Monk's rhubarb (Bot.), a kind of dock; -- also called patience
(Rumex Patientia).

MONKERY
Monk"er*y, n.; pl. Monkeries (.

1. The life of monks; monastic life; monastic usage or customs; --
now usually applied by way of reproach.
Miters, and wretched dead mediæval monkeries. Carlyle.

2. A collective body of monks. [Obs.]
Though he have a whole monkery to sing for him. Latimer.

MONKEY
Mon"key, n.; pl. Monkeys. Etym: [Cf. OIt. monicchio, It. monnino,
dim. of monna an ape, also dame, mistress, contr. fr. madonna. See
Madonna.]

1. (Zoöl.)
(a) In the most general sense, any one of the Quadrumana, including
apes, baboons, and lemurs.
(b) Any species of Quadrumana, except the lemurs.
(c) Any one of numerous species of Quadrumana (esp. such as have a
long tail and prehensile feet) exclusive of apes and baboons.

Note: The monkeys are often divided into three groups: (a)
Catarrhines, or Simidæ. These have an oblong head, with the oblique
flat nostrils near together. Some have no tail, as the apes. All
these are natives of the Old World. (b) Platyrhines, or Cebidæ. These
have a round head, with a broad nasal septum, so that the nostrils
are wide apart and directed downward. The tail is often prehensile,
and the thumb is short and not opposable. These are natives of the
New World. (c) Strepsorhines, or Lemuroidea. These have a pointed
head with curved nostrils. They are natives of Southern Asia, Africa,
and Madagascar.

2. A term of disapproval, ridicule, or contempt, as for mischievous
child.
This is the monkey's own giving out; she is persuaded I will marry
her. Shak.

3. The weight or hammer of a pile driver, that is, a very heavy mass
of iron, which, being raised on high, falls on the head of the pile,
and drives it into the earth; the falling weight of a drop hammer
used in forging.

4. A small trading vessel of the sixteenth century. Monkey boat.
(Naut.) (a) A small boat used in docks. (b) A half-decked boat used
on the River Thames.
 -- Monkey block (Naut.), a small single block strapped with a
swivel. R. H. Dana, Jr.
 -- Monkey flower (Bot.), a plant of the genus Mimulus; -- so called
from the appearance of its gaping corolla. Gray.
 -- Monkey gaff (Naut.), a light gaff attached to the topmast for the
better display of signals at sea.
 -- Monkey jacket, a short closely fitting jacket, worn by sailors.
 -- Monkey rail (Naut.), a second and lighter rail raised about six
inches above the quarter rail of a ship.
 -- Monkey shine, monkey trick. [Slang, U.S.] -- Monkey trick, a
mischievous prank. Saintsbury.
 -- Monkey wheel. See Gin block, under 5th Gin.
 -- Monkey wrench, a wrench or spanner having a movable jaw.

MONKEY
Mon"key, v. t. & i.

Defn: To act or treat as a monkey does; to ape; to act in a grotesque
or meddlesome manner. To monkey with, to handle in a meddlesome
manner. [Colloq.]

MONKEY-BREAD
Mon"key-bread`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of the Adansonia digitata; also, the tree. See
Adansonia.

MONKEY-CUP
Mon"key-cup`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Nepenthes.

MONKEY-POT
Mon"key-pot`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The fruit of two South American trees (Lecythis Ollaria, and L.
Zabucajo), which have for their fruit large, pot-shaped, woody
capsules containing delicious nuts, and opening almost explosively by
a circular lid at the top. Vases and pots are made of this capsule.

MONKEY'S PUZZLE
Mon"key's puz"zle. (Bot.)

Defn: A lofty coniferous Chilian tree (Araucaria imbricata), the
branches of which are so crowded and intertwisted "as to puzzle a
monkey to climb." The edible nuts are over an inch long, and are
called piñon by the Chilians.

MONKEYTAIL
Mon"key*tail`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A short, round iron bar or lever used in naval gunnery. Totten.

MONKFISH
Monk"fish, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The angel fish (Squatina).
(b) The angler (Lophius).

MONKFLOWER
Monk"flow`er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name of certain curious orchids which bear three kinds of
flowers formerly referred to three genera, but now ascertained to be
sexually different forms of the same genus (Catasetum tridentatum,
etc.).

MONKHOOD
Monk"hood, n. Etym: [Monk + -hood.]

1. The character or condition of a monk. Atterbury.

2. Monks, regarded collectively. Longfellow.

MONKING
Monk"ing, a.

Defn: Monkish. [R.] Coleridge.

MONKISH
Monk"ish, a.

Defn: Like a monk, or pertaining to monks; monastic; as, monkish
manners; monkish dress; monkish solitude.
 -- Monk"ish*ness, n.

MONKLY
Monk"ly, a.

Defn: Like, or suitable to, a monk. [R.]

MONKSHOOD
Monks"hood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Aconitum; aconite. See Aconite.

MONK'S SEAM
Monk's" seam`. (Naut.)

Defn: An extra middle seam made at the junction of two breadths of
canvas, ordinarily joined by only two rows of stitches.

MONO-; MON-
Mon"o-, Mon-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A prefix signifying one, single, alone; as, monocarp, monopoly;
(Chem.) indicating that a compound contains one atom, radical, or
group of that to the name of which it is united; as, monoxide,
monosulphide, monatomic, etc.

MONO
Mo"no, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The black howler of Central America (Mycetes villosus).

MONOBASIC
Mon`o*ba"sic, a. Etym: [Mono- + basic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Capable of being neutralized by a univalent base or basic
radical; having but one acid hydrogen atom to be replaced; -- said of
acids; as, acetic, nitric, and hydrochloric acids are monobasic.

MONOCARBONIC
Mon`o*car*bon"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + carbonic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Containing one carboxyl group; as, acetic acid is a
monocarbonic acid.

MONOCARDIAN
Mon`o*car"di*an, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a single heart, as fishes and amphibians.
 -- n.

Defn: An animal having a single heart.

MONOCARP
Mon"o*carp, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A monocarpic plant.

MONOCARPELLARY
Mon`o*car"pel*la*ry, a. Etym: [Mono- + carpellary.] (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of a single carpel, as the fruit of the pea, cherry,
and almond.

MONOCARPIC; MONOCARPOUS
Mon`o*car"pic, Mon`o*car"pous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monocarpe.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Bearing fruit but once, and dying after fructification, as
beans, maize, mustard, etc.

Note: Annual and biennual herbs are monocarpic, so also some plants
of longer duration, as the century plant.

MONOCEPHALOUS
Mon`o*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a solitary head; -- said of unbranched composite plants.

MONOCEROS
Mo*noc"e*ros, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A one-horned creature; a unicorn; a sea monster with one horn.
Mighty monoceroses with immeasured tails. Spenser.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The Unicorn, a constellation situated to the east Orion.

MONOCHLAMYDEOUS
Mon`o*chla*myd"e*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monochlamydé.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a single floral envelope, that is, a calyx without a
corolla, or, possibly, in rare cases, a corolla without a calyx.

MONOCHORD
Mon"o*chord, n. Etym: [L. monochordon, Gr. monocorde. See Chord, and
cf. Mainchord.] (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument for experimenting upon the mathematical relations
of musical sounds. It consists of a single string stretched between
two bridges, one or both of which are movable, and which stand upon a
graduated rule for the purpose of readily changing and measuring the
length of the part of the string between them.

MONOCHROMATIC
Mon`o*chro*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monochromatique. See Monochrome.]

Defn: Consisting of one color, or presenting rays of light of one
color only. Monochromatic lamp (Opt.),a lamp whose flame yields rays
of some one homogenous light. It is of great importance in optical
experiments.

MONOCHROME
Mon"o*chrome, n. Etym: [Gr. monochrome.]

Defn: A painting or drawing in a single color; a picture made with a
single color.

MONOCHROMIC
Mon`o*chro"mic, a.

Defn: Made, or done, with a single color; as, a monochromic picture.

MONOCHROMY
Mon"o*chro`my, n.

Defn: The art of painting or drawing in monochrome.

MONOCHRONIC
Mon`o*chron"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: Existing at the same time; contemporaneous.

MONOCILIATED
Mon`o*cil"i*a`ted, a. Etym: [Mono- + ciliated.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having but one cilium.

MONOCLE
Mon"o*cle, n. Etym: [F. See Monocular.]

Defn: An eyeglass for one eye. Simmonds.

MONOCLINAL
Mon`o*cli"nal, a. Etym: [See Monoclinic.] (Geol.)

Defn: Having one oblique inclination; -- applied to strata that dip
in only one direction from the axis of elevation.

MONOCLINE
Mon"o*cline, n. (Geol.)

Defn: A monoclinal fold.

MONOCLINIC
Mon`o*clin"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Having one oblique intersection; -- said of that system of
crystallization in which the vertical axis is inclined to one, but at
right angles to the other, lateral axis. See Crystallization.

MONOCLINOUS
Mo*noc"li*nous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monocline.] (Bot.)

Defn: Hermaphrodite, or having both stamens and pistils in every
flower.

MONOCONDYLA
Mon`o*con"dy*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Mono-, and Condyle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of vertebrates, including the birds and reptiles, or
those that have only one occipital condyle; the Sauropsida.

MONOCOTYL
Mon"o*co*tyl, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any monocotyledonous plant.

MONOCOTYLE
Mon"o*co*tyle, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monocotyle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Monocotyledonous.

MONOCOTYLEDON
Mon`o*cot`y*le"don, n. Etym: [Mono- + cotyledon: cf. F.
monocotylédone.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with only one cotyledon, or seed lobe.

Note: The plural, monocotyledons, is used as the name of a large
class of plants, and is generally understood to be equivalent to the
term endogens.

MONOCOTYLEDONOUS
Mon`o*cot`y*le"don*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monocotylédoné.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having only one cotyledon, seed lobe, or seminal leaf. Lindley.

MONOCRACY
Mo*noc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Mono- + -cracy, as in democracy.]

Defn: Government by a single person; undivided rule. Sydney Smith.

MONOCRAT
Mon"o*crat, n. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: One who governs alone.

MONOCROTIC
Mon`o*crot"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or showing, monocrotism; as, a monocrotic
pulse; a pulse of the monocrotic type.

MONOCROTISM
Mo*noc"ro*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: That condition of the pulse in which the pulse curve or
sphygmogram shows but a single crest, the dicrotic elevation entirely
disappearing.

MONOCULAR
Mo*noc"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. monoculus; Gr. oculus eye: cf. F.
monoculaire.]

1. Having only one eye; with one eye only; as, monocular vision.

2. Adapted to be used with only one eye at a time; as, a monocular
microscope.

MONOCULE
Mon"o*cule, n. Etym: [See Monocular.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small crustacean with one median eye.

MONOCULOUS
Mo*noc"u*lous, a.

Defn: Monocular. Glanvill.

MONOCYSTIC
Mon`o*cys"tic, a. Etym: [See Mono-, and Cyst.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a division (Monocystidea) of Gregarinida,
in which the body consists of one sac.

MONODACTYLOUS
Mon`o*dac"tyl*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. monodactyle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having but one finger or claw.

MONODELPH; MONODELPHIAN
Mon"o*delph, Mon`o*del"phi*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Monodelphia.

MONODELPHIA
Mon`o*del"phi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group that includes all ordinary or placental mammals; the
Placentalia. See Mammalia.

MONODELPHIC; MONODELPHOUS
Mon`o*del"phic, Mon`o*del"phous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monodelphia.

MONODIC; MONODICAL
Mo*nod"ic, Mo*nod"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Belonging to a monody.

2. (Mus.)
(a) For one voice; monophonic.
(b) Homophonic; -- applied to music in which the melody is confined
to one part, instead of being shared by all the parts as in the style
called polyphonic.

MONODIMETRIC
Mon`o*di*met"ric, a. Etym: [Mono- + dimetric.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: Dimetric.

MONODIST
Mon"o*dist, n.

Defn: A writer of a monody.

MONODRAMA; MONODRAME
Mon"o*dra`ma, Mon"o*drame, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: A drama acted, or intended to be acted, by a single person.

MONODRAMATIC
Mon`o*dra*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a monodrama.

MONODY
Mon"o*dy, n.; pl. Monodies. Etym: [L. monodia, Gr. monodie. See Ode.]

Defn: A species of poem of a mournful character, in which a single
mourner expresses lamentation; a song for one voice.

MONODYNAMIC
Mon`o*dy*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + dynamic.]

Defn: Possessing but one capacity or power. "Monodynamic men." De
Quincey.

MONODYNAMISM
Mon`o*dy"na*mism, n.

Defn: The theory that the various forms of activity in nature are
manifestations of the same force. G. H. Lewes.

MONOECIA
Mo*noe"ci*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants, whose stamens and pistils are in
distinct flowers in the same plant.

MONOECIAN
Mo*noe"cian, a.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monoecia; monoecious.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Monoecia.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A monoecious animal, as certain mollusks.

MONOECIOUS
Mo*noe"cious, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Having the sexes united in one individual, as when male and
female flowers grow upon the same individual plant; hermaphrodite; --
opposed to Ant: dioecious.

MONOECISM
Mo*noe"cism, n. (Biol.)

Defn: The state or condition of being monoecious.

MONOGAM
Mon"o*gam, n. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the Monogamia.

MONOGAMIA
Mon`o*ga"mi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Monogamous.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan order of plants, having solitary flowers with united
anthers, as in the genus Lobelia.

MONOGAMIAN; MONOGAMIC
Mon`o*ga"mi*an, Mon`o*gam"ic, a. Etym: [See Monogamous.]

1. Pertaining to, or involving, monogamy.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monogamia; having a simple flower with
united anthers.

MONOGAMIST
Mo*nog"a*mist, n.

Defn: One who practices or upholds monogamy. Goldsmith.

MONOGAMOUS
Mo*nog"a*mous, a. Etym: [L. monogamus having but one wife, Gr.

1. Upholding, or practicing, monogamy.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Monogamian.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Mating with but one of the opposite sex; -- said of birds and
mammals.

MONOGAMY
Mo*nog"a*my, n. Etym: [L. monogamia, Gr. monogamie.]

1. Single marriage; marriage with but one person, husband or wife, at
the same time; -- opposed to polygamy. Also, one marriage only during
life; -- opposed to deuterogamy.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: State of being paired with a single mate.

MONOGASTRIC
Mon`o*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: Having but a single stomach.

MONOGENESIS
Mon`o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Mono- + genesis.]

1. Oneness of origin; esp. (Biol.), development of all beings in the
universe from a single cell; -- opposed to polygenesis. Called also
monism. Dana. Haeckel.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: That form of reproduction which requires but one parent, as in
reproduction by fission or in the formation of buds, etc., which drop
off and form new individuals; asexual reproduction. Haeckel.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: The direct development of an embryo, without metamorphosis,
into an organism similar to the parent organism; -- opposed to
metagenesis. E. van Beneden.

MONOGENETIC
Mon`o*ge*net"ic, a. Etym: [See Monogenesis.]

1. (Geol.)

Defn: One in genesis; resulting from one process of formation; --
used of a mountain range. Dana.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to, or involving, monogenesis; as, the monogenetic
school of physiologists, who admit but one cell as the source of all
beings.

MONOGENIC
Mon`o*gen"ic, a.

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to monogenesis.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Producing only one kind of germs, or young; developing only in
one way.

MONOGENISM
Mo*nog"e*nism, n. (Anthropol.)

Defn: The theory or doctrine that the human races have a common
origin, or constitute a single species.

MONOGENIST
Mo*nog"e*nist, n. (Anthropol.)

Defn: One who maintains that the human races are all of one species;
-- opposed to polygenist.

MONOGENISTIC
Mon`o*ge*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Monogenic.

MONOGENOUS
Mo*nog"e*nous, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to monogenesis; as, monogenous, or asexual,
reproduction.

MONOGENY
Mo*nog"e*ny, n.

1. Monogenesis.

2. (Anthropol.)

Defn: The doctrine that the members of the human race have all a
common origin.

MONOGONEUTIC
Mon`o*go*neu"tic, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having but one brood in a season.

MONOGRAM
Mon"o*gram, n. Etym: [L. monogramma; Gr. monogramme. See Graphic.]

1. A character or cipher composed of two or more letters interwoven
or combined so as to represent a name, or a part of it (usually the
initials). Monograms are often used on seals, ornamental pins, rings,
buttons, and by painters, engravers, etc., to distinguish their
works. Monogram.

Note: The monogram above, combining the letters of the name Karolvs,
was used by Charlemagne.

2. A picture in lines; a sketch. [R.]

3. An arbitrary sign for a word. [R.]

MONOGRAMMAL
Mon"o*gram`mal, a.

Defn: See Monogrammic.

MONOGRAMMATIC
Mon`o*gram*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Monogrammic.

MONOGRAMMIC
Mon`o*gram"mic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a monogram.

MONOGRAMMOUS
Mon"o*gram`mous, a.

Defn: Monogrammic.

MONOGRAPH
Mon"o*graph, n. Etym: [Mono- + -graph.]

Defn: A written account or description of a single thing, or class of
things; a special treatise on a particular subject of limited range.

MONOGRAPHER
Mo*nog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: A writer of a monograph.

MONOGRAPHIC; MONOGRAPHICAL
Mon`o*graph"ic, Mon`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a monograph, or to a monography; as, a
monographic writing; a monographic picture.
 -- Mon`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

MONOGRAPHIST
Mo*nog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One who writes a monograph.

MONOGRAPHOUS
Mo*nog"ra*phous, a.

Defn: Monographic. [Obs.]

MONOGRAPHY
Mo*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Mono- + -graphy: cf. F. monographie.]

1. Representation by lines without color; an outline drawing.

2. A monograph. [Obs.]

MONOGYN
Mon"o*gyn, n. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the Monogynia.

MONOGYNIA
Mon`o*gyn"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan order of plants, including those which have only one
style or stigma.

MONOGYNIAN
Mon`o*gyn"i*an, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Monogynia; monogynous.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Monogynia.

MONOGYNOUS
Mo*nog"y*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monogyne.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Monogynia; having only one style or stigma.

MONOGYNY
Mo*nog"y*ny, n. Etym: [See Monogynia.]

1. Marriage with the one woman only.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The state or condition of being monogynous.

MONOHEMEROUS
Mon`o*hem"er*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Lasting but one day.

MONOICOUS
Mo*noi"cous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Monoecious.

MONOLATRY
Mo*nol"a*try, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: Worship of a single deity.

MONOLITH
Mon"o*lith, n. Etym: [F. monolithe, L. monolithus consisting of a
single stone, Gr.

Defn: A single stone, especially one of large size, shaped into a
pillar, statue, or monument.

MONOLITHAL
Mon"o*lith`al, a.

Defn: Monolithic.

MONOLITHIC
Mon`o*lith"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a monolith; consisting of a single stone.

MONOLOGIST
Mo*nol"o*gist, n. Etym: [See Monologue.]

Defn: One who soliloquizes; esp., one who monopolizes conversation in
company. De Quincey.

MONOLOGUE
Mon"o*logue, n. Etym: [F. monologue, Gr. Legend.]

1. A speech uttered by a person alone; soliloquy; also, talk or
discourse in company, in the strain of a soliloquy; as, an account in
monologue. Dryden.

2. A dramatic composition for a single performer.

MONOLOGY
Mo*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The habit of soliloquizing, or of monopolizing conversation.
It was not by an insolent usurpation that Coleridge persisted in
monology through his whole life. De Quincey.

MONOMACHIA; MONOMACHY
Mon`o*ma"chi*a, Mo*nom"a*chy, n. Etym: [L. monomachia, Gr.

Defn: A duel; single combat. "The duello or monomachia." Sir W.
Scott.

MONOMACHIST
Mo*nom"a*chist, n.

Defn: One who fights in single combat; a duelist.

MONOMANE
Mon"o*mane, n.

Defn: A monomaniac. [R.]

MONOMANIA
Mon`o*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Mono- + mania.]

Defn: Derangement of the mind in regard of a single subject only;
also, such a concentration of interest upon one particular subject or
train of ideas to show mental derangement.

Syn.
 -- Insanity; madness; alienation; aberration; derangement; mania.
See Insanity.

MONOMANIAC
Mon`oma"ni*ac, n.

Defn: A person affected by monomania.

MONOMANIAC; MONOMANIACAL
Mon`oma"ni*ac, Mon`oma"ni*a*cal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monomaniaque.]

Defn: Affected with monomania, or partial derangement of intellect;
caused by, or resulting from, monomania; as, a monomaniacal delusion.

MONOME
Mon"ome, n. Etym: [F., fr. Gr. -nome as in binome. See Binomial.]
(Math.)

Defn: A monomial.

MONOMEROUS
Mo*nom"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Composed of solitary parts, as a flower with one sepal, one
petal, one stamen, and one pistil.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having but one joint; -- said of the foot of certain insects.

MONOMETALLIC
Mon`o*me*tal"lic, a.

Defn: Consisting of one metal; of or pertaining to monometallism.

MONOMETALLISM
Mon`o*met"al*lism, n. Etym: [Mono- + metal.]

Defn: The legalized use of one metal only, as gold, or silver, in the
standard currency of a country, or as a standard of money values. See
Bimetallism.

MONOMETALLIST
Mon`o*met"al*list, n.

Defn: One who believes in monometallism as opposed to bimetallism,
etc.

MONOMETER
Mo*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A rhythmic series, consisting of a single meter.

MONOMETRIC
Mon`o*met"ric, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monométrique.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: Same as Isometric.

MONOMIAL
Mo*no"mi*al, n. Etym: [See Monome, Binomial.] (Alg.)

Defn: A single algebraic expression; that is, an expression
unconnected with any other by the sign of addition, substraction,
equality, or inequality.

MONOMIAL
Mo*no"mi*al, a. (Alg.)

Defn: Consisting of but a single term or expression.

MONOMORPHIC; MONOMORPHOUS
Mon`o*mor"phic, Mon`o*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Having but a single form; retaining the same form throughout
the various stages of development; of the same or of an essentially
similar type of structure; -- opposed to dimorphic, trimorphic, and
polymorphic.

MONOMPHALUS
Mo*nom"pha*lus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A form of double monster, in which two individuals are united
by a common umbilicus.

MONOMYA; MONOMYARIA
Mo*no"my*a, Mon`o*my*a"ri*a, n.pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of lamellibranchs having but one muscle for closing
the shell, as the oyster.

MONOMYARIAN; MONOMYARY
Mon`o*my"a*ri*an, Mon`o*my"a*ry, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monomya.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Monomya.

MONONOMIAL
Mon`o*no"mi*al, n. & a.

Defn: Monomyal.

MONOOUSIAN; MONOOUSIOUS
Mon`o*ou"si*an, Mon`o*ou"si*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Theil.)

Defn: Having but one and the same nature or essence.

MONOPATHY
Mo*nop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Suffering or sensibility in a single organ or function.
 -- Mon`o*path"ic, a.

MONOPERSONAL
Mon`o*per"son*al, a. Etym: [Mono- + personal.]

Defn: Having but one person, or form of existence.

MONOPETALOUS
Mon`o*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + petal: cf. F. monopétale.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having only one petal, or the corolla in one piece, or composed
of petals cohering so as to form a tube or bowl; gamopetalous.

Note: The most recent authors restrict this form to flowers having a
solitary petal, as in species of Amorpha, and use gamopetalous for a
corolla of several petals combined into one piece. See Illust. of
Gamopetalous.

MONOPHANOUS
Mo*noph"a*nous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: Having one the same appearance; having a mutual resemblance.

MONOPHONIC
Mon`o*phon"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: Single-voiced; having but one part; as, a monophonic
composition; -- opposed to Ant: polyphonic.

MONOPHTHONG
Mon"oph*thong, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A single uncompounded vowel sound.

2. A combination of two written vowels pronounced as one; a digraph.

MONOPHTHONGAL
Mon`oph*thon"gal, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or pertaining to, a monophthong.

MONOPHYLETIC
Mon`o*phy*let"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a single family or stock, or to development
from a single common parent form; -- opposed to polyphyletic; as,
monophyletic origin.

MONOPHYLLOUS
Mo*noph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. monophylle.] (Bot.)

Defn: One-leaved; composed of a single leaf; as, a monophyllous
involucre or calyx.

MONOPHYODONT
Mon`o*phy"o*dont, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having but one set of teeth; -- opposed to diphyodont.

MONOPHYSITE
Mo*noph"y*site, n. Etym: [Gr. monophysite.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect, in the ancient church, who maintained that the
human and divine in Jesus Christ constituted but one composite
nature. Also used adjectively.

MONOPHYSITICAL
Mon`o*phy*sit"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Monophysites, or their doctrines.

MONOPLAST
Mon"o*plast, n. Etym: [Mono- + -plast.] (Biol.)

Defn: A monoplastic element.

MONOPLASTIC
Mon`o*plas"tic, a. Etym: [Mono- + -plastic.] (Biol.)

Defn: That has one form, or retains its primary form, as, a
monoplastic element.

MONOPLEGIA
Mon`ople"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Paralysis affecting a single limb.

MONOPNEUMONA
Mon`op*neu"mo*na, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Mono-, and Pneumonia.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of Dipnoi, including the Ceratodus. [Written also
monopneumonia.]

MONOPODE
Mon"o*pode, n.

1. One of a fabulous tribe or race of Ethiopians having but one leg
and foot. Sir J. Mandeville. Lowell.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A monopodium.

MONOPODIAL
Mon`o*po"di*al, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a monopodium or a single and continuous axis, as a
birchen twig or a cornstalk.

MONOPODIUM
Mon`o*po"di*um, n.; pl. L. Monopodia, E. -ums. Etym: [L. See
Monopody.] (Bot.)

Defn: A single and continuous vegetable axis; -- opposed to
sympodium.

MONOPODY
Mo*nop"o*dy, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: A measure of but a single foot.

MONOPOLER
Mo*nop"o*ler, n.

Defn: A monopolist. [Obs.]

MONOPOLIST
Mo*nop"o*list, n.

Defn: One who monopolizes; one who has a monopoly; one who favors
monopoly.

MONOPOLISTIC
Mo*nop`o*lis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a monopolist. North Am. Rev.

MONOPOLITE
Mo*nop"o*lite, n.

Defn: A monopolist. Sylvester.

MONOPOLIZE
Mo*nop"o*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Monopolized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Monopolizing.] Etym: [From Monopoly.]

Defn: To acquire a monopoly of; to have or get the exclusive
privilege or means of dealing in, or the exclusive possession of; to
engross the whole of; as, to monopolize the coffee trade; to
monopolize land.

MONOPOLIZER
Mo*nop"o*li`zer, n.

Defn: One who monopolizes.

MONOPOLY
Mo*nop"o*ly, n.; pl. Monopolies. Etym: [L. monopolium, Gr.

1. The exclusive power, or privilege of selling a commodity; the
exclusive power, right, or privilege of dealing in some article, or
of trading in some market; sole command of the traffic in anything,
however obtained; as, the proprietor of a patented article is given a
monopoly of its sale for a limited time; chartered trading companies
have sometimes had a monopoly of trade with remote regions; a
combination of traders may get a monopoly of a particular product.
Raleigh held a monopoly of cards, Essex a monopoly of sweet wines.
Macaulay.

2. Exclusive possession; as, a monopoly of land.
If I had a monopoly out, they would have part on 't. Shak.

3. The commodity or other material thing to which the monopoly
relates; as, tobacco is a monopoly in France. [Colloq.]

MONOPOLYLOGUE
Mon`o*pol"y*logue, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. poly`s many + lo`gos
speech.]

Defn: An exhibition in which an actor sustains many characters.

MONOPSYCHISM
Mon`o*psy"chism, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

Defn: The doctrine that there is but one immortal soul or intellect
with which all men are endowed.

MONOPTERAL
Mo*nop"ter*al, a. Etym: [Gr. monoptère.] (Arch.)

Defn: Round and without a cella; consisting of a single ring of
columns supporting a roof; -- said esp. of a temple.

MONOPTERON
Mo*nop"ter*on, n.; pl. Monoptera. Etym: [NL. See Monopteral.] (Arch.)

Defn: A circular temple consisting of a roof supported on columns,
without a cella.

MONOPTOTE
Mon"op*tote, n. Etym: [L. monoptotum, Gr. mo`nos single + (Gram.)

1. A noun having only one case. Andrews.

2. A noun having only one ending for the oblique cases.

MONOPYRENOUS
Mon`o*py*re"nous, a. Etym: [Mono- + pyrene.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having but a single stone or kernel.

MONORGANIC
Mon`or*gan"ic, a. Etym: [Mon- + organic.] (Biol. & Med.)

Defn: Belonging to, or affecting, a single organ, or set of organs.

MONORHINA
Mon`o*rhi"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Marsipobranchiata.

MONORHYME
Mon"o*rhyme, n. Etym: [Mono- + rhyme: cf. F. monorime.]

Defn: A composition in verse, in which all the lines end with the
same rhyme.

MONOSACCHARIDE; MONOSACCHARID
Mon`o*sac"cha*ride, n. Also -rid . [Mono- + saccharide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A simple sugar; any of a number of sugars (including the
trioses, tetroses, pentoses, hexoses, etc.), not decomposable into
simpler sugars by hydrolysis. Specif., as used by some, a hexose. The
monosaccharides are all open-chain compounds containing hydroxyl
groups and either an aldehyde group or a ketone group.

MONOSEPALOUS
Mon`o*sep"al*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + sepal: cf. F. monosépale.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having only one sepal, or the calyx in one piece or composed of
the sepals united into one piece; gamosepalous.

Note: The most recent writers restrict this term to flowers having a
solarity sepal, and use gamosepalous for a calyx formed by several
sepals combined into one piece. Cf. Monopetalous.

MONOSPERM
Mon"o*sperm, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A monospermous plant.

MONOSPERMAL; MONOSPERMOUS
Mon`o*sper"mal, Mon`o*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monosperme.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having only one seed.

MONOSPHERICAL
Mon`o*spher"ic*al, a. Etym: [Mono- + spherical.]

Defn: Consisting of one sphere only.

MONOSTICH
Mon"o*stich, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A composition consisting of one verse only.

MONOSTICHOUS
Mo*nos"ti*chous, a. Etym: [See Monostich.] (Bot.)

Defn: Arranged in a single row on one side of an axis, as the flowers
in grasses of the tribe Chloridæ.

MONOSTROPHE
Mo*nos"tro*phe, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A metrical composition consisting of a single strophe.

MONOSTROPHIC
Mon`o*stroph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: Having one strophe only; not varied in measure; written in
unvaried measure. Milton.

MONOSULPHIDE
Mon`o*sul"phide, n. Etym: [Mono- + sulphide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A sulphide containing one atom of sulphur, and analogous to a
monoxide; -- contrasted with a Ant: polysulphide; as, galena is a
monosulphide.

MONOSULPHURET
Mon`o*sul"phu*ret, n. Etym: [Mono- + sulphuret.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Monosulphide.

MONOSYLLABIC
Mon`o*syl*lab"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monosyllabique.]

Defn: Being a monosyllable, or composed of monosyllables; as, a
monosyllabic word; a monosyllabic language.
 -- Mon`o*syl*lab"ic*al*ly, adv.

MONOSYLLABISM
Mon`o*syl"la*bism, n.

Defn: The state of consisting of monosyllables, or having a
monosyllabic form; frequent occurrence of monosyllables.

MONOSYLLABLE
Mon"o*syl`la*ble, n. Etym: [L. monosyllabus of one syllable, Gr.
monosyllabe. See Mono-, Syllable.]

Defn: A word of one syllable.

MONOSYLLABLED
Mon"o*syl`la*bled, a.

Defn: Formed into, or consisting of, monosyllables. Cleveland.

MONOSYMMETRIC; MONOSYMMETRICAL
Mon`o*sym*met"ric, Mon`o*sym*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Mono- + symmetric,
-ical.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: Same as Monoclinic.

MONOTESSARON
Mon`o*tes"sa*ron, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A single narrative framed from the statements of the four
evangelists; a gospel harmony. [R.]

MONOTHALAMA
Mon`o*thal"a*ma, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Foraminifera including those that have only one
chamber.

MONOTHALAMAN
Mon`o*thal"a*man, n. Etym: [See Monothalamous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A foraminifer having but one chamber.

MONOTHALAMOUS
Mon`o*thal"a*mous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monothalame.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One-chambered.

MONOTHALMIC
Mon`o*thal"mic, a. Etym: [See Monothalamous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Formed from one pistil; -- said of fruits. R. Brown.

MONOTHECAL
Mon`o*the"cal, a. Etym: [Mono- + Br. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a single loculament.

MONOTHEISM
Mon"o*the*ism, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monothéisme.]

Defn: The doctrine or belief that there is but one God.

MONOTHEIST
Mon"o*the*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monothéiste.]

Defn: One who believes that there is but one God.

MONOTHEISTIC
Mon`o*the*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to monotheism.

MONOTHELISM; MONOTHELITISM
Mo*noth"e*lism, Mo*noth"e*li*tism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monothélisme,
monothélitisme.]

Defn: The doctrine of the Monothelites.

MONOTHELITE
Mo*noth"e*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. monothélite.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of an ancient sect who held that Christ had but one will as
he had but one nature. Cf. Monophysite. Gibbon.

MONOTHELITIC
Mon`o*the*lit"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monothelites, or their doctrine.

MONOTOCOUS
Mo*not"o*cous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing fruit but once; monocarpic.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Uniparous; laying a single egg.

MONOTOMOUS
Mo*not"o*mous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Having a distinct cleavage in a single direction only.

MONOTONE
Mon"o*tone, n. Etym: [See Monotonous, Monotony.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A single unvaried tone or sound.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: The utterance of successive syllables, words, or sentences, on
one unvaried key or line of pitch.

MONOTONIC; MONOTONICAL
Mon`o*ton"ic, Mon`o*ton"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or uttered in, a monotone; monotonous.
"Monotonical declamation." Chesterfield.

MONOTONIST
Mo*not"o*nist, n.

Defn: One who talks in the same strain or on the same subject until
weariness is produced. Richardson.

MONOTONOUS
Mo*not"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. Tone.]

Defn: Uttered in one unvarying tone; continued with dull uniformity;
characterized by monotony; without change or variety; wearisome.
 -- Mo*not"o*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Mo*not"o*nous*ness, n.

MONOTONY
Mo*not"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. monotonie. See Monotonius.]

1. A frequent recurrence of the same tone or sound, producing a dull
uniformity; absence of variety, as in speaking or singing.

2. Any irksome sameness, or want of variety.
At sea, everything that breaks the monotony of the surrounding
expanse attracts attention. W. Irving.

MONOTREMATA
Mon`o*trem"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A subclass of Mammalia, having a cloaca in which the ducts of
the urinary, genital, and alimentary systems terminate, as in birds.
The female lays eggs like a bird. See Duck mole, under Duck, and
Echidna.

MONOTREMATOUS
Mon`o*trem"a*tous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Monotremata.

MONOTREME
Mon"o*treme, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monotrème.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Monotremata.

MONOTRIGLYPH
Mon`o*tri"glyph, n. Etym: [Mono- + triglyph: cf. F. monotriglyphe.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A kind of intercolumniation in an entablature, in which only
one triglyph and two metopes are introduced.

MONOTROPA
Mo*not"ro*pa, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of parasitic or saprophytic plants including the Indian
pipe and pine sap. The name alludes to the dropping end of the stem.

MONOTYPE; MONOTYPIC
Mon"o*type, Mon`o*typ"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + -type: cf. F. monotype.]
(Biol.)

Defn: Having but one type; containing but one representative; as, a
monotypic genus, which contains but one species.

MONOVALENT
Mo*nov"a*lent, a. Etym: [Mono- + L. valens, p. pr. See Valence.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Having a valence of one; univalent. See Univalent.

MONOXIDE
Mo*nox"ide, n. Etym: [Mon- + oxide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oxide containing one atom of oxygen in each molecule; as,
barium monoxide.

MONOXYLON
Mo*nox"y*lon, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

Defn: A canoe or boat made from one piece of timber.

MONOXYLOUS
Mo*nox"y*lous, a. Etym: [See Monoxylon.]

Defn: Made of one piece of wood.

MONOZOA
Mon`o*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Radiolaria; -- called also Monocyttaria.
 -- Mon`o*zo"ic, a.

MONROE DOCTRINE
Mon*roe" doc"trine.

Defn: See under Doctrine.

MONSEIGNEUR
Mon`sei`gneur", n.; pl. Messeigneurs. Etym: [F., fr. mon my +
seigneur lord, L. senior older. See Senior, and cf. Monsieur.]

Defn: My lord; -- a title in France of a person of high birth or
rank; as, Monseigneur the Prince, or Monseigneur the Archibishop. It
was given, specifically, to the dauphin, before the Revolution of
1789. (Abbrev. Mgr.)

MONSEL'S SALT
Mon"sel's salt`. (Med.)

Defn: A basic sulphate of iron; -- so named from Monsel, a Frenchman.

MONSEL'S SOLUTION
Mon"sel's so*lu"tion. Etym: [See Monsel's salt.] (Med.)

Defn: An aqueous solution of Monsel's salt, having valuable styptic
properties.

MONSIEUR
Mon*sieur", n.; pl. Messieurs. Etym: [F., fr. mon my + Sieur, abbrev.
of seigneur lord. See Monseigneur.]

1. The common title of civility in France in speaking to, or of, a
man; Mr. or Sir. [Represented by the abbreviation M. or Mons. in the
singular, and by MM. or Messrs. in the plural.]

2. The oldest brother of the king of France.

3. A Frenchman. [Contemptuous] Shak.

MONSIGNORE
Mon`si*gno"re, n.; pl. Monsignors. Etym: [It., my lord. Cf.
Monseigneur.]

Defn: My lord; -- an ecclesiastical dignity bestowed by the pope,
entitling the bearer to social and domestic rank at the papal court.
(Abbrev. Mgr.)

MONSOON
Mon*soon", n. Etym: [Malay musim, fr. Ar. mausim a time, season: cf.
F. monson, mousson, Sr. monzon, Pg. monç\'eeo, It. monsone.]

Defn: A wind blowing part of the year from one direction, alternating
with a wind from the opposite direction; -- a term applied
particularly to periodical winds of the Indian Ocean, which blow from
the southwest from the latter part of May to the middle of September,
and from the northeast from about the middle of October to the middle
of December.

MONSTER
Mon"ster, n. Etym: [OE. monstre, F. monstre, fr. L. monstrum, orig.,
a divine omen, indicating misfortune; akin of monstrare to show,
point out, indicate, and monere to warn. See Monition, and cf.
Demonstrate, Muster.]

1. Something of unnatural size, shape, or quality; a prodigy; an
enormity; a marvel.
A monster or marvel. Chaucer.

2. Specifically , an animal or plant departing greatly from the usual
type, as by having too many limbs.

3. Any thing or person of unnatural or excessive ugliness, deformity,
wickedness, or cruelty.

MONSTER
Mon"ster, a.

Defn: Monstrous in size. Pope.

MONSTER
Mon"ster, v. t.

Defn: To make monstrous. [Obs.] Shak.

MONSTRANCE
Mon"strance, n. Etym: [LL. monstrantia, fr. L. monstrare to show: cf.
OF. monstrance. See Monster.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A transparent pyx, in which the consecrated host is exposed to
view.

MONSTRATION
Mon*stra"tion, n. Etym: [L. monstratio.]

Defn: The act of demonstrating; proof. [Obs.]
A certain monstration. Grafton.

MONSTROSITY
Mon*stros"i*ty, n.; pl. Monstrosities. Etym: [Cf. F. monstruosité.
See Monstrous.]

Defn: The state of being monstrous, or out of the common order of
nature; that which is monstrous; a monster. South.
A monstrosity never changes the name or affects the immutability of a
species. Adanson (Trans. ).

MONSTROUS
Mon"strous, a. Etym: [OE. monstruous, F. monstrueux, fr. L.
monstruosus, fr. monstrum. See Monster.]

1. Marvelous; strange. [Obs.]

2. Having the qualities of a monster; deviating greatly from the
natural form or character; abnormal; as, a monstrous birth. Locke.
He, therefore, that refuses to do good to them whom he is bound to
love ... is unnatural and monstrous in his affections. Jer. Taylor.

3. Extraordinary in a way to excite wonder, dislike, apprehension,
etc.; -- said of size, appearance, color, sound, etc.; as, a
monstrous height; a monstrous ox; a monstrous story.

4. Extraordinary on account of ugliness, viciousness, or wickedness;
hateful; horrible; dreadful.
So bad a death argues a monstrous life. Shak.

5. Abounding in monsters. [R.]
Where thou, perhaps, under the whelming tide Visitest the bottom of
the monstrous world. Milton.

MONSTROUS
Mon"strous, adv.

Defn: Exceedingly; very; very much. "A monstrous thick oil on the
top." Bacon.
And will be monstrous witty on the poor. Dryden.

MONSTROUSLY
Mon"strous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a monstrous manner; unnaturally; extraordinarily; as,
monstrously wicked. "Who with his wife is monstrously in love."
Dryden.

MONSTROUSNESS
Mon"strous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being monstrous, unusual,
extraordinary. Shak.

MONSTRUOSITY
Mon`stru*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: Monstrosity. [Obs.] Shak.

MONSTRUOUS
Mon"stru*ous, a.

Defn: Monstrous. [Obs.]

MONT
Mont, n. Etym: [F. See Mount, n.]

Defn: Mountain.

MONTAIGNE
Mon"taigne, n.

Defn: A mountain. [Obs.]

MONTANIC
Mon*tan"ic, a. Etym: [L. montanus, fr. mons, montis, mountain. See
Mount, n.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to mountains; consisting of mountains.

MONTANIST
Mon"ta*nist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Mintanus, a Phrygian enthusiast of the second
century, who claimed that the Holy Spirit, the Paraclete, dwelt in
him, and employed him as an instrument for purifying and guiding men
in the Christian life.
 -- Mon`ta*nis"tic, Mon`ta*nis"tic*al, a.

MONTANT
Mon"tant, n. Etym: [F.,prop., mounting, fr. monter to mount, fr. L.
mons, montis, mountain. See Mount.]

1. (Fencing)

Defn: An upward thrust or blow. Shak.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An upright piece in any framework; a mullion or muntin; a
stile. [R.] See Stile.

MONT DE PIETE
Mont" de pi`é`té". Etym: [F., fr. It. monte di pietà mount of piety.]

Defn: One of certain public pawnbroking establishments which
originated in Italy in the 15th century, the object of which was to
lend money at a low rate of interest to poor people in need; --
called also mount of piety. The institution has been adopted in other
countries, as in Spain and France. See Lombard-house.

MONTE
Mon"te, n. Etym: [Sp., lit., mountain, hence, the stock of cards
remaining after laying out a certain number, fr. L. mons, montis,
mountain.]

Defn: A favorite gambling game among Spaniards, played with dice or
cards.

MONTE-ACID
Monte`-ac"id, n. Etym: [F. monter to raise + acide acid.] (Chem.)

Defn: An acid elevator, as a tube through which acid is forced to
some height in a sulphuric acid manufactory.

MONTEITH
Mon*teith", n.

Defn: See Monteth.

MONTE-JUS
Monte"-jus", n. [F., fr. monter to bring up + jus juice.]

Defn: An apparatus for raising a liquid by pressure of air or steam
in a reservoir containing the liquid.

MONTEM
Mon"tem, n. Etym: [L. ad montem to the hillock. See Mount, n.]

Defn: A custom, formerly practiced by the scholars at Eton school,
England, of giing every third year, on Whittuesday, to a hillock near
the Bath road, and exacting money from all passers-by, to support at
the university the senior scholar of the school.

MONTERO
Mon*te"ro, n. Etym: [Sp. montera a hunting cap, fr. montero a
huntsman, monte a mountain, forest, L. mons, montis, mountain. See
Mount, n.]

Defn: An ancient kind of cap worn by horsemen or huntsmen. Bacon.

MONTESSORI METHOD
Mon`tes*so"ri Meth"od. (Pedagogy)

Defn: A system of training and instruction, primarily for use with
normal children aged from three to six years, devised by Dr. Maria
Montessori while teaching in the "Houses of Childhood" (schools in
the poorest tenement districts of Rome, Italy), and first fully
described by her in 1909. Leading features are freedom for physical
activity (no stationary desks and chairs), informal and individual
instruction, the very early development of writing, and an extended
sensory and motor training (with special emphasis on vision, touch,
perception of movement, and their interconnections), mediated by a
patented, standardized system of "didactic apparatus," which is
declared to be "auto-regulative." Most of the chief features of the
method are borrowed from current methods used in many institutions
for training feeble-minded children, and dating back especially to
the work of the French-American physician Edouard O. Seguin (1812-
80).

MONTETH; MONTEITH
Mon*teth", Mon*teith", n.

Defn: A vessel in which glasses are washed; -- so called from the
name of the inventor.
New things produce new words, and thus Monteth Has by one vessel
saved his name from death. King.

MONTGOLFIER
Mont`gol"fier, n.

Defn: A balloon which ascends by the buoyancy of air heated by a
fire; a fire balloon; -- so called from two brothers, Stephen and
Joseph Montgolfier, of France, who first constructed and sent up a
fire balloon.

MONTH
Month, n. Etym: [OE. month, moneth, AS. mon, mona; akin to mona moon,
and to D. maand month, G. monat, OHG. manod, Icel. manu, mana, Goth.
meno. *272. See Moon.]

Defn: One of the twelve portions into which the year is divided; the
twelfth part of a year, corresponding nearly to the length of a
synodic revolution of the moon, -- whence the name. In popular use, a
period of four weeks is often called a month.

Note: In the common law, a month is a lunar month, or twenty-eight
days, unless otherwise expressed. Blackstone. In the United States
the rule of the common law is generally cahanged, and a month is
declared to mean a calendar month. Cooley's Blackstone. A month mind.
(a) A strong or abnormal desire. [Obs.] Shak. (b) A celebration made
in remembrance of a deceased person a month after death. Strype.
 -- Calendar months, the months as adjusted in the common or
Gregorian calendar; April, June, September, and November, containing
30 days, and the rest 31, except February, which, in common years,
has 28, and in leap years 29.
 -- Lunar month, the period of one revolution of the moon,
particularly a synodical revolution; but several kinds are
distinguished, as the synodical month, or period from one new moon to
the next, in mean length 29 d. 12 h. 44 m. 2.87 s.; the nodical
month, or time of revolution from one node to the same again, in
length 27 d. 5 h. 5 m. 36 s.; the sidereal, or time of revolution
from a star to the same again, equal to 27 d. 7 h. 43 m. 11.5 s.; the
anomalistic, or time of revolution from perigee to perigee again, in
length 27 d. 13 h. 18 m. 37.4 s.; and the tropical, or time of
passing from any point of the ecliptic to the same again, equal to 27
d. 7 h. 43 m. 4.7 s.
 -- Solar month, the time in which the sun passes through one sign of
the zodiac, in mean length 30 d. 10 h. 29 m. 4.1 s.

MONTHLING
Month"ling, n.

Defn: That which is a month old, or which lives for a month. [R.]
Wordsworth.

MONTHLY
Month"ly, a.

1. Continued a month, or a performed in a month; as, the monthly
revolution of the moon.

2. Done, happening, payable, published, etc., once a month, or every
month; as, a monthly visit; monthly charges; a monthly installment; a
monthly magazine. Monthly nurse, a nurse who serves for a month or
some short time, esp. one which attends women after childbirth.

MONTHLY
Month"ly, n.; pl. Monthlies (.

Defn: A publication which appears regularly once a month.

MONTHLY
Month"ly, adv.

1. Once a month; in every month; as, the moon changes monthly. Shak.

2. As if under the influence of the moon; in the manner of a lunatic.
[Obs.] Middleton.

MONTICLE
Mon"ti*cle, n. Etym: [L. monticulus, dim. of mons, montis, mountain:
cf. F. monticule. See Mount, n.]

Defn: A little mount; a hillock; a small elevation or prominence.
[Written also monticule.]

MONTICULATE
Mon*tic"u*late, a.

Defn: Furnished with monticles or little elevations.

MONTICULE
Mon"ti*cule, n.

Defn: See Monticle.

MONTICULOUS
Mon*tic"u*lous, a.

Defn: Monticulate.

MONTIFORM
Mon"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. mons, montis, mountain + -form.]

Defn: Resembling a mountain in form.

MONTIGENOUS
Mon*tig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. montigena; mons, montis, mountain + the
root of gignere to beget.]

Defn: Produced on a mountain.

MONTOIR
Mon`toir", n. Etym: [F., fr. monter to mount. See Montant.]

Defn: A stone used in mounting a horse; a horse block.

MONTON
Mon"ton, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Mining)

Defn: A heap of ore; a mass undergoing the process of amalgamation.

MONTRE
Mon"tre, n. [F., show, show case, organ case.]

1. (Organ Building) A stop, usually the open diapason, having its
pipes "shown" as part of the organ case, or otherwise specially
mounted.

2.  A hole in the wall of a pottery kiln, by which the state of the
pieces within can be judged.

MONTROSS
Mon*tross", n.

Defn: See Matross. [Obs.]

MONTRUE
Mon"true, n. Etym: [F., fr. monter to mount. See Montoir.]

Defn: That on which anything is mounted; a setting; hence, a saddle
horse. [Obs.] Spenser.

MONUMENT
Mon"u*ment, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. monumentum, fr. monere to remind,
admonish. See Monition, and cf. Moniment.]

1. Something which stands, or remains, to keep in remembrance what is
past; a memorial.
Of ancient British art A pleasing monument. Philips.
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments. Shak.

2. A building, pillar, stone, or the like, erected to preserve the
remembrance of a person, event, action, etc.; as, the Washington
monument; the Bunker Hill monument. Also, a tomb, with memorial
inscriptions.
On your family's old monument Hang mournful epitaphs, and do all
rites That appertain unto a burial. Shak.

3. A stone or other permanent object, serving to indicate a limit or
to mark a boundary.

4. A saying, deed, or example, worthy of record.
Acts and Monuments of these latter and perilous days. Foxe.

Syn.
 -- Memorial; remembrance; tomb; cenotaph.

MONUMENTAL
Mon`u*men"tal, a. Etym: [L. monumentalis: cf. F. monumental.]

1. Of, pertaining to, or suitable for, a monument; as, a monumental
inscription.

2. Serving as a monument; memorial; preserving memory. "Of pine, or
monumental oak." Milton.
A work outlasting monumental brass. Pope.

MONUMENTALLY
Mon`u*men"tal*ly, adv.

1. By way of memorial.

2. By means of monuments.

MONUREID
Mon*u"re*id, n. Etym: [Mon- + ureid.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regarded
as derived from one molecule of urea; as, alloxan is a monureid.
[Written also monureide.]

MOO
Moo, a., adv., & n.

Defn: See Mo. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOO
Moo, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mooed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mooing.] Etym: [Of
imitative origin.]

Defn: To make the noise of a cow; to low; -- child's word.

MOO
Moo, n.

Defn: The lowing of a cow.

MOOD
Mood, n. Etym: [The same word as mode, perh. influenced by mood
temper. See Mode.]

1. Manner; style; mode; logical form; musical style; manner of action
or being. See Mode which is the preferable form).

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Manner of conceiving and expressing action or being, as
positive, possible, hypothetical, etc., without regard to other
accidents, such as time, person, number, etc.; as, the indicative
mood; the infinitive mood; the subjunctive mood. Same as Mode.

MOOD
Mood, n. Etym: [OE. mood, mod, AS. modmind, feeling, heart, courage;
akin to OS. & OFries. mod, D. moed, OHG. muot, G. muth, mut, courage,
Dan. & Sw. mod, Icel. mo wrath, Goth. mods.]

Defn: Temper of mind; temporary state of the mind in regard to
passion or feeling; humor; as, a melancholy mood; a suppliant mood.
Till at the last aslaked was mood. Chaucer.
Fortune is merry, And in this mood will give us anything. Shak.
The desperate recklessness of her mood. Hawthorne.

MOODER
Moo"der, n.

Defn: Mother. [Obs.] Chaucer.

MOODILY
Mood"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a moody manner.

MOODINESS
Mood"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being moody; specifically, liability to
strange or violent moods.

MOODIR
Moo"dir, n. Etym: [Ar. mudir.]

Defn: The governor of a province in Egypt, etc. [Written also mudir.]

MOODISH
Mood"ish, a.

Defn: Moody. [Obs.]

MOODISHLY
Mood"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: Moodily. [Obs.]

MOODY
Mood"y, a. [Compar. Moodier; superl. Moodiest.] Etym: [AS. modig
courageous.]

1. Subject to varying moods, especially to states of mind which are
unamiable or depressed.

2. Hence: Out of humor; peevish; angry; fretful; also, abstracted and
pensive; sad; gloomy; melancholy. "Every peevish, moody malcontent."
Rowe.
Arouse thee from thy moody dream! Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- Gloomy; pensive; sad; fretful; capricious.

MOOLAH; MOOLLAH
Moo"lah, Mool"lah, n.

Defn: See Mollah.

MOOLLEY
Mool"ley, n.

Defn: Same as Mulley.

MOON
Moon, n. Etym: [OE. mone, AS. mona; akin to D. maan, OS. & OHG. mano,
G. mond, Icel. mani, Dan. maane, Sw. måne, Goth. mena, Lith. men, L.
mensis month, Gr. mas moon, month; prob. from a root meaning to
measure (cf. Skr. ma to measure), from its serving to measure the
time. *271. Cf. Mete to measure, Menses, Monday, Month.]

1. The celestial orb which revolves round the earth; the satellite of
the earth; a secondary planet, whose light, borrowed from the sun, is
reflected to the earth, and serves to dispel the darkness of night.
The diameter of the moon is 2,160 miles, its mean distance from the
earth is 240,000 miles, and its mass is one eightieth that of the
earth. See Lunar month, under Month.
The crescent moon, the diadem of night. Cowper.

2. A secondary planet, or satellite, revolving about any member of
the solar system; as, the moons of Jupiter or Saturn.

3. The time occupied by the moon in making one revolution in her
orbit; a month. Shak.

4. (Fort.)

Defn: A crescentlike outwork. See Half-moon. Moon blindness. (a)
(Far.) A kind of ophthalmia liable to recur at intervals of three or
four weeks. (b) (Med.) Hemeralopia.
 -- Moon dial, a dial used to indicate time by moonlight.
 -- Moon face, a round face like a full moon.
 -- Moon madness, lunacy. [Poetic] -- Moon month, a lunar month.
 -- Moon trefoil (Bot.), a shrubby species of medic (Medicago
arborea). See Medic.
 -- Moon year, a lunar year, consisting of lunar months, being
sometimes twelve and sometimes thirteen.

MOON
Moon, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mooned; p. pr. & vb. n. Mooning.]

Defn: To expose to the rays of the moon.
If they have it to be exceeding white indeed, they seethe it yet once
more, after it hath been thus sunned and mooned. Holland.

MOON
Moon, v. i.

Defn: To act if moonstruck; to wander or gaze about in an abstracted
manner.
Elsley was mooning down the river by himself. C. Kingsley.

MOONBEAM
Moon"beam`, n.

Defn: A ray of light from the moon.

MOONBLIND
Moon"blind`, a.

Defn: Dim-sighted; purblind.

MOONBLINK
Moon"blink`, n.

Defn: A temporary blindness, or impairment of sight, said to be
caused by sleeping in the moonlight; -- sometimes called nyctalopia.

MOONCALF
Moon"calf`, n.

1. A monster; a false conception; a mass of fleshy matter, generated
in the uterus.

2. A dolt; a stupid fellow. Dryden.

MOON-CULMINATING
Moon"-cul"mi*na`ting, a.

Defn: Culminating, or coming to the meredian, at or about the same
time with the moon; -- said of a star or stars, esp. of certain stars
selected beforehand, and named in an ephemeris (as the Nautical
Almanac), as suitable to be observed in connection with the moon at
culmination, for determining terrestrial longitude.

MOONED
Mooned, a.

Defn: Of or resembling the moon; symbolized by the moon. "Sharpening
in mooned horns." "Mooned Ashtaroth." Milton.

MOONER
Moon"er, n.

Defn: One who abstractedly wanders or gazes about, as if moonstruck.
[R.] Dickens.

MOONERY
Moon"er*y, n.

Defn: Conduct of one who moons. [R.]

MOONET
Moon"et, n.

Defn: A little moon. [R.] Bp. Hall.

MOON-EYE
Moon"-eye`, n.

1. A eye affected by the moon; also, a disease in the eye of a horse.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any species of American fresh-water fishes of the genus Hyodon,
esp. H. tergisus of the Great Lakes and adjacent waters.
(b) The cisco.

MOON-EYED
Moon"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having eyes affected by the moon; moonblind; dim-eyed;
purblind.

MOON-FACED
Moon"-faced`, a.

Defn: Having a round, full face.

MOONFISH
Moon"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) An American marine fish (Vomer setipennis); -- called also
bluntnosed shiner, horsefish, and sunfish.
(b) A broad, thin, silvery marine fish (Selene vomer); -- called also
lookdown, and silver moonfish.
(c) The mola. See Sunfish, 1.

MOONFLOWER
Moon"flow`er, n. (Bot.)
(a) The oxeye daisy; -- called also moon daisy.
(b) A kind of morning glory (Ipomoea Bona-nox) with large white
flowers opening at night.

MOONG
Moong, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Mung.

MOONGLADE
Moon"glade`, n.

Defn: The bright reflection of the moon's light on an expanse of
water. [Poetic]

MOONIE
Moo"nie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European goldcrest.

MOONISH
Moon"ish, a.

Defn: Like the moon; variable.
Being but a moonish youth. Shak.