

MUMMER
Mumm"er, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. mommeur. See Mumm, and cf. Momier.]

Defn: One who mumms, or makes diversion in disguise; a masker; a
buffon.
Jugglers and dancers, antics, mummers. Milton.

MUMMERY
Mum"mer*y, n.; pl. Mummeries. Etym: [F. momerie, of Dutch or German
origin. See Mumm.]

1. Masking; frolic in disguise; buffoonery.
The mummery of foreign strollers. Fenton.

2. Farcical show; hypocritical disguise and parade or ceremonies.
Bacon.

MUMMICHOG
Mum"mi*chog, n. Etym: [Amer. Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small American cyprinodont fishes
of the genus Fundulus, and of allied genera; the killifishes; --
called also minnow. [Written also mummychog, mummachog.]

MUMMIFICATION
Mum`mi*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [See Mummify.]

Defn: The act of making a mummy.

MUMMIFIED
Mum"mi*fied, a.

Defn: Converted into a mummy or a mummylike substance; having the
appearance of a mummy; withered.

MUMMIFORM
Mum"mi*form, a. Etym: [Mummy + -form.]

Defn: Having some resemblance to a mummy; -- in zoölogy, said of the
pupæ of certain insects.

MUMMIFY
Mum"mi*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mummified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mummifying.] Etym: [Mummy + -fy: cf. F. momifier.]

Defn: To embalm and dry as a mummy; to make into, or like, a mummy.
Hall (1646).

MUMMY
Mum"my, n.; pl. Mummies. Etym: [F. momie; cf. Sp. & Pg. momia, It.
mummia; all fr. Per. m, fr. m wax.]

1. A dead body embalmed and dried after the manner of the ancient
Egyptians; also, a body preserved, by any means, in a dry state, from
the process of putrefaction. Bacon.

2. Dried flesh of a mummy. [Obs.] Sir. J. Hill.

3. A gummy liquor that exudes from embalmed flesh when heated; --
formerly supposed to have magical and medicinal properties. [Obs.]
Shak. Sir T. Herbert.

4. A brown color obtained from bitumen. See Mummy brown (below).

5. (Gardening)

Defn: A sort of wax used in grafting, etc.

6. One whose affections and energies are withered. Mummy brown, a
brown color, nearly intermediate in tint between burnt umber and raw
umber. A pigment of this color is prepared from bitumen, etc.,
obtained from Egyptian tombs.
 -- Mummy wheat (Bot.), wheat found in the ancient mummy cases of
Egypt. No botanist now believes that genuine mummy wheat has been
made to germinate in modern times.
 -- To beat to a mummy, to beat to a senseless mass; to beat soundly.

MUMMY
Mum"my, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mummied; p. pr. & vb. n. Mummying.]

Defn: To embalm; to mummify.

MUMMYCHOG
Mum"my*chog, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mummichog.

MUMP
Mump, v. i. Etym: [Akin to mumble; cf. D. mompen to cheat; perh.
orig., to whine like a beggar, D. mompelen to mumble. See Mumble,
Mum, and cf. Mumps.]

1. To move the lips with the mouth closed; to mumble, as in
sulkiness.
He mumps, and lovers, and hangs the lip. Taylor, 1630.

2. To talk imperfectly, brokenly, or feebly; to chatter
unintelligibly.

3. To cheat; to deceive; to play the beggar.
And then when mumping with a sore leg, ... canting and whining.
Burke.

4. To be sullen or sulky. [Prov. Eng.]

MUMP
Mump, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mumped; p. pr. & vb. n. Mumping.]

1. To utter imperfectly, brokenly, or feebly.
Old men who mump their passion. Goldsmith.

2. To work over with the mouth; to mumble; as, to mump food.

3. To deprive of (something) by cheating; to impose upon.

MUMPER
Mump"er, n.

Defn: A beggar; a begging impostor.
Deceived by the tales of a Lincoln's Inn mumper. Macaulay.

MUMPISH
Mump"ish, a.

Defn: Sullen, sulky.
 -- Mump"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Mump"ish*ness, n.

MUMPS
Mumps, n. Etym: [Prov. E. mump to be sulky. Cf. Mump, Mumble, and
Mum.]

1. pl.

Defn: Sullenness; silent displeasure; the sulks. Skinner.

2. Etym: [Prob. so called from the patient's appearance.] (Med.)

Defn: A specific infectious febrile disorder characterized by a
nonsuppurative inflammation of the parotid glands; epidemic or
infectious parotitis.

MUN
Mun, n. Etym: [See Mouth.]

Defn: The mouth. [Obs.]
One a penny, two a penny, hot cross buns, Butter them and sugar them
and put them in your muns. Old Rhyme. Halliwell.

MUNCH
Munch, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Munched; p. pr. & vb. n. Munching.]
Etym: [Prob. akin to mumble: cf. also F. manger to eat (cf. Mange),
and mâcher to cher (cf. Masticate). See Mumble.]

Defn: To chew with a grinding, crunching sound, as a beast chews
provender; to chew deliberately or in large mouthfuls. [Formerly
written also maunch and mounch.]
I could munch your good dry oats. Shak.

MUNCHAUSENISM
Mun*chau"sen*ism, n. Etym: [So called in allusion to Baron
Munchausen's extravagant tales of travel.]

Defn: An extravagant fiction embodying an account of some marvelous
exploit or adventure.

MUNCHER
Munch"er, n.

Defn: One who munches.

MUND
Mund, n.

Defn: See Mun.

MUNDANE
Mun"dane, a. Etym: [L. mundanus, fr. mundus the world, an implement,
toilet adornments, or dress; cf. mundus, a., clean, neat, Skr. mansds
to adorn, dress, mansdsa adornment. Cf. Monde, Mound in heraldry.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the world; worldly; earthly; terrestrial;
as, the mundane sphere.
 -- Mun"dane*ly, adv.
The defilement of mundane passions. I. Taylor.

MUNDANITY
Mun*dan"i*ty, n.

Defn: Worldliness. [Obs.]

MUNDATION
Mun*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. mundatio, fr. mundare to make clean.]

Defn: The act of cleansing. [Obs.]

MUNDATORY
Mun"da*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. mundatorius.]

Defn: Cleansing; having power to cleanse. [Obs.]

MUNDIC
Mun"dic, n.

Defn: Iron pyrites, or arsenical pyrites; -- so called by the Cornish
miners.

MUNDIFICANT
Mun*dif"i*cant, a. Etym: [L. mundificans, p.pr. of mundificare to
make clean, fr. mundus clean + -ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy.]

Defn: Serving to cleanse and heal.
 -- n.

Defn: A mundificant ointment or plaster.

MUNDIFICATION
Mun`di*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act or operation of cleansing.

MUNDIFICATIVE
Mun*dif"i*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Cleansing.
 -- n.

Defn: A detergent medicine or preparation.

MUNDIFY
Mun"di*fy, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. mondifier, L. mundificare. See
Mundificant.]

Defn: To cleanse. [Obs.]

MUNDIL
Mun"dil, n.

Defn: A turban ornamented with an imitation of gold or silver
embroidery.

MUNDIVAGANT
Mun*div"a*gant, a. Etym: [L. mundus the world + vagans wandering,
p.pr. of vagari. See Vagary.]

Defn: Wandering over the world. [R.]

MUNDUNGUS
Mun*dun"gus, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. mondongo paunch, tripe, black
pudding.]

Defn: A stinking tobacco.

MUNERARY
Mu"ner*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. munerarius, from munus a gift.]

Defn: Having the nature of a gift. [Obs.]

MUNERATE
Mu"ner*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. muneratus, p.p. of munerare to give,
bestow, fr. munus a gift.]

Defn: To remunerate.

MUNERATION
Mu`ner*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. muneratio.]

Defn: Remuneration. [Obs.]

MUNG
Mung, n. Etym: [Hind. m.] (Bot.)

Defn: Green gram, a kind of pulse (Phaseolus Mungo), grown for food
in British India. Balfour (Cyc. of India).

MUNGA
Mun"ga, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Bonnet monkey, under Bonnet.

MUNGCORN
Mung"corn`, n.

Defn: Same as Mangcorn.

MUNGO
Mun"go, n.

Defn: A fibrous material obtained by deviling rags or the remnants of
woolen goods.

Note: Mungo properly signifies the disintegrated rags of woolen
cloth, as distinguished from those of worsted, which form shoddy. The
distinction is very commonly disregarded. Beck (Draper's Dict. ).

MUNGOOSE; MUNGOOS
Mun"goose, Mun"goos, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mongoose.

MUNGREL
Mun"grel, n. & a.

Defn: See Mongrel.

MUNICIPAL
Mu*nic"i*pal, a. Etym: [L. municipalis, fr. municipium a town,
particularly in Italy, which possessed the right of Roman
citizenship, but was governed by its own laws, a free town, fr.
municeps an inhabitant of a free town, a free citizen; munia official
duties, functions + capere to take: cf. F. municipal. Cf. Immunity,
and Capacoius.]

1. Of or pertaining to a city or a corporation having the right of
administering local government; as, municipal rights; municipal
officers.

2. Of or pertaining to a state, kingdom, or nation.
Municipal law is properly defined to be a rule of civil conduct
prescribed by the supreme power in a state. Blackstone.

MUNICIPALISM
Mu*nic"i*pal*ism, n.

Defn: Municipal condition.

MUNICIPALITY
Mu*nic`i*pal"i*ty, n.; pl. Municipalities. Etym: [Cf. F.
municipalité.]

Defn: A municipal district; a borough, city, or incorporated town or
village.

MUNICIPALIZE
Mu*nic"i*pal*ize, v. t. [Municipal + -ize.]

Defn: To bring under municipal oversight or control; as, a
municipalized industry.

London people are now determined to centralize and to municipalize
such services.
The Century.

MUNICIPALLY
Mu*nic"i*pal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a municipal relation or condition.

MUNIFIC
Mu*nif"ic, a. Etym: [See Munificent.]

Defn: Munificent; liberal. [Obs. or R.]

MUNIFICATE
Mu*nif"i*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. munificatus, p.p. of munificare to
present with a thing, fr. munificus. See Munificent.]

Defn: To enrich. [Obs.]

MUNIFICENCE
Mu*nif"i*cence, n. Etym: [Cf. L. munire to fortify.]

Defn: Means of defense; fortification. [Obs.] Spenser.

MUNIFICENCE
Mu*nif"i*cence, n. Etym: [L. munificentia: cf. F. munificence.]

Defn: The quality or state of being munificent; a giving or bestowing
with extraordinary liberality; generous bounty; lavish generosity.
The virtues of liberality and munificence. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Benevolence; beneficence; liberality; generosity; bounty;
bounteousness. See Benevolence.

MUNIFICENT
Mu*nif"i*cent, a. Etym: [L. munificus; munus service, gift + -ficare
(in comp.) to make. Cf. Immunity, -fy.]

Defn: Very liberal in giving or bestowing; lavish; as, a munificent
benefactor.
 -- Mu*nif"i*cent*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Bounteous; bountiful; liberal; generous.

MUNIFY
Mu"ni*fy, v. t. & i. Etym: [See Munificate.]

Defn: To prepare for defense; to fortify. [Obs.]

MUNIMENT
Mu"ni*ment, n. Etym: [L. munimentum, fr. munire to fortify. See
Munition.]

1. The act of supporting or defending. [Obs.]

2. That which supports or defends; stronghold; place or means of
defense; munition; assistance. "Other muniments and petty helps."
Shak.

3. (Law)

Defn: A record; the evidences or writings whereby a man is enabled to
defend the title to his estate; title deeds and papers. Blount.
Muniment house or room, that room in a cathedral, castle, or other
public building, which is used for keeping the records, charters,
seals, deeds, and the like. Gwilt.

MUNITE
Mu*nite", v. t. Etym: [L. munitus, p.p. of munire to wall, fortify.]

Defn: To fortify; to strengthen. [Obs.]

MUNITION
Mu*ni"tion, n. Etym: [F., munition of war, L. munitio a fortifying,
fortification, fr. munire to fortify, defend with a wall; cf. moenia
walls, murus (for moirus) a wall, and Skr. mi to fix, make firm. Cf.
Ammunition.]

1. Fortification; stronghold. [Obs.]
His place of defense shall be the munitions of rocks. Is. xxxiii. 16.

2. Whatever materials are used in war for drfense or for annoying an
enemy; ammunition; also, stores and provisions; military stores of
all kinds.
The bodies of men, munition, and money, may justly be called the
sinews of war. Sir W. Raleigh.

MUNITY
Mu"ni*ty, n. Etym: [See Immunity.]

Defn: Freedom; security; immunity. [Obs.] W. Montagu.

MUNJEET
Mun*jeet", n. Etym: [Hind. majitsh a drug used for dyeing red.]

Defn: See Indian madder, under Madder.

MUNJISTIN
Mun"jis*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An orangered coloring substance resembling alizarin, found in
the root of an East Indian species of madder (Rubia munjista).

MUNNION
Mun"nion, n.

Defn: See Mullion.

MUNTIN; MUNTING
Mun"tin, Mun"ting, n. Etym: [CF. Montant.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Mullion; -- especially used in joiner's work.

MUNTJAC
Munt"jac, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small Asiatic deer of the genus
Cervulus, esp. C. muntjac, which occurs both in India and on the East
Indian Islands. [Written also muntjak.]

MUNTZ METAL
Muntz" met`al.

Defn: See under Metal.

MURAENA
Mu*ræ"na, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of large eels of the family Mirænidæ. They differ from
the common eel in lacking pectoral fins and in having the dorsal and
anal fins continuous. The murry (Muræna Helenæ) of Southern Europe
was the muræna of the Romans. It is highly valued as a food fish.

MURAENOID; MURENOID
Mu*ræ"noid, Mu*re"noid, a. Etym: [NL. Muræna, the generic name + -
oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the genus Muræna, or family Murænidæ.

MURAGE
Mu"rage, n. Etym: [F., fr. murer to wall, fr. mur wall, L. murus. See
Mure a wall.]

Defn: A tax or toll paid for building or repairing the walls of a
fortified town.

MURAL
Mu"ral, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. muralis, fr. murus wall. See Mure a
wall.]

1. Of or pertaining to a wall; being on, or in, a wall; growing on,
or against, a wall; as, a mural quadrant. "Mural breach." Milton.
"Mural fruit." Evelyn.

2. Resembling a wall; perpendicular or steep; as, a mural precipice.
Mural circle (Astron.), a graduated circle, in the plane of the
meridian, attached permanently to a perpendicular wall; -- used for
measuring arcs of the meridian. See Circle, n., 3.
 -- Mural crown (Rom. Antiq.), a golden crown, or circle of gold
indented so as to resemble a battlement, bestowed on him who first
mounted the wall of a besieged place, and there lodged a standard.

MURDER
Mur"der, n. Etym: [OE. morder, morther, AS. moredhor, fr. moredh
murder; akin to D. moord, OS. moredh, G., Dan., & Sw. mord, Icel.
moredh, Goth. maúrþr, OSlav. mreti to die, Lith. mirti, W. marw dead,
L. mors, mortis, death, mori, moriri, to die, Gr. broto`s (for
mroto`s) mortal, 'a`mbrotos immortal, Skr. mrs to die, mrsta death.
*105. Cf. Amaranth, Ambrosia, Mortal.]

Defn: The offense of killing a human being with malice prepense or
aforethought, express or implied; intentional and unlawful homicide.
"Mordre will out." Chaucer.
The killing of their children had, in the account of God, the guilt
of murder, as the offering them to idols had the guilt of idolatry.
Locke.
Slaughter grows murder when it goes too far. Dryden.

Note: Murder in the second degree, in most jurisdictions, is a
malicious homicide committed without a specific intention to take
life. Wharton.

MURDER
Mur"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Murdered; p. pr. & vb. n. Murdering.]
Etym: [OE. mortheren, murtheren, AS. myr; akin to OHG. murdiren,
Goth. maúr. See Murder, n.]

1. To kill with premediated malice; to kill (a human being)
willfully, deliberately, and unlawfully. See Murder, n.

2. To destroy; to put an end to.
[Canst thou] murder thy breath in middle of a word Shak.

3. To mutilate, spoil, or deform, as if with malice or cruelty; to
mangle; as, to murder the king's English.

Syn.
 -- To kill; assassinate; slay. See Kill.

MURDERER
Mur"der*er, n.

1. One guilty of murder; a person who, in possession of his reason,
unlawfully kills a human being with premeditated malice.

2. A small cannon, formerly used for clearing a ship's decks of
boarders; -- called also murdering piece. [Obs.]

MURDERESS
Mur"der*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who commits murder.

MURDERMENT
Mur"der*ment, n.

Defn: Murder. [Obs.] Farfax.

MURDEROUS
Mur"der*ous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to murder; characterized by, or causing,
murder or bloodshed; having the purpose or quality of murder; bloody;
sanguinary; as, the murderous king; murderous rapine; murderous
intent; a murderous assault. "Murderous coward." Shak.
 -- Mur"der*ous*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Bloody; sanguinary; bloodguilty; bloodthirsty; fell; savage;
cruel.

MURDRESS
Mur"dress, n.

Defn: A battlement in ancient fortifications with interstices for
firing through.

MURE
Mure, n. Etym: [L. murus; or F. mur, fr. L. murus. Cf. Munition.]

Defn: A wall. [Obs.] Shak.

MURE
Mure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mured.] Etym: [F. murer, L. murare. See
Mure, n.]

Defn: To inclose in walls; to wall; to immure; to shut up. Spenser.
The five kings are mured in a cave. John. x. (Heading).

MURENGER
Mu"ren*ger, n.

Defn: One who had charge of the wall of a town, or its repairs.

MUREX
Mu"rex, n.; pl. Murices. Etym: [L., the purple fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine gastropods, having rough, and frequently
spinose, shells, which are often highly colored inside; the rock
shells. They abound in tropical seas.

MUREXAN
Mu*rex"an, n. Etym: [From Murexide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A complex nitrogenous substance obtained from murexide,
alloxantin, and other ureids, as a white, or yellowish, crystalline
which turns red on exposure to the air; -- called also uramil,
dialuramide, and formerly purpuric acid.

MUREXIDE
Mu*rex"ide, n. Etym: [L. murex the purple fish, purple.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline nitrogenous substance having a splendid
dichroism, being green by reflected light and garnet-red by
transmitted light. It was formerly used in dyeing calico, and was
obtained in a large quantities from guano. Formerly called also
ammonium purpurate.

MUREXOIN
Mu*rex"o*ïn, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A complex nitrogenous compound obtained as a scarlet
crystalline substance, and regarded as related to murexide.

MURIATE
Mu"ri*ate, n. Etym: [See Muriatic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of muriatic hydrochloric acid; a chloride; as, muriate
of ammonia.

Note: This term, as also the word muriatic, was formerly applied to
the chlorides before their true composition was understood, and while
they were erroneously supposed to be compounds of an acid with an
oxide. Muriate and muriatic are still occasionally used as commercial
terms, but are obsolete in scientific language.

MURIATED
Mu"ri*a`ted, a.

1. Put in brine. Evelyn.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined or impregnated with muriatic or hydrochloric acid.

3. (Photog.)

Defn: Prepared with chloride of silver through the agency of common
salt.

MURIATIC
Mu`ri*at"ic, a. Etym: [L. muriaticus pickled, from muria brine: cf.
F. muriatique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sea salt, or from
chlorine, one of the constituents of sea salt; hydrochloric. Muriatic
acid, hydrochloric acid, HCl; -- formerly called also marine acid,
and spirit of salt. See hydrochloric, and the Note under Muriate.

MURIATIFEROUS
Mu`ri*a*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Muriatic + -ferous.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: Producing muriatic substances or salt. [Obs.]

MURICATE; MURICATED
Mu"ri*cate, Mu"ri*ca`ted, a. Etym: [L. muricatus, fr. murex a pointed
rock or stone.]

Defn: Formed with sharp points; full of sharp points or of pickles;
covered, or roughened, as a surface, with sharp points or
excrescences.

MURICOID
Mu"ri*coid, a. Etym: [Murex + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, the genus Murex, or family Muricidæ.

MURICULATE
Mu*ric"u*late, a.

Defn: Minutely muricate.

MURIDE
Mu"ride, n. Etym: [L. muria brine.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: Bromine; -- formerly so called from its being obtained from sea
water.

MURIFORM
Mu"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. murus a wall + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling courses of bricks or stones in squareness and
regular arrangement; as, a muriform variety of cellular tissue.

MURINE
Mu"rine, a. Etym: [L. murinus, from mus, muris, mouse: cf. F. murin.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to a family of rodents (Muridæ), of which the mouse
is the type.

MURINE
Mu"rine, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tribe of rodents, of which the mouse is the type.

MURINGER
Mu"rin*ger, n.

Defn: See Murenger. Jacob.

MURK
Murk, a. Etym: [See Murky.]

Defn: Dark; murky.
He can not see through the mantle murk. J. R. Drake.

MURK
Murk, n.

Defn: Darkness; mirk. [Archaic] Shak.

MURK
Murk, n.

Defn: The refuse of fruit, after the juice has been expressed; marc.

MURKILY
Murk"i*ly, adv.

Defn: Darkly; gloomily.

MURKINESS
Murk"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being murky.

MURKY
Murk"y, a. [Compar. Murkier; superl. Murkiest.] Etym: [OE. mirke,
merke, AS. myrce, mirce; akin to Icel. myrkr, Dan. & Sw. mörk.]

Defn: Dark; obscure; gloomy. "The murkiest den." Shak.
A murky deep lowering o'er our heads. Addison.

MURLINS
Mur"lins, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A seaweed. See Baddrelocks.

MURMUR
Mur"mur, n. Etym: [F. murmure: cf. L. murmur. CF. Murmur, v. i.]

1. A low, confused, and indistinct sound, like that of running water.

2. A complaint half suppressed, or uttered in a low, muttering voice.
Chaucer.
Some discontents there are, some idle murmurs. Dryden.

MURMUR
Mur"mur, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Murmured; p. pr. & vb. n. Murmuring.]
Etym: [F. murmurer, L. murmurare, murmurari, fr. murmur murmur; cf.
Gr.marmara a rustling sound; prob. of imitative origin.]

1. To make a low continued noise, like the hum of bees, a stream of
water, distant waves, or the wind in a forest.
They murmured as doth a swarm of bees. Chaucer.

2. To utter complaints in a low, half-articulated voice; to feel or
express dissatisfaction or discontent; to grumble; -- often with at
or against. "His disciples murmured at it." John vi. 61.
And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against
Aaron. Num. xiv. 2.
Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured. 1 Cor. x. 10.

MURMUR
Mur"mur, v. t.

Defn: To utter or give forth in low or indistinct words or sounds;
as, to murmur tales. Shak.
The people murmured such things concerning him. John vii. 32.

MURMURATION
Mur`mur*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. murmuratio.]

Defn: The act of murmuring; a murmur. [Obs.] Skelton.

MURMURER
Mur"mur*er, n.

Defn: One who murmurs.

MURMURING
Mur"mur*ing, a. & n.

Defn: Uttering murmurs; making low sounds; complaining.
 -- Mur"mur*ing*ly, adv.

MURMUROUS
Mur"mur*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. L. murmuriosus, OF. murmuros.]

Defn: Attended with murmurs; exciting murmurs or complaint;
murmuring. [Archaic or Poetic]
The lime, a summer home of murmurous wings. Tennyson.

MURNIVAL
Mur"ni*val, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. F. mornifle a game at cards.]

Defn: In the game of gleek, four cards of the same value, as four
aces or four kings; hence, four of anything. [Obs.] [Written also
mournival.]

MURPHY
Mur"phy, n.

Defn: A potato. [Humorous] Thackeray.

MURR
Murr, n. Etym: [Prob. abbrev. from murrain.]

Defn: A catarrh. [Obs.] Gascoigne.

MURRAIN
Mur"rain, n. Etym: [OE. moreine, OF. morine, fr. OF. morir, murir,
8die, L. mori, moriri.] (Far.)

Defn: An infectious and fatal disease among cattle. Bacon. A murrain
on you, may you be afflicted with a pestilent disease. Shak.

MURRAIN
Mur"rain, a.

Defn: Having, or afflicted with, murrain.

MURRAYIN
Mur"ray*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the flowers of a plant (Murraya exotica)
of South Asia, and extracted as a white amorphous slightly bitter
substance.

MURRE
Murre, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of sea birds of the genus Uria, or
Catarractes; a guillemot.

Note: The murres are allied to the auks, and are abundant on the
northern coasts of Europe and America. They often breed in large
communities on the projecting ledges of precipituous cliffs, laying
one or two large eggs on the bare rocks.

MURRELET
Murre"let, n. Etym: [Murre + -let.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of sea birds of the genera
Synthliboramphus and Brachyramphus, inhabiting the North Pacific.
They are closely related to the murres.

MURREY
Mur"rey, n. Etym: [OF. morée a dark red color, mor blackish brown,
fr. L. morum mulberry, blackberry, or fr. Maurus a Moor. Cf.
Mulberry, Moor, Morelle.]

Defn: A dark red color.
 -- a.

Defn: Of a dark red color. Bacon.

MURRHINE
Mur"rhine, a. Etym: [L. murrhinus, fr. murrha: cf. F. murrhin.]

Defn: Made of the stone or material called by the Romans murrha; --
applied to certain costly vases of great beauty and delicacy used by
the luxurious in Rome as wine cups; as, murrhine vases, cups,
vessels. Murrhine glass, glassware made in imitation of murrhine
vases and cups.

MURRION
Mur"ri*on, a. Etym: [See Murrain.]

Defn: Infected with or killed by murrain. [Obs.] Shak.

MURRION
Mur"ri*on, n.

Defn: A morion. See Morion.

MURRY
Mur"ry, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Muræna.

MURTH
Murth, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Plenty; abundance. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

MURTHER
Mur"ther, n. & v.

Defn: Murder, n. & v. [Obs. or Prov.] "The treason of the
murthering." Chaucer.

MURTHERER
Mur"ther*er, n.

Defn: A murderer. [Obs. or Prov.]

MURZA
Mur"za, n.

Defn: One of the hereditary nobility among the Tatars, esp. one of
the second class.

Note: This word must not be confounded with the Persian Mirza, though
perhaps of the same origin.

MUS
Mus, n.; pl. Mures. Etym: [L., a mouse.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small rodents, including the common mouse and rat.

MUSA
Mu"sa, n.; pl. Musæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Ar. mauz, mauza, banana.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of perennial, herbaceous, endogenous plants of great
size, including the banana (Musa sapientum), the plantain (M.
paradisiaca of Linnæus, but probably not a distinct species), the
Abyssinian (M. Ensete), the Philippine Island (M. textilis, which
yields Manila hemp), and about eighteen other species. See Illust. of
Banana and Plantain.

MUSACEOUS
Mu*sa"ceous, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the genus Musa.

MUSAL
Mus"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Muses, or to Poetry. [R.]

MUSANG
Mu*sang", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small animal of Java (Paradoxirus fasciatus), allied to the
civets. It swallows, but does not digest, large quantities of ripe
coffee berries, thus serving to disseminate the coffee plant; hence
it is called also coffee rat.

MUSAR
Mu"sar, n.

Defn: An itinerant player on the musette, an instrument formerly
common in Europe.

MUSARD
Mu"sard, n. Etym: [F., fr. muser to loiter, trifle. See Muse, v. i.]

Defn: A dreamer; an absent-minded person. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

MUSCA
Mus"ca, n.; pl. Muscæ. Etym: [L., a fly.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of dipterous insects, including the common house fly,
and numerous allied species.

Note: Formerly, a large part of the Diptera were included under the
genus Musca.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A small constellation situated between the Southern Cross and
the Pole. Muscæ volitantes (. Etym: [L., flying flies.] (Med.) Specks
or filaments apparently seen moving or glinding about in the field of
vision. Their appearance is often a symptom of disease of the eye, or
of disorder of the nervous system.

MUSCADEL
Mus"ca*del`, n. Etym: [It. moscadello, moscatello, LL. muscatellum or
muscadellum (sc. vinum), fr. muscatellus nutmeglike, dim. of muscatus
smelling like musk, muscatum and muscata (sc. nux) nutmeg: cf. F.
muscadelle, fr. Italian. See Musk and cf. Moschatel, Muscardin,
Muscat, Nutmeg.]

Defn: See Muscatel, n.
Quaffed off the muscadel. Shak.

MUSCADINE
Mus"ca*dine, n. Etym: [See Muscadel.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several very different kinds of grapes, but in
America used chiefly for the scuppernong, or southern fox grape,
which is said to be the parent stock of the Catawba. See Grapevine.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A fragrant and delicious pear.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Muscardin. Northern muscadine (Bot.), a derivative of the
northern fox grape, and scarcely an improvement upon it.
 -- Royal muscadine (Bot.), a European grape of great value. Its
berries are large, round, and of a pale amber color. Called also
golden chasselas.

MUSCALES
Mus*ca"les, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. muscus moss.] (Bot.)

Defn: An old name for mosses in the widest sense, including the true
mosses and also hepaticæ and sphagna.

MUSCALLONGE
Mus"cal*longe, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Muskellunge.

MUSCARDIN
Mus"car*din, n. Etym: [F., fr. muscadin a musk-scented lozenge, fr.
muscade nutmeg, fr. L. muscus musk. See Muscadel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common European dormouse; -- so named from its odor.
[Written also muscadine.]

MUSCARDINE
Mus`car*dine", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A disease which is very destructive to silkworms, and which
sometimes extends to other insects. It is attended by the development
of a fungus (provisionally called Botrytis bassiana). Also, the
fungus itself.

MUSCARIFORM
Mus*car"i*form, a. Etym: [L. muscarium fly brush + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a brush.

MUSCARIN
Mus*ca"rin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A solid crystalline substance, C5H13NO2, found in the toadstool
(Agaricus muscarius), and in putrid fish. It is a typical ptomaine,
and a violent poison.

MUSCAT
Mus"cat, n. Etym: [F. See Muscadel.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several varieties of Old World grapes,
differing in color, size, etc., but all having a somewhat musky
flavor. The muscat of Alexandria is a large oval grape of a pale
amber color. [Written also muskat.]

MUSCATEL
Mus"ca*tel`, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, or derived from, a muscat
grapes or similar grapes; a muscatel grapes; muscatel wine, etc.

MUSCATEL
Mus"ca*tel`, n.

1. A common name for several varieties of rich sweet wine, made in
Italy, Spain, and France.

2. pl.

Defn: Finest raisins, dried on the vine; "sun raisins." [Variously
written moscatel, muscadel, etc.]

MUSCHELKALK
Musch"el*kalk`, n. Etym: [G., from muschel shell + kalk limestone.]
(Geol.)

Defn: A kind of shell limestone, whose strata form the middle one of
the three divisions of the Triassic formation in Germany. See Chart,
under Geology.

MUSCI
Mus"ci, n. pl. Etym: [L. muscus moss.] (Bot.)

Defn: An order or subclass of cryptogamous plants; the mosses. See
Moss, and Cryptogamia.

MUSCICAPINE
Mus*cic"a*pine, a. Etym: [L. musca a fly + capere to catch.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Muscicapidæ, a family of birds that
includes the true flycatchers.

MUSCID
Mus"cid, n.

Defn: Any fly of the genus Musca, or family Muscidæ.

MUSCIFORM
Mus"ci*form, a. Etym: [Musca + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the form or structure of flies of the genus Musca, or
family Muscidæ.

MUSCIFORM
Mus"ci*form, a. Etym: [Muscus + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the appearance or form of a moss.

MUSCLE
Mus"cle, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. musculus a muscle, a little mouse, dim.
of mus a mouse. See Mouse, and cf. sense 3 (below).]

1. (Anat.)
(a) An organ which, by its contraction, produces motion. See Illust.
of Muscles of the Human Body, in Appendix.
(b) The contractile tissue of which muscles are largely made up.

Note: Muscles are of two kinds, striated and nonstriated. The
striated muscles, which, in most of the higher animals, constitute
the principal part of the flesh, exclusive of the fat, are mostly
under the control of the will, or voluntary, and are made up of great
numbers of elongated fibres bound together into bundles and inclosed
in a sheath of connective tissue, the perimysium. Each fiber is
inclosed in a delicate membrane (the sarcolemma), is made up of
alternate segments of lighter and darker material which give it a
transversely striated appearance, and contains, scattered through its
substance, protoplasmic nuclei, the so-called muscle corpuscles. The
nonstriated muscles are involuntary. They constitute a large part of
the walls of the alimentary canal, blood vessels, uterus, and
bladder, and are found also in the iris, skin, etc. They are made up
of greatly elongated cells, usually grouped in bundles or sheets.

2. Muscular strength or development; as, to show one's muscle by
lifting a heavy weight. [Colloq.]

3. Etym: [AS. muscle, L. musculus a muscle, mussel. See above.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mussel. Muscle curve (Physiol.), contraction curve of a
muscle; a myogram; the curve inscribed, upon a prepared surface, by
means of a myograph when acted upon by a contracting muscle. The
character of the curve represents the extent of the contraction.

MUSCLED
Mus"cled, a.

Defn: Furnished with muscles; having muscles; as, things well
muscled.

MUSCLE READING
Mus"cle read`ing.

Defn: The art of making discriminations between objects of choice, of
discovering the whereabouts of hidden objects, etc., by inference
from the involuntary movements of one whose hand the reader holds or
with whom he is otherwise in muscular contact.

MUSCLING
Mus"cling, n. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Exhibition or representation of the muscles. [R.]
A good piece, the painters say, must have good muscling, as well as
coloring and drapery. Shaftesbury.

MUSCOGEES
Mus*co"gees, n. pl.

Defn: See Muskogees.

MUSCOID
Mus"coid, a. Etym: [Muscus + -oid: cf. F. muscoide.] (Bot.)

Defn: Mosslike; resembling moss.

MUSCOID
Mus"coid, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A term formerly applied to any mosslike flowerless plant, with
a distinct stem, and often with leaves, but without any vascular
system.

MUSCOLOGY
Mus*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Muscus + -logy.]

Defn: Bryology.

MUSCOSITY
Mus*cos"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. muscosus mossy, fr. muscus moss.]

Defn: Mossiness. Jonhson.

MUSCOVADO
Mus`co*va"do, a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. Sp. mascabado; cf. Pg.
mascavado, F. moscouade, n., formerly also mascovade, It. mascavato.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, unrefined or raw sugar,
obtained from the juice of the sugar cane by evaporating and draining
off the molasses. Muscovado sugar contains impurities which render it
dark colored and moist.

MUSCOVADO
Mus`co*va"do, n.

Defn: Unrefined or raw sugar.

MUSCOVITE
Mus"co*vite, n. Etym: [See Muscovy glass.]

1. A native or inhabitant of Muscovy or ancient Russia; hence, a
Russian.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Common potash mica. See Mica.

MUSCOVY DUCK
Mus"co*vy duck`. Etym: [A corruption of musk duck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A duck (Cairina moschata), larger than the common duck, often
raised in poultry yards. Called also musk duck. It is native of
tropical America, from Mexico to Southern Brazil.

MUSCOVY GLASS
Mus"co*vy glass`. Etym: [From Muscovy, the old name of Russia: cf. F.
verre de Moscovie.]

Defn: Mica; muscovite. See Mica.

MUSCULAR
Mus"cu*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. musculaire. See Muscle.]

1. Of or pertaining to a muscle, or to a system of muscles;
consisting of, or constituting, a muscle or muscles; as, muscular
fiber.
Great muscular strength, accompanied by much awkwardness. Macaulay.

2. Performed by, or dependent on, a muscle or the muscles. "The
muscular motion." Arbuthnot.

3. Well furnished with muscles; having well-developed muscles;
brawny; hence, strong; powerful; vigorous; as, a muscular body or
arm. Muscular Christian, one who believes in a part of religious duty
to maintain a healthful and vigorous physical state. T. Hughes.
 -- Muscular CHristianity. (a) The practice and opinion of those
Christians who believe that it is a part of religious duty to
maintain a vigorous condition of the body, and who therefore approve
of athletic sports and exercises as conductive to good health, good
morals, and right feelings in religious matters. T. Hughes. (b) An
active, robust, and cheerful Christian life, as opposed to a
meditative and gloomy one. C. Kingsley.
 -- Muscular excitability (Physiol.), that property in virtue of
which a muscle shortens, when it is stimulated; irritability.
 -- Muscular sense (Physiol.), muscular sensibility; the sense by
which we obtain knowledge of the condition of our muscles and to what
extent they are contracted, also of the position of the various parts
of our bodies and the resistance offering by external objects.

MUSCULARITY
Mus`cu*lar"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being muscular. Grew.

MUSCULARIZE
Mus"cu*lar*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make muscular. Lowell.

MUSCULARLY
Mus"cu*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a muscular manner.

MUSCULATION
Mus`cu*la"tion, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The muscular system of an animal, or of any of its parts.

MUSCULATURE
Mus"cu*la*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. musculature.] (Anat.)

Defn: Musculation.

MUSCULE
Mus"cule, n. Etym: [L. musculus: cf. F. muscule.] (Mil.)

Defn: A long movable shed used by besiegers in ancient times in
attacking the walls of a fortified town.

MUSCULIN
Mus"cu*lin, n. Etym: [L. musculus a muscle.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: See Syntonin.

MUSCULOCUTANEOUS
Mus`cu*lo*cu*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. musculus + E. cutaneous.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining both to muscles and skin; as, the musculocutaneous
nerve.

MUSCULOPHRENIC
Mus`cu*lo*phren"ic, a. Etym: [L. musculus muscle + E. phrenic.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the muscles and the diaphragm; as, the
musculophrenic artery.

MUSCULOSITY
Mus`cu*los"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being musculous; muscularity. [Obs.]

MUSCULOSPIRAL
Mus`cu*lo*spi"ral, a. Etym: [L. musculus muscle + E. spiral.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the muscles, and taking a spiral course; --
applied esp. to a large nerve of the arm.

MUSCULOUS
Mus"cu*lous, a. Etym: [L. musculosus: cf. F. musculeux.]

Defn: Muscular. [Obs.] Jonhson.

MUSE
Muse, n. Etym: [From F. musse. See Muset.]

Defn: A gap or hole in a hedge, hence, wall, or the like, through
which a wild animal is accustomed to pass; a muset.
Find a hare without a muse. Old Prov.

MUSE
Muse, n. Etym: [F. Muse, L. Musa, Gr. Mosaic, n., Music.]

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: One of the nine goddesses who presided over song and the
different kinds of poetry, and also the arts and sciences; -- often
used in the plural.
Granville commands; your aid, O Muses, bring: What Muse for Granville
can refuse to sing Pope.

Note: The names of the Muses were Calliope, Clio, Erato, Euterpe,
Melpomene, Polymnia or Polyhymnia, Terpsichore, Thalia, and Urania.

2. A particular power and practice of poetry. Shak.

3. A poet; a bard. [R.] Milton.

MUSE
Muse, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mused; p. pr. & vb. n. Musing.] Etym: [F.
muser to loiter or trifle, orig., to stand with open mouth, fr. LL.
musus, morsus, muzzle, snout, fr. L. morsus a biting, bite, fr.
mordere to bite. See Morsel, and cf. Amuse, Muzzle, n.]

1. To think closely; to study in silence; to meditate. "Thereon mused
he." Chaucer.
He mused upon some dangerous plot. Sir P. Sidney.

2. To be absent in mind; to be so occupied in study or contemplation
as not to observe passing scenes or things present; to be in a brown
study. Daniel.

3. To wonder. [Obs.] Spenser. B. Jonson.

Syn.
 -- To consider; meditate; ruminate. See Ponder.

MUSE
Muse, v. t.

1. To think on; to meditate on.
Come, then, expressive Silence, muse his praise. Thomson.

2. To wonder at. [Obs.] Shak.

MUSE
Muse, n.

1. Contemplation which abstracts the mind from passing scenes;
absorbing thought; hence, absence of mind; a brown study. Milton.

2. Wonder, or admiration. [Obs.] Spenser.

MUSEFUL
Muse"ful, a.

Defn: Meditative; thoughtfully silent. "Museful mopings." Dryden.
 -- Muse"ful*ly, adv.

MUSELESS
Muse"less, a.

Defn: Unregardful of the Muses; disregarding the power of poetry;
unpoetical. Milton.

MUSER
Mus"er, n.

Defn: One who muses.

MUSET
Mu"set, n. Etym: [OF. mussette, dim. of musse, muce, a hiding place,
fr. F. musser, OF. mucier, muchier, to conceal, hide. Cf. Micher.]

Defn: A small hole or gap through which a wild animal passes; a muse.
Shak.

MUSETTE
Mu*sette", n. Etym: [F., dim. of OF. muse.]

1. A small bagpipe formerly in use, having a soft and sweet tone.

2. An air adapted to this instrument; also, a kind of rustic dance.

MUSEUM
Mu*se"um, n. Etym: [L., a temple of the Muses, hence, a place of
study, fr. Gr.

Defn: A repository or a collection of natural, scientific, or
literary curiosities, or of works of art. Museum beetle, Museum pest.
(Zoöl.) See Anthrenus.

MUSH
Mush, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. mus, muss, pap, porridge, any thick
preparation of fruit, OHG. muos; akin to AS. & OS. mos food, and
prob, to E. meat. See Meat.]

Defn: Meal (esp. Indian meal) boiled in water; hasty pudding; supawn.
[U.S.]

MUSH
Mush, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. moucheter to cut with small cuts.]

Defn: To notch, cut, or indent, as cloth, with a stamp.

MUSHROOM
Mush"room, n. Etym: [OE. muscheron, OF. mouscheron, F. mousseron;
perhaps fr. mousse moss, of German origin. See Moss.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) An edible fungus (Agaricus campestris), having a white stalk
which bears a convex or oven flattish expanded portion called the
pileus. This is whitish and silky or somewhat scaly above, and bears
on the under side radiating gills which are at first flesh-colored,
but gradually become brown. The plant grows in rich pastures and is
proverbial for rapidity of growth and shortness of duration. It has a
pleasant smell, and is largely used as food. It is also cultivated
from spawn.
(b) Any large fungus, especially one of the genus Agaricus; a
toadstool. Several species are edible; but many are very poisonous.

2. One who rises suddenly from a low condition in life; an upstart.
Bacon.

MUSHROOM
Mush"room, a.

1. Of or pertaining to mushrooms; as, mushroom catchup.

2. Resembling mushrooms in rapidity of growth and shortness of
duration; short-lived; ephemerial; as, mushroom cities. Mushroom
anchor, an anchor shaped like a mushroom, capable of grasping the
ground in whatever way it falls.
 -- Mushroom coral (Zoöl.), any coral of the genus Fungia. See
Fungia.
 -- Mushroom spawn (Bot.), the mycelium, or primary filamentous
growth, of the mushroom; also, cakes of earth and manure containing
this growth, which are used for propagation of the mushroom.

MUSHROOM-HEADED
Mush"room-head`ed, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a cylindrical body with a convex head of larger
diameter; having a head like that of a mushroom.

MUSHY
Mush"y, a.

Defn: Soft like mush; figuratively, good-naturedly weak and effusive;
weakly sentimental.
She 's not mushy, but her heart is tender. G. Eliot.

MUSIC
Mu"sic, n. Etym: [F. musique, fr. L. musica, Gr.

1. The science and the art of tones, or musical sounds, i.e., sounds
of higher or lower pitch, begotten of uniform and synchronous
vibrations, as of a string at various degrees of tension; the science
of harmonical tones which treats of the principles of harmony, or the
properties, dependences, and relations of tones to each other; the
art of combining tones in a manner to please the ear.

Note: Not all sounds are tones. Sounds may be unmusical and yet
please the ear. Music deals with tones, and with no other sounds. See
Tone.

2.
(a) Melody; a rhythmical and otherwise agreeable succession of tones.
(b) Harmony; an accordant combination of simultaneous tones.

3. The written and printed notation of a musical composition; the
score.

4. Love of music; capacity of enjoying music.
The man that hath ni music in himself Nor is not moved with concord
of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils. Shak.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A more or less musical sound made by many of the lower animals.
See Stridulation. Magic music, a game in which a person is guided in
finding a hidden article, or in doing a specific art required, by
music which is made more loud or rapid as he approaches success, and
slower as he recedes. Tennyson.
 -- Music box. See Musical box, under Musical.
 -- Music hall, a place for public musical entertainments.
 -- Music loft, a gallery for musicians, as in a dancing room or a
church.
 -- Music of the spheres, the harmony supposed to be produced by the
accordant movement of the celestial spheres.
 -- Music paper, paper ruled with the musical staff, for the use of
composers and copyists.
 -- Music pen, a pen for ruling at one time the five lines of the
musical staff.
 -- Music shell (Zoöl.), a handsomely colored marine gastropod shell
(Voluta musica) found in the East Indies; -- so called because the
color markings often resemble printed music. Sometimes applied to
other shells similarly marked.
 -- To face the music, to meet any disagreeable necessity without
flinching. [Colloq. or Slang]

MUSICAL
Mu"sic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. musical.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to music; having the qualities of music; or
the power of producing music; devoted to music; melodious;
harmonious; as, musical proportion; a musical voice; musical
instruments; a musical sentence; musical persons. Musical, or Music,
box, a box or case containing apparatus moved by clockwork so as to
play certain tunes automatically.
 -- Musical fish (Zoöl.), any fish which utters sounds under water,
as the drumfish, grunt, gizzard shad, etc.
 -- Musical glasses, glass goblets or bowls so tuned and arranged
that when struck, or rubbed, they produce musical notes. CF.
Harmonica, 1.

MUSICAL
Mu"sic*al, n.

1. Music. [Obs.]
To fetch home May with their musical. Spenser.

2. A social entertainment of which music is the leading feature; a
musical party. [Colloq.]

MUSICALE
Mu`si`cale", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Soirée musicale.]

Defn: A social musical party. [Colloq.]

MUSICALLY
Mu"sic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a musical manner.

MUSICALNESS
Mu"sic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being musical.

MUSIC DRAMA
Mu"sic dra`ma.

Defn: An opera in which the text and action are not interrupted by
set arias, duets, etc., the music being determined throughout by
dramatic appropriateness; musical drama of this character, in
general. It involves the use of a kind of melodious declamation, the
development of leitmotif, great orchestral elaboration, and a fusion
of poetry, music, action, and scene into an organic whole. The term
is applied esp. to the later works of Wagner: "Tristan und Isolde,"
"Die Meistersinger," "Rheingold," "Walküre," "Siegfried,"
"Götterdämmerung," and "Parsifal."

MUSIC HALL
Music hall.

Defn: A place for public musical entertainments; specif. (Eng.), esp.
a public hall for vaudeville performances, in which smoking and
drinking are usually allowed in the auditorium.

MUSICIAN
Mu*si"cian, n. Etym: [F. musicien.]

Defn: One skilled in the art or science of music; esp., a skilled
singer, or performer on a musical instrument.

MUSICOMANIA
Mu`si*co*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Music + mania: cf. F. musicomanie.]
(Med.)

Defn: A kind of monomania in which the passion for music becomes so
strong as to derange the intellectual faculties. Dunglison.

MUSIMON
Mus"i*mon, n. Etym: [See Musmon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mouflon.

MUSINGLY
Mus"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a musing manner.

MUSIT
Mu"sit, n.

Defn: See Muset.

MUSK
Musk, n. Etym: [F. musc, L. muscus, Per. musk, fr. Skr. mushka
testicle, orig., a little mouse. See Mouse, and cd. Abelmosk,
Muscadel, Muscovy duck, Nutmeg.]

1. A substance of a reddish brown color, and when fresh of the
consistence of honey, obtained from a bag being behind the navel of
the male musk deer. It has a slightly bitter taste, but is specially
remarkable for its powerful and enduring odor. It is used in medicine
as a stimulant antispasmodic. The term is also applied to secretions
of various other animals, having a similar odor.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The musk deer. See Musk deer (below).

3. The perfume emitted by musk, or any perfume somewhat similar.

4. (Bot.)
(a) The musk plant (Mimulus moschatus).
(b) A plant of the genus Erodium (E. moschatum); -- called also musky
heron's-bill.
(c) A plant of the genus Muscari; grape hyacinth. Musk beaver
(Zoöl.), muskrat (1).
 -- Musk beetle (Zoöl.), a European longicorn beetle (Aromia
moschata), having an agreeable odor resembling that of attar of
roses.
 -- Musk cat. See Bondar.
 -- Musk cattle (Zoöl.), musk oxen. See Musk ox (below).
 -- Musk deer (Zoöl.), a small hornless deer (Moschus moschiferus),
which inhabits the elevated parts of Central Asia. The upper canine
teeth of the male are developed into sharp tusks, curved downward.
The male has scent bags on the belly, from which the musk of commerce
is derived. The deer is yellow or red-brown above, whitish below. The
pygmy musk deer are chevrotains, as the kanchil and napu.
 -- Musk duck. (Zoöl.) (a) The Muscovy duck. (b) An Australian duck
(Biziura lobata).
 -- Musk lorikeet (Zoöl.), the Pacific lorikeet (Glossopsitta
australis) of Australia.
 -- Musk mallow (Bot.), a name of two malvaceous plants: (a) A
species of mallow (Malva moschata), the foliage of which has a faint
musky smell. (b) An Asiatic shrub. See Abelmosk.
 -- Musk orchis (Bot.), a European plant of the Orchis family
(Herminium Minorchis); -- so called from its peculiar scent.
 -- Musk ox (Zoöl.), an Arctic hollow-horned ruminant (Ovibos
moschatus), now existing only in America, but found fossil in Europe
and Asia. It is covered with a thick coat of fine yellowish wool, and
with long dark hair, which is abundant and shaggy on the neck and
shoulders. The full-grown male weighs over four hundred pounds.
 -- Musk parakeet. (Zoöl.) Same as Musk lorikeet (above).
 -- Musk pear (Bot.), a fragrant kind of pear much resembling the
Seckel pear.
 -- Musk plant (Bot.), the Mimulus moschatus, a plant found in
Western North America, often cultivated, and having a strong musky
odor.
 -- Musk root (Bot.), the name of several roots with a strong odor,
as that of the nard (Nardostachys Jatamansi) and of a species of
Angelica.
 -- Musk rose (Bot.), a species of rose (Rosa moschata), having
peculiarly fragrant white blossoms.
 -- Musk seed (Bot.), the seed of a plant of the Mallow family
(Hibiscus moschatus), used in perfumery and in flavoring. See
Abelmosk.
 -- Musk sheep (Zoöl.), the musk ox.
 -- Musk shrew (Zoöl.), a shrew (Sorex murinus), found in India. It
has a powerful odor of musk. Called also sondeli, and mondjourou.
 -- Musk thistle (Bot.), a species of thistle (Carduus nutans),
having fine large flowers, and leaves smelling strongly of musk.
 -- Musk tortoise, Musk turtle (Zoöl.), a small American fresh-water
tortoise (Armochelys, or Ozotheca, odorata), which has a distinct
odor of musk; -- called also stinkpot.

MUSK
Musk, v. t.

Defn: To perfume with musk.

MUSKADEL
Mus"ka*del`, n.

Defn: See Muscadel.

MUSKAT
Mus"kat, n.

Defn: See Muscat.

MUSKELLUNGE
Mus"kel*lunge, n. Etym: [From the Amer. Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large American pike (Esox nobilitor) found in the Great
Lakes, and other Northern lakes, and in the St. Lawrence River. It is
valued as a food fish. [Written also maskallonge, maskinonge,
muskallonge, muskellonge, and muskelunjeh.]

MUSKET
Mus"ket, n. Etym: [F. mousquet, It. moschetto, formerly, a kind of
hawk; cf. OF. mousket, moschet, a kind of hawk falcon, F. mouchet,
prop., a little fly (the hawk prob. being named from its size), fr.
L. musca a fly. Cf. Mosquito.] [Sometimes written also musquet.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The male of the sparrow hawk.

2. A species of firearm formerly carried by the infantry of an army.
It was originally fired by means of a match, or matchlock, for which
several mechanical appliances (including the flintlock, and finally
the percussion lock) were successively substituted. This arm has been
generally superseded by the rifle.

MUSKETEER
Mus`ket*eer", n. Etym: [F. mousquetaire; cf. It. moschettiere.]

Defn: A soldier armed with a musket.

MUSKETO
Mus*ke"to, n.

Defn: See Mosquito.

MUSKETOON
Mus`ket*oon", n. Etym: [F. mousqueton; cf. It. moschettone.]

1. A short musket.

2. One who is armed with such a musket.

MUSKETRY
Mus"ket*ry, n. Etym: [F. mousqueterie; cf. It. moschetteria.]

1. Muskets, collectively.

2. The fire of muskets. Motley.

MUSKINESS
Musk"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being musky; the scent of musk.

MUSKMELON
Musk"mel`on, n. Etym: [Musk + melon.] (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of a cucubritaceous plant (Cicumis Melo), having a
peculiar aromatic flavor, and cultivated in many varieties, the
principal sorts being the cantaloupe, of oval form and yellowish
flesh, and the smaller nutmeg melon with greenish flesh. See Illust.
of Melon.

MUSKOGEES
Mus*ko"gees, n. pl.; sing. Muskogee (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A powerful tribe of North American Indians that formerly
occupied the region of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. They
constituted a large part of the Creek confederacy. [Written also
Muscogees.]

MUSKRAT
Musk"rat`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A North American aquatic fur-bearing rodent (Fiber zibethicus).
It resembles a rat in color and having a long scaly tail, but the
tail is compressed, the bind feet are webbed, and the ears are
concealed in the fur. It has scent glands which secrete a substance
having a strong odor of musk. Called also musquash, musk beaver, and
ondatra.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The musk shrew.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The desman.

MUSKWOOD
Musk"wood`, n. Etym: [So called from its fragrance.] (Bot.)
(a) The wood of a West Indian tree of the Mahogany family
(Moschoxylum Swartzii).
(b) The wood of an Australian tree (Eurybia argophylla).

MUSKY
Musk"y, a.

Defn: Having an odor of musk, or somewhat the like. Milton.

MUSLIM
Mus"lim, n.

Defn: See Moslem.

MUSLIN
Mus"lin, n. Etym: [F. mousseline; cf. It. mussolino, mussolo, Sp.
muselina; all from Mussoul a city of Mesopotamia, Ar. Mausil, Syr.
Mauzol, Muzol, Mosul, where it was first manufactured. Cf. Mull a
kind of cloth.]

Defn: A thin cotton, white, dyed, or printed. The name is also
applied to coarser and heavier cotton goods; as, shirting and
sheeting muslins. Muslin cambric. See Cambric.
 -- Muslin delaine, a light woolen fabric for women's dresses. See
Delaine. [Written also mousseline de laine.]

MUSLINET
Mus`lin*et", n. Etym: [F. mousselinette.]

Defn: A sort of coarse or light cotton cloth.

MUSMON
Mus"mon, n. Etym: [L. musmo, musimo, a Sardinian animal; cf. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mouflon.

MUSOMANIA
Mu`so*ma"ni*a, n.

Defn: See Musicomania.

MUSQUASH
Mus"quash, n. Etym: [American Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Muskrat. Musquash root (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant
(Cicuta maculata), having a poisonous root. See Water hemlock.

MUSQUAW
Mus"quaw, n. Etym: [American Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American black bear. See Bear.

MUSQUET
Mus"quet, n.

Defn: See Musket.

MUSQUITO
Mus*qui"to, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mosquito.

MUSROLE; MUSROL
Mus"role, Mus"rol, n. Etym: [F. muserolle, fr. muserau a muzzle, OF.
musel. See Muzzle.]

Defn: The nose band of a horse's bridle.

MUSS
Muss, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. mousche a fly, also, the play called muss,
fr. L. musca a fly.]

Defn: A scramble, as when small objects are thrown down, to be taken
by those who can seize them; a confused struggle. Shak.

MUSS
Muss, n.

Defn: A state of confusion or disorder; -- prob. variant of mess, but
influenced by muss, a scramble. [Colloq. U.S.]

MUSS
Muss, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mussed; p. pr. & vb. n. Mussing.]

Defn: To disarrange, as clothing; to rumple. [Colloq. U.S.]

MUSS
Muss, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. mus a mouse. See Mouse.]

Defn: A term of endearment. [Obs.] See Mouse. B. Jonson.

MUSSEL
Mus"sel, n. Etym: [See Muscle, 3.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of many species of marine bivalve shells of the genus
Mytilus, and related genera, of the family Mytidæ. The common mussel
(Mytilus edulis; see Illust. under Byssus), and the larger, or horse,
mussel (Modiola modiolus), inhabiting the shores both of Europe and
America, are edible. The former is extensively used as food in
Europe.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of Unio, and related fresh-water
genera; -- called also river mussel. See Naiad, and Unio. Mussel
digger (Zoöl.), the grayback whale. See Gray whale, under Gray.

MUSSITATION
Mus`si*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. mussitatio suppression of the voice, fr.
mussitare to be silent, to murmur.]

Defn: A speaking in a low tone; mumbling. [Obs.]

MUSSITE
Mus"site, n. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of pyroxene, from the Mussa Alp in Piedmont;
diopside.

MUSSULMAN
Mus"sul*man, n.; pl. Mussulmans. Etym: [Ar. muslimin, pl. of muslim:
cf. F. & Sp. musulman. See Moslem.]

Defn: A Mohammedan; a Moslem.

MUSSULMANIC
Mus`sul*man"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, the Mussulmans, or their customs:
Mohammedan.

MUSSULMANISH
Mus"sul*man*ish, a.

Defn: Mohammedan.

MUSSULMANISM
Mus"sul*man*ism, n.

Defn: Mohammedanism.

MUSSULMANLY
Mus"sul*man*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of Moslems.

MUSSY
Muss"y, a. Etym: [From 2d Muss.]

Defn: Disarranged; rumpled. [Colloq. U.S.]

MUST
Must, v. i. or auxiliary. Etym: [OE. moste, a pret. generally
meaning, could, was free to, pres. mot, moot, AS. moste, pret. mot,
pres.; akin to D. moetan to be obliged, OS. motan to be free, to be
obliged, OHG. muozan, G. müssen to be obliged, Sw. måste must, Goth.
gamotan to have place, have room, to able; of unknown origin.]

1. To be obliged; to be necessitated; -- expressing either physical
or moral necessity; as, a man must eat for nourishment; we must
submit to the laws.

2. To be morally required; to be necessary or essential to a certain
quality, character, end, or result; as, he must reconsider the
matter; he must have been insane.
Likewise must the deacons be grave. 1 Tim. iii. 8.
Morover, he [a bishop] must have a good report of them which are
without. 1 Tim. iii. 7.

Note: The principal verb, if easy supplied by the mind, was formerly
often omitted when must was used; as, I must away. "I must to
Coventry." Shak.

MUST
Must, n. Etym: [AS. must, fr. L. mustum (sc. vinum), from mustus
young, new, fresh. Cf. Mustard.]

1. The expressed juice of the grape, or other fruit, before
fermentation. "These men ben full of must." Wyclif (Acts ii. 13. ).
No fermenting must fills ... the deep vats. Longfellow.

2. Etym: [Cf. Musty.]

Defn: Mustiness.

MUST
Must, v. t. & i.

Defn: To make musty; to become musty.

MUSTAC
Mus"tac, n. Etym: [F. moustac.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small tufted monkey.

MUSTACHE
Mus*tache", n.; pl. Mustaches (. [Written also moustache.] Etym: [F.
moustache, It. mostaccio visage, mostacchio mustache, fr. Gr.
mostacho.]

1. That part of the beard which grows on the upper lip; hair left
growing above the mouth.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West African monkey (Cercopithecus cephus). It has yellow
whiskers, and a triangular blue mark on the nose.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any conspicuous stripe of color on the side of the head,
beneath the eye of a bird.

MUSTACHO
Mus*ta"cho, n.; pl. Mustachios (.

Defn: A mustache. Longfellow.

MUSTACHOED
Mus*ta"choed, a.

Defn: Having mustachios.

MUSTAHFIZ
Mus`tah"fiz`, n. [Turk. & Ar. mustahsfizs who trusts to another's
keeping, a soldier of a garrison.]

Defn: See Army organization, above.

MUSTAIBA
Mus`ta*i"ba, n.

Defn: A close-grained, neavy wood of a brownish color, brought from
Brazil, and used in turning, for making the handles of tools, and the
like. [Written also mostahiba.] MaElrath.

MUSTANG
Mus"tang, n. Etym: [Sp. musteño belonging to the graziers, strayed,
wild.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The half-wild horse of the plains in Mexico, California, etc.
It is small, hardy, and easily sustained. Mustard grape (Bot.), a
species of grape (Vitis candicans), native in Arkansas and Texas. The
berries are small, light-colored, with an acid skin and a sweet pulp.

MUSTARD
Mus"tard, n. Etym: [OF. moustarde, F. moutarde, fr. L. mustum must, -
- mustard was prepared for use by being mixed with must. See Must,
n.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of several cruciferous plants of the genus Brassica
(formerly Sinapis), as white mustard (B. alba), black mustard (B.
Nigra), wild mustard or charlock (B. Sinapistrum).

Note: There are also many herbs of the same family which are called
mustard, and have more or less of the flavor of the true mustard; as,
bowyer's mustard (Lepidium ruderale); hedge mustard (Sisymbrium
officinale); Mithridate mustard (Thlaspi arvense); tower mustard
(Arabis perfoliata); treacle mustard (Erysimum cheiranthoides).

2. A powder or a paste made from the seeds of black or white mustard,
used as a condiment and a rubefacient. Taken internally it is
stimulant and diuretic, and in large doses is emetic. Mustard oil
(Chem.), a substance obtained from mustard, as a transparent,
volatile and intensely pungent oil. The name is also extended to a
number of analogous compounds produced either naturally or
artificially.

MUSTEE
Mus*tee", n.

Defn: See Mestee.

MUSTELINE
Mus"te*line, a. Etym: [L. mustelinus, fr. mustela weasel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the family Mustelidæ, or the weasels and
martens.

MUSTER
Mus"ter, n. Etym: [OE. moustre, OF. mostre, moustre, F. montre, LL.
monstra. See Muster, v. t.]

1. Something shown for imitation; a pattern. [Obs.]

2. A show; a display. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

3. An assembling or review of troops, as for parade, verification of
numbers, inspection, exercise, or introduction into service.
The hurried muster of the soldiers of liberty. Hawthorne.
See how in warlike muster they appear, In rhombs, and wedges, and
half-moons, and wings. Milton.

4. The sum total of an army when assembled for review and inspection;
the whole number of effective men in an army.
And the muster was thirty thousands of men. Wyclif.
Ye publish the musters of your own bands, and proclaim them to amount
of thousands. Hooker.

5. Any assemblage or display; a gathering.
Of the temporal grandees of the realm, mentof their wives and
daughters, the muster was great and splendid. Macaulay.
Muster book, a book in which military forces are registred.
 -- Muster file, a muster roll.
 -- Muster master (Mil.), one who takes an account of troops, and of
their equipment; a mustering officer; an inspector. [Eng.] -- Muster
roll (Mil.), a list or register of all the men in a company, troop,
or regiment, present or accounted for on the day of muster.
 -- To pass muster, to pass through a muster or inspection without
censure.
Such excuses will not pass muster with God. South.

MUSTER
Mus"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mustered; p. pr. & vb. n. Mustering.]
Etym: [OE. mustren, prop., to show, OF. mostrer, mustrer, moustrer,
monstrer, F. montrer, fr. L. monstrare to show. See Monster.]

1. To collect and display; to assemble, as troops for parade,
inspection, exercise, or the like. Spenser.

2. Hence: To summon together; to enroll in service; to get together.
"Mustering all its force." Cowper.
All the gay feathers he could muster. L'Estrange.
To muster troops into service (Mil.), to inspect and enter troops on
the muster roll of the army.
 -- To muster troops out of service (Mil.), to register them for
final payment and discharge.
 -- To muster up, to gather up; to succeed in obtaining; to obtain
with some effort or difficulty.
One of those who can muster up sufficient sprightliness to engage in
a game of forfeits. Hazlitt.

MUSTER
Mus"ter, v. i.

Defn: To be gathered together for parade, inspection, exercise, or
the like; to come together as parts of a force or body; as, his
supporters mustered in force. "The mustering squadron." Byron.

MUSTILY
Mus"ti*ly, a.

Defn: In a musty state.

MUSTINESS
Mus"ti*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being musty.

MUSTY
Mus"ty, a. [Compar. Mustier; superl. Mustiest.] Etym: [From L. mustum
must; or perh. fr. E. moist. Cf. Must, n., Moist.]

1. Having the rank, pungent, offencive odor and taste which
substances of organic origin acquire during warm, moist weather; foul
or sour and fetid; moldy; as, musty corn; musty books. Harvey.

2. Spoiled by age; rank; stale.
The proverb is somewhat musty. Shak.

3. Dull; heavy; spiritless. "That he may not grow musty and unfit for
conversation." Addison.

MUTABILITY
Mu`ta*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. mutabilitas: cf. F. mutabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being mutable, or subject to change or
alteration, either in form, state, or essential character;
susceptibility of change; changeableness; inconstancy; variation.
Plato confessed that the heavens and the frame of the world are
corporeal, and therefore subject to mutability. Stillingfleet.

MUTABLE
Mu"ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. mutabilis, fr. mutare to change. See Move.]

1. Capable of alteration; subject to change; changeable in form,
qualities, or nature.
Things of the most accidental and mutable nature. South.

2. Changeable; inconstant; unsettled; unstable; fickle. "Most mutable
wishes." Byron.

Syn.
 -- Changeable; alterable; unstable; unsteady; unsettled; wavering;
inconstant; variable; fickle.

MUTABLENESS
Mu"ta*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being mutable.

MUTABLY
Mu"ta*bly, adv.

Defn: Changeably.

MUTACISM
Mu"ta*cism, n.

Defn: See Mytacism.

MUTAGE
Mu"tage, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A process for checking the fermentation of the must of grapes.

MUTANDUM
Mu*tan"dum, n.; pl. Mutanda. Etym: [L., fr. mutare to change.]

Defn: A thing which is to be changed; something which must be
altered; -- used chiefly in the plural.

MUTATION
Mu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. mutatio, fr. mutare to change: cf. F.
mutation. See Mutable.]

Defn: Change; alteration, either in form or qualities.
The vicissitude or mutations in the superior globe are no fit matter
for this present argument. Bacon.

MUTCH
Mutch, n. Etym: [Cf. D. mutse a cap, G. mütze. Cf. Amice a cape.]

Defn: The close linen or muslin cap of an old woman. [Prov. Eng. &
Scot.]

MUTCHKIN
Mutch"kin, n.

Defn: A liquid measure equal to four gills, or an imperial pint.
[Scot.]

MUTE
Mute, v. t. Etym: [L. mutare to change. See Molt.]

Defn: To cast off; to molt.
Have I muted all my feathers Beau. & Fl.

MUTE
Mute, v. t. & i. Etym: [F. mutir, émeutir, OF. esmeltir, fr. OD.
smelten, prop., to melt. See Smelt.]

Defn: To eject the contents of the bowels; -- said of birds. B.
Jonson.

MUTE
Mute, n.

Defn: The dung of birds. Hudibras.

MUTE
Mute, a. Etym: [L. mutus; cf. Gr. m bound, m dumb: cf. OE. muet, fr.
F. muet, a dim. of OF. mu, L. mutus.]

1. Not speaking; uttering no sound; silent.
All the heavenly choir stood mute, And silence was in heaven. Milton.

Note: In law a prisoner is said to stand mute, when, upon being
arranged, he makes no answer, or does not plead directly, or will not
put himself on trial.

2. Incapable of speaking; dumb. Dryden.

3. Not uttered; unpronounced; silent; also, produced by complete
closure of the mouth organs which interrupt the passage of breath; --
said of certain letters. See 5th Mute, 2.

4. Not giving a ringing sound when struck; -- said of a metal. Mute
swan (Zoöl.), a European wild white swan (Cygnus gibbus), which
produces no loud notes.

Syn.
 -- Silent; dumb; speechless.
 -- Mute, Silent, Dumb. One is silent who does not speak; one is dumb
who can not, for want of the proper organs; as, a dumb beast, etc.;
and hence, figuratively, we speak of a person as struck dumb with
astonishment, etc. One is mute who is held back from speaking by some
special cause; as, he was mute through fear; mute astonishment, etc.
Such is the case with most of those who never speak from childhood;
they are not ordinarily dumb, but mute because they are deaf, and
therefore never learn to talk; and hence their more appropriate name
is deaf-mutes.
They spake not a word; But, like dumb statues, or breathing stones,
Gazed each on other. Shak.
All sat mute, Pondering the danger with deep thoughts. Milton.

MUTE
Mute, n.

1. One who does not speak, whether from physical inability,
unwillingness, or other cause. Specifically:
(a) One who, from deafness, either congenital or from early life, is
unable to use articulate language; a deaf-mute.
(b) A person employed by undertakers at a funeral.
(c) A person whose part in a play does not require him to speak.
(d) Among the Turks, an officer or attendant who is selected for his
place because he can not speak.

2. (Phon.)

Defn: A letter which represents no sound; a silent letter; also, a
close articulation; an element of speech formed by a position of the
mouth organs which stops the passage of the breath; as, p, b, d, k,
t.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A little utensil made of brass, ivory, or other material, so
formed that it can be fixed in an erect position on the bridge of a
violin, or similar instrument, in order to deaden or soften the tone.

MUTE-HILL
Mute"-hill`, n.

Defn: See Moot-hill. [Scot.]

MUTELY
Mute"ly, adv.

Defn: Without uttering words or sounds; in a mute manner; silently.

MUTENESS
Mute"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being mute; speechlessness.

MUTESSARIF
Mu*tes`sa*rif", n. [Turk. & Ar. muteçarif freely disposing of
anything, master.]

Defn: In Turkey, an administrative authority of any of certain
sanjaks. They are appointed directly by the Sultan.

MUTESSARIFAT
Mu*tes`sa*ri*fat", n. [Turk. & Ar. muteçarifah office of a
mutessarif.]

Defn: In Turkey, a sanjak whose head is a mutessarif.

MUTIC; MUTICOUS
Mu"tic, Mu"ti*cous, a. Etym: [L. muticus, for mutilus. See Mutilate.]
(Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Without a point or pointed process; blunt.

MUTILATE
Mu"ti*late, a. Etym: [L. mutilatus, p.p. of mutilare to mutilate, fr.
mutilus maimed; cf. Gr. Mutton.]

1. Deprived of, or having lost, an important part; mutilated. Sir T.
Browne.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having finlike appendages or flukes instead of legs, as a
cetacean.

MUTILATE
Mu"ti*late, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cetacean, or a sirenian.

MUTILATE
Mu"ti*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mutilated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Mutilating.]

1. To cut off or remove a limb or essential part of; to maim; to
cripple; to hack; as, to mutilate the body, a statue, etc.

2. To destroy or remove a material part of, so as to render
imperfect; as, to mutilate the orations of Cicero.
Among the mutilated poets of antiquity, there is none whose fragments
are so beautiful as those of Sappho. Addison.
Mutilated gear, Mutilated wheel (Mach.), a gear wheel from a portion
of whose periphery the cogs are omitted. It is used for giving
intermittent movements.

MUTILATION
Mu`ti*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. mutilatio: cf. F. mutilation.]

Defn: The act of mutilating, or the state of being mutilated;
deprivation of a limb or of an essential part.

MUTILATOR
Mu"ti*la"tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mutilateur.]

Defn: One who mutilates.

MUTILOUS
Mu"ti*lous, a. Etym: [L. mutilus. See Mutilate.]

Defn: Mutilated; defective; imperfect. [Obs.]

MUTINE
Mu"tine, n. Etym: [F. mutin.]

Defn: A mutineer. [Obs.]

MUTINE
Mu"tine, v. i. Etym: [F. mutiner.]

Defn: To mutiny. [Obs.]

MUTINEER
Mu"ti*neer`, n. Etym: [See Mutiny.]

Defn: One guilty of mutiny.

MUTING
Mut"ing, n.

Defn: Dung of birds.

MUTINOUS
Mu"ti*nous, a. Etym: [See Mutiny.]

Defn: Disposed to mutiny; in a state of mutiny; characterized by
mutiny; seditious; insubordinate.
The city was becoming mutinous. Macaulay.
-- Mu"ti*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Mu"ti*nous*ness, n.

MUTINY
Mu"ti*ny, n.; pl. Mutinies. Etym: [From mutine to mutiny, fr. F. se
mutiner, fr. F. mutin stubborn, mutinous, fr. OF. meute riot, LL.
movita, fr. movitus, for L. motus, p.p. of movere to move. See Move.]

1. Insurrection against constituted authority, particularly military
or naval authority; concerted revolt against the rules of discipline
or the lawful commands of a superior officer; hence, generally,
forcible resistance to rightful authority; insubordination.
In every mutiny against the discipline of the college, he was the
ringleader. Macaulay.

2. Violent commotion; tumult; strife. [Obs.]
o raise a mutiny betwixt yourselves. Shak.
Mutiny act (Law), an English statute reënacted annually to punish
mutiny and desertion. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- See Insurrection.

MUTINY
Mu"ti*ny, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mutinied; p. pr. & vb. n. Mutinying.]

1. To rise against, or refuse to obey, lawful authority in military
or naval service; to excite, or to be guilty of, mutiny or mutinous
conduct; to revolt against one's superior officer, or any rightful
authority.

2. To fall into strifle; to quarrel. [Obs.] Shak.

MUTISM
Mut"ism, n.

Defn: The condition, state, or habit of being mute, or without
speech. Max Müller.

MUTOSCOPE
Mu"to*scope, n. [L. mutare to change + -scope.]

Defn: A simple form of moving-picture machine in which the series of
views, exhibiting the successive phases of a scene, are printed on
paper and mounted around the periphery of a wheel. The rotation of
the wheel brings them rapidly into sight, one after another, and the
blended effect gives a semblance of motion.

MUTTER
Mut"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Muttered; p. pr. & vb. n. Muttering.]
Etym: [Prob. of imitative origin; cf. L. muttire, mutire.]

1. To utter words indistinctly or with a low voice and lips partly
closed; esp., to utter indistinct complains or angry expressions; to
grumble; to growl.
Wizards that peep, and that mutter. Is. viii. 19.
Meantime your filthy foreigner will stare, And mutter to himself.
Dryden.

2. To sound with a low, rumbling noise.
Thick lightings flash, the muttering thunder rolls. Pope.

MUTTER
Mut"ter, v. t.

Defn: To utter with imperfect articulations, or with a low voice; as,
to mutter threats. Shak.

MUTTER
Mut"ter, n.

Defn: Repressing or obscure utterance.

MUTTERER
Mut"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who mutters.

MUTTERINGLY
Mut"ter*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With a low voice and indistinct articulation; in a muttering
manner.

MUTTON
Mut"ton, n. Etym: [OE. motoun, OF. moton, molton, a sheep, wether, F.
mouton, LL. multo, by transposition of l fr. L. mutilus mutilated.
See Mutilate.]

1. A sheep. [Obs.] Chapman.
Not so much ground as will feed a mutton. Sir H. Sidney.
Muttons, beeves, and porkers are good old words for the living
quadrupeds. Hallam.

2. The flesh of a sheep.
The fat of roasted mutton or beef. Swift.

3. A loose woman; a prostitute. [Obs.] Mutton bird (Zoöl.), the
Australian short-tailed petrel (Nectris brevicaudus).
 -- Mutton chop, a rib of mutton for broiling, with the end of the
bone at the smaller part chopped off.
 -- Mutton fish (Zoöl.), the American eelpout. See Eelpout.
 -- Mutton fist, a big brawny fist or hand. [Colloq.] Dryden.
 -- Mutton monger, a pimp [Low & Obs.] Chapman.
 -- To return to one's muttons. Etym: [A translation of a phrase from
a farce by De Brueys, revenons à nos moutons let us return to our
sheep.] To return to one's topic, subject of discussion, etc.
[Humorous]
I willingly return to my muttons. H. R. Haweis.

MUTTONY
Mut"ton*y, a.

Defn: Like mutton; having a flavor of mutton.

MUTUAL
Mu"tu*al, a. Etym: [F. mutuel, L. mutuus, orig., exchanged, borrowed,
lent; akin to mutare to change. See Mutable.]

1. Reciprocally acting or related; reciprocally receiving and giving;
reciprocally given and received; reciprocal; interchanged; as, a
mutual love, advantage, assistance, aversion, etc.
Conspiracy and mutual promise. Sir T. More.
Happy in our mutual help, And mutual love. Milton.
A certain shyness on such subjects, which was mutual between the
sisters. G. Eliot.

2. Possessed, experienced, or done by two or more persons or things
at the same time; common; joint; as, mutual happiness; a mutual
effort. Burke.
A vast accession of misery and woe from the mutual weeping, and
wailing, and gnashing of teeth. Bentley.

Note: This use of mutual as synonymous with common is inconsistent
with the idea of interchange, or reciprocal relation, which properly
belongs to it; but the word has been so used by many writers of high
authority. The present tendency is toward a careful discrimination.
Mutual, as Johnson will tell us, means something reciprocal, a giving
and taking. How could people have mutual ancestors P. Harrison.
Mutual insurance, agreement among a number of persons to insure each
other against loss, as by fire, death, or accident.
 -- Mutual insurance company, one which does a business of insurance
on the mutual principle, the policy holders sharing losses and
profits pro rata.

Syn.
 -- Reciprocal; interchanged; common.

MUTUALISM
Mu"tu*al*ism, n. (Ethics)

Defn: The doctrine of mutual dependence as the condition of
individual and social welfare. F. Harrison. H. Spencer. Mallock.

MUTUALITY
Mu`tu*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mutualité.]

1. The quality of correlation; reciprocation; interchange;
interaction; interdependence.

2. (Law)

Defn: Reciprocity of consideration. Wharton.

MUTUALLY
Mu"tu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a mutual manner.

MUTUARY
Mu"tu*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. mutuarius mutual.See Mutuation.] (Law)

Defn: One who borrows personal chattels which are to be consumed by
him, and which he is to return or repay in kind. Bouvier.

MUTUATION
Mu`tu*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. mutuatio, fr. mutuare, mutuari, to borrow,
fr. mutuus. See Mutual.]

Defn: The act of borrowing or exchanging. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

MUTULE
Mu"tule, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. mutulus.] (Arch.)

Defn: A projecting block worked under the corona of the Doric corice,
in the same situation as the modillion of the Corinthian and
Composite orders. See Illust. of Gutta. Oxf. Gloss.

MUX
Mux, n. Etym: [Cf. Mixen.]

Defn: Dirt; filth; muck. [Prov. Eng.] ose.

MUX
Mux, v. t.

Defn: To mix in an unitidy and offensive way; to make a mess of.
[Prov. Eng.; Colloq. U.S.]

MUXY
Mux"y, a.

Defn: Soft; sticky, and dirty. [Prov. Eng.] See Mucky.

MUZARAB
Muz"a*rab, n. Etym: [Sp. mozarabe, fr. Ar. mosta'rib, a name applied
to strange tribes living among the Arabs.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a denomination of Christians formerly living under the
government of the Moors in Spain, and having a liturgy and ritual of
their own. [Written also Mozarab, Mostarab.] Brande & C.

MUZARABIC
Muz`a*rab"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Muzarabs; as, the Muzarabic liturgy.
[Written also Mozarabic.]

MUZZINESS
Muz"zi*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being muzzy.

MUZZLE
Muz"zle, n. Etym: [OE. mosel, OF. musel, F. museau muzzle or snout,
LL. musellus, fr. musus, morsus. See Muse, v. i., and cf. Morsel.]

1. The projecting mouth and nose of a quadruped, as of a horse; a
snout.

2. The mouth of a thing; the end for entrance or discharge; as, the
muzzle of a gun.

3. A fastening or covering (as a band or cage) for the mouth of an
animal, to prevent eating or vicious biting.
With golden muzzles all their mouths were bound Dryden.
Muzzle sight. (Gun.) See Dispart, n., 2.

MUZZLE
Muz"zle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Muzzled; p. pr. & vb. n. Muzzling.]
Etym: [F. museler.]

1. To bind the mouth of; to fasten the mouth of, so as to prevent
biting or eating; hence, figuratively, to bind; to sheathe; to
restrain from speech or action. "My dagger muzzled." Shak.
Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn. Deut.
xxv. 4.

2. To fondle with the closed mouth. [Obs.] L'Estrange.

MUZZLE
Muz"zle, v. i.

Defn: To bring the mouth or muzzle near.
The bear muzzles and smels to him. L'Estrange.

MUZZLE-LOADER
Muz"zle-load`er, n.

Defn: A firearm which receives its charge through the muzzle, as
distinguished from one which is loaded at the breech.

MUZZLE-LOADING
Muz"zle-load`ing, a.

Defn: Receiving its charge through the muzzle; as, a muzzle-loading
rifle.

MUZZY
Muz"zy, a. Etym: [Cf. F. muse.]

Defn: Absent-minded; dazed; muddled; stupid.
The whole company stared at me with a whimsical, muzzy look, like men
whose senses were a little obfuscated by beer rather then wine. W.
Irving.

MY
My, a. & poss. pron. Etym: [OE. mi, fr. min. See Mine, and cf., for
loss of n, A, a., An, a.]

Defn: Of or belonging to me; -- used always attributively; as, my
body; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate; as, the book is
mine. See Mine.

MYA
My"a, n. Etym: [L. mya a kind of mussel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of bivalve mollusks, including the common long, or
soft-shelled, clam.

MYALGIA
My*al"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Pain in the muscles; muscular rheumatism or neuralgia.

MYALL WOOD
My*all" wood`. (Bot.)

Defn: A durable, fragrant, and dark-colored Australian wood, used by
the natives for spears. It is obtained from the small tree Acacia
homolophylla.

MYARIA
My*a"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of bivalve mollusks of which the common clam (Mya)
is the type.

MYCELIUM
My*ce"li*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. my`khs a mushroom.] (Bot.)

Defn: The white threads or filamentous growth from which a mushroom
or fungus is developed; the so-called mushroom spawn.
 -- My*ce"li*al, a.

MYCELOID
Myc"e*loid, a. Etym: [Mycelium + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling mycelium.

MYCETES
My*ce"tes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. mykhth`s a bellower, fr. myka^sqai
to bellow.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of South American monkeys, including the howlers. See
Howler, 2, and Illust.

MYCETOID
Myc"e*toid, Etym: [Gr. my`khs, -htos, a fungus + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling a fungus.

MYCETOZOA
My*ce`to*zo"a, n. pl. [NL.; Gr. , , fungus +  pl. of  an animal.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The Myxomycetes; -- so called by those who regard them as a
class of animals. -- My*ce`to*zo"an (#), a.

MYCODERMA
My`co*der"ma, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. my`khs a fungus + de`rma skin.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: One of the forms in which bacteria group themselves; a more or
less thick layer of motionless but living bacteria, formed by the
bacteria uniting on the surface of the fluid in which they are
developed. This production differs from the zoöloea stage of bacteria
by not having the intermediary mucous substance.

2. A genus of microörganisms of which the acetic ferment (Mycoderma
aceti), which converts alcoholic fluids into vinegar, is a
representative. Cf. Mother.

MYCOLOGIC; MYCOLOGICAL
My`co*log"ic, My`co*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to mycology, or the fungi.

MYCOLOGIST
My*col"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in, or who studies, mycology.

MYCOLOGY
My*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. my`khs fungus + -logy.]

Defn: That branch of botanical science which relates to the musgrooms
and other fungi.

MYCOMELIC
My`co*mel"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (spirious) mucus) + (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid of
the alloxan group, obtained as a honey-yellow powder. Its solutions
have a gelatinous consistency.

MYCOPROTEIN
My`co*pro"te*in, n. Etym: [Gr. (spirious) mucus) + E. protein.]
(Biol.)

Defn: The protoplasmic matter of which bacteria are composed.

MYCOSE
My"cose, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose and obtained from
certain lichens and fungi. Called also trehalose. [Written also
mykose.]

MYCOTHRIX
Myc"o*thrix, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (spurious) mucus) + (Biol.)

Defn: The chain of micrococci formed by the division of the
micrococci in multiplication.

MYDALEINE
My*da"le*ine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A toxic alkaloid (ptomaine) obtained from putrid flesh and from
herring brines. As a poison it is said to execute profuse diarrhoea,
vomiting, and intestinal inflammation. Brieger.

MYDATOXIN
Myd`a*tox"in, n. Etym: [Gr. toxic + in.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous amido acid, C6H13NO2, separated by Brieger from
decaying horseflesh. In physiological action, it is similar to
curare.

MYDAUS
Myd"a*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The teledu.

MYDRIASIS
My*dri"a*sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Physiol. & Med.)

Defn: A long-continued or excessive dilatation of the pupil of the
eye.

MYDRIATIC
Myd`ri*at"ic, a.

Defn: Causing dilatation of the pupil.
 -- n.

Defn: A mydriatic medicine or agent, as belladonna.

MYELENCEPHALA
My`e*len*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Myelencephalon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Vertebrata.

MYELENCEPHALIC
My`e*len`ce*phal"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the myelencephalon; cerebro-spinal.

MYELENCEPHALON
My`e*len*ceph"a*lon, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. encephalon.] (Anat.)
(a) The brain and spinal cord; the cerebro-spinal axis; the neuron.
Sometimes abbreviated to myelencephal.
(b) The metencephalon. Huxley.

MYELENCEPHALOUS
My`e*len*ceph"a*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Myelencephala.

MYELIN
My"e*lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)
(a) A soft white substance constituting the medullary sheats of nerve
fibers, and composed mainly of cholesterin, lecithin, cerebrin,
albumin, and some fat.
(b) One of a group of phosphorized principles occurring in nerve
tissue, both in the brain and nerve fibers.

MYELITIS
My`e*li"tis, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the spinal marrow or its membranes.

MYELOCOELE
My"e*lo*coele`, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The central canal of the spinal cord.

MYELOGENIC
My`e*lo*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Derived from, or pertaining to, the bone marrow.

MYELOID
My"e*loid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling marrow in appearance or consistency; as, a myeloid
tumor.

MYELOIDIN
My`e*loid"in, n. Etym: [Myelin + -oid + -in.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance, present in the protoplasm of the retinal
epithelium cells, and resembling, if not identical with, the
substance (myelin) forming the medullary sheaths of nerve fibers.

MYELON
My"e*lon, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The spinal cord. (Sometimes abbrev. to myel.)

MYELONAL
My"e*lo`nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the myelon; as, the myelonal, or spinal,
nerves.

MYELONEURA
My`e*lo*neu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Vertebrata.

MYELOPLAX
My*el"o*plax, n.; pl. E. Myeloplaxes, L. Myeloplaces. Etym: [NL., fr.
Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the huge multinucleated cells found in the marrow of
bone and occasionally in other parts; a giant cell. See Osteoclast.

MYGALE
Myg"a*le, n. Etym: [L., a field mouse, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of very large hairy spiders having four lungs and only
four spinnerets. They do not spin webs, but usually construct tubes
in the earth, which are often furnished with a trapdoor. The South
American bird spider (Mygale avicularia), and the crab spider, or
matoutou (M. cancerides) are among the largest species. Some of the
species are erroneously called tarantulas, as the Texas tarantula (M.
Hentzii).

MYKISS
My"kiss, n. [Russ. muikize, prob. fr. a native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A salmon (Salmo mykiss, syn. S. purpuratus) marked with black
spots and a red throat, found in most of the rivers from Alaska to
the Colorado River, and in Siberia; -- called also black-spotted
trout, cutthroat trout, and redthroat trout.

MYLODON
Myl"o*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of large slothlike American edentates, allied
to Megatherium.

MYLOHYOID
My`lo*hy"oid, a. Etym: [Gr. hyoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the region of, the lower jaw and the hyoid
apparatus; as, the mylohyoid nerve.

MYNA
My"na, n. Etym: [See Mino bird.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of Asiatic starlings of the genera
Acridotheres, Sturnopastor, Sturnia, Gracula, and allied genera. In
habits they resemble the European starlings, and like them are often
caged and taught to talk. See Hill myna, under Hill, and Mino bird.
[Spelt also mynah.]

MYNCHEN
Myn"chen, n. Etym: [AS. mynecen, fr. munec monk. See Monk.]

Defn: A nun. [Obs.]

MYNCHERY
Myn"cher*y, n.

Defn: A nunnery; -- a term still applied to the ruins of certain
nunneries in England.

MYNHEER
Myn*heer", n. Etym: [D. mijnheer.]

Defn: The Dutch equivalent of Mr. or Sir; hence, a Dutchman.

MYO-
My"o-.

Defn: A combining form of Gr. muscle; as, myograph, myochrome.

MYOCARDITIS
My`o*car*di"tis, n. Etym: [NL. see Myocardium.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the myocardium.

MYOCARDIUM
My`o*car"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The main substance of the muscular wall of the heart inclosed
between the epicardium and endocardium.

MYOCHROME
My"o*chrome, n. Etym: [Myo- + Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A colored albuminous substance in the serum from red-colored
muscles. It is identical with hemoglobin.

MYOCOMMA
My`o*com"ma, n.; pl. L. Myocommata, E. Myocommas. Etym: [NL. See Myo-
, and Comma.] (Anat.)

Defn: A myotome.

MYODYNAMICS
My`o*dy*nam"ics, n. Etym: [Myo- + dynamics.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The department of physiology which deals with the principles of
muscular contraction; the exercise of muscular force or contraction.

MYODYNAMIOMETER
My`o*dy*na`mi*om"e*ter, n.

Defn: A myodynamometer.

MYODYNAMOMETER
My`o*dy`na*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Myo- + E. dynamometer.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the muscular strength of man or of
other animals; a dynamometer. Dunglison.

MYOEPITHELIAL
My`o*ep`i*the"li*al, a. Etym: [Myo- + epithelial.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Derived from epithelial cells and destined to become a part of
the muscular system; -- applied to structural elements in certain
embryonic forms.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the characteristics of both muscle and epithelium; as,
the myoepithelial cells of the hydra.

MYOGALID
My*og"a*lid, n. Etym: [Myo- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Myogalodæ, a family of Insectivora, including the
desman, and allied species.

MYOGRAM
My"o*gram, n. Etym: [Myo- + -gram.] (Physiol.)

Defn: See Muscle curve, under Muscle.

MYOGRAPH
My"o*graph, n. Etym: [Myo- + -graph.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for determining and recording the different
phases, as the intensity, velocity, etc., of a muscular contraction.

MYOGRAPHIC; MYOGRAPHICAL
My`o*graph"ic, My`o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to myography.

MYOGRAPHY
My*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. myographie.]

Defn: The description of muscles, including the study of muscular
contraction by the aid of registering apparatus, as by some form of
myograph; myology.

MYOHAEMATIN
My`o*hæm"a*tin, n. Etym: [Myo- + hæmatin.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A red-colored respiratory pigment found associated with
hemoglobin in the muscle tissue of a large number of animals, both
vertebrate and invertebrate.

MYOID
My"oid, a. Etym: [Myo- + -oid.]

Defn: Composed of, or resembling, muscular fiber.

MYOLEMMA
My`o*lem"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Sarcolemma.

MYOLIN
My"o*lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: The essential material of muscle fibers.

MYOLOGIC; MYOLOGICAL
My`o*log"ic, My`o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to myology.

MYOLOGIST
My*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in myology.

MYOLOGY
My*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Myo- + -logy: cf. F. myologie.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of muscles.

MYOMA
My*o"ma, n. Etym: [NL. See Myo-, and -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A tumor consisting of muscular tissue.

MYOMANCY
My"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by the movements of mice.

MYOMORPH
My"o*morph, n.

Defn: One of the Myomorpha.

MYOMORPHA
My`o*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive group of rodents which includes the rats, mice,
jerboas, and many allied forms.

MYOPATHIA
My`o*pa*thi"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Any affection of the muscles or muscular system.

MYOPATHIC
My`o*path"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to myopathia.

MYOPATHY
My*op"a*thy, n.

Defn: Same as Myopathia.

MYOPE
My"ope, n. Etym: [F., fr. Gr.

Defn: A person having myopy; a myops.

MYOPHAN
My"o*phan, n. Etym: [Myo- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A contractile striated layer found in the bodies and stems of
certain Infusoria.

MYOPIA
My*o"pi*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Myope.] (Med.)

Defn: Nearsightedness; shortsightedness; a condition of the eye in
which the rays from distant object are brought to a focus before they
reach the retina, and hence form an indistinct image; while the rays
from very near objects are normally converged so as to produce a
distinct image. It is corrected by the use of a concave lens.

MYOPIC
My*op"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or affected with, or characterized by, myopia;
nearsighted. Myopic astigmatism, a condition in which the eye is
affected with myopia in one meridian only.

MYOPS
My"ops, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Myope.

MYOPSIS
My*op"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The appearance of muscæ volitantes. See Muscæ volitantes, under
Musca.

MYOPY
My"o*py, n. Etym: [F. myopie.] (Med.)

Defn: Myopia.

MYOSIN
My"o*sin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: An albuminous body present in dead muscle, being formed in the
process of coagulation which takes place in rigor mortis; the clot
formed in the coagulation of muscle plasma. See Muscle plasma, under
Plasma.

Note: Myosin belongs to the group of globulins. It is insoluble in
water, but soluble in dilute solution of salt, and is especially
characterized by being completely precipitated by saturation of its
solutions with salt.

MYOSIS
My*o"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Long-continued contraction of the pupil of the eye.

MYOSITIC
My`o*sit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Myotic.

MYOSITIS
My`o*si"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the muscles.

MYOSOTIS
My`o*so"tis, n. Etym: [NL.; Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants. See Mouse-ear.

MYOTIC
My*ot"ic, a. Etym: [See Myosis.] (Med.)

Defn: Producing myosis, or contraction of the pupil of the eye, as
opium, calabar bean, etc.
 -- n.

Defn: A myotic agent.

MYOTOME
My"o*tome, n. Etym: [See Myotomy.] (Anat.)
(a) A muscular segment; one of the zones into which the muscles of
the trunk, especially in fishes, are divided; a myocomma.
(b) One of the embryonic muscular segments arising from the
protovertebræ; also, one of the protovertebræ themselves.
(c) The muscular system of one metamere of an articulate.

MYOTOMIC
My`o*tom"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a myotome or myotomes.

MYOTOMY
My*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Myo- + Gr. myotomie.]

Defn: The dissection, or that part of anatomy which treats of the
dissection, of muscles.

MYRCIA
Myr"ci*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large genus of tropical American trees and shrubs, nearly
related to the true myrtles (Myrtus), from which they differ in
having very few seeds in each berry.

MYRIA-
Myr"i*a-. Etym: [Gr. Myriad.]

Defn: A prefix, esp. in the metric system, indicating ten thousand,
ten thousand times; as, myriameter.

MYRIACANTHOUS
Myr`i*a*can"thous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having numerous spines, as certain fishes.

MYRIAD
Myr"i*ad, n. Etym: [Gr. myriade.]

1. The number of ten thousand; ten thousand persons or things.

2. An immense number; a very great many; an indefinitely large
number.

MYRIAD
Myr"i*ad, a.

Defn: Consisting of a very great, but indefinite, number; as, myriad
stars.

MYRIAGRAM; MYRIAGRAMME
Myr"i*a*gram, Myr"i*a*gramme, n. Etym: [F. myriagramme. See Myria-,
and 3d Gram.]

Defn: A metric weight, consisting of ten thousand grams or ten
kilograms. It is equal to 22.046 lbs. avoirdupois.

MYRIALITER; MYRIALITRE
Myr"i*a*li`ter, Myr"i*a*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. myrialitre. See Myria-,
and Liter.]

Defn: A metric measure of capacity, containing ten thousand liters.
It is equal to 2641.7 wine gallons.

MYRIAMETER; MYRIAMETRE
Myr"i*a*me`ter, Myr"i*a*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. myriamètre. See Myria-,
and Meter.]

Defn: A metric measure of length, containing ten thousand meters. It
is equal to 6.2137 miles.

MYRIAPOD
Myr"i*a*pod, n. Etym: [Cf. F. myriapode.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Myriapoda.

MYRIAPODA
Myr`i*ap"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class, or subclass, of arthropods, related to the hexapod
insects, from which they differ in having the body made up of
numerous similar segments, nearly all of which bear true jointed
legs. They have one pair of antennæ, three pairs of mouth organs, and
numerous trachaæ, similar to those of true insects. The larvæ, when
first hatched, often have but three pairs of legs. See Centiped,
Galleyworm, Milliped.

Note: The existing Myriapoda are divided into three orders:
Chilopoda, Chilognatha or Diplopoda, and Pauropoda (see these words
in the Vocabulary). Large fossil species (very different from any
living forms) are found in the Carboniferous formation.

MYRIARCH
Myr"i*arch, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A captain or commander of ten thousand men.

MYRIARE
Myr"i*are, n. Etym: [F. See Myria-, and 2d Are.]

Defn: A measure of surface in the metric system containing ten
thousand ares, or one million square meters. It is equal to about
247.1 acres.

MYRICA
My*ri"ca, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A widely dispersed genus of shrubs and trees, usually with
aromatic foliage. It includes the bayberry or wax myrtle, the sweet
gale, and the North American sweet fern, so called.

MYRICIN
Myr"i*cin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. myricine. Prob. so called from a fancied
resemblance to the wax of the bayberry (Myrica).] (Chem.)

Defn: A silky, crystalline, waxy substance, forming the less soluble
part of beeswax, and regarded as a palmitate of a higher alcohol of
the paraffin series; -- called also myricyl alcohol.

MYRICYL
Myr"i*cyl, n. Etym: [Myricin + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical regarded as the essential residue of
myricin; -- called also melissyl.

MYRIOLOGICAL
Myr`i*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to a myriologue.

MYRIOLOGIST
Myr`i*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who composes or sings a myriologue.

MYRIOLOGUE
Myr"i*o*logue, n. Etym: [F. myriologue, myriologie, NGr.

Defn: An extemporaneous funeral song, composed and sung by a woman on
the death of a friend. [Modern Greece]

MYRIOPHYLLOUS
Myr`i*oph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having an indefinitely great or countless number of leaves.

MYRIOPODA
Myr`i*op"o*da, n. pl.

Defn: See Myriapoda.

MYRIORAMA
Myr`i*o*ra"ma, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A picture made up of several smaller pictures, drawn upon
separate pieces in such a manner as to admit of combination in many
different ways, thus producing a great variety of scenes or
landscapes.

MYRIOSCOPE
Myr"i*o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: A form of kaleidoscope.

MYRISTATE
My*ris"tate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of myristic acid.

MYRISTIC
My*ris"tic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the nutmeg (Myristica).
Specifically, designating an acid found in nutmeg oil and otoba fat,
and extracted as a white crystalline waxy substance.

MYRISTIN
My*ris"tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The myristate of glycerin, -- found as a vegetable fat in
nutmeg butter, etc.

MYRISTONE
My*ris"tone, n. Etym: [Myristc + -one.] (Chem.)

Defn: The ketone of myristic acid, obtained as a white crystalline
substance.

MYRMECOPHYTE
Myr"me*co*phyte`, n. [Gr. my`rmhx, my`rmhkos, ant + fyto`n plant.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A plant that affords shelter and food to certain species of
ants which live in symbiotic relations with it. Special adaptations
for this purpose exist; thus, Acacia spadicigera has large hollows
thorns, and species of Cecropia have stem cavities. --
Myr`me*co*phyt"ic (#), a.

MYRMICINE
Myr"mi*cine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Myrmica, a genus of ants including the
small house ant (M. molesta), and many others.