

NEREITES
Ne"re*ites, n. pl. (Paleon.)

Defn: Fossil tracks of annelids.

NEREOCYSTIS
Ne`re*o*cys"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Nereid, and Cyst.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of gigantic seaweeds.

Note: Nereocystis Lutkeana, of the North Pacific, has a stem many
fathoms long, terminating in a great vesicle, which is crowned with a
tuft of long leaves. The stem is used by the Alaskans for fishing
lines.

NERFLING
Nerf"ling, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The id.

NERITA
Ne*ri"ta, n. Etym: [L., a sort of sea mussel, gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine gastropods, mostly natives of warm climates.

NERITE
Ner"ite ( or ; 277), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any mollusk of the genus Nerita.

NERITINA
Ner`i*ti"na, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus including numerous species of shells resembling Nerita
in form. They mostly inhabit brackish water, and are often delicately
tinted.

NERKA
Ner"ka, n. [Russ. niarka, prob. fr. native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The most important salmon of Alaska (Oncorhinchus nerka),
ascending in spring most rivers and lakes from Alaska to Oregon,
Washington, and Idaho; --called also red salmon, redfish, blueback,
and sawqui.

NERO
Ne"ro, n.

Defn: A Roman emperor notorius for debauchery and barbarous cruelty;
hence, any profligate and cruel ruler or merciless tyrant.
 -- Ne*ro"ni*an, a.

NERO-ANTICO
Ne`ro-an*ti"co, n. [It.; nero black + antico ancient.] (Art)

Defn: A beautiful black marble found in fragments among Roman ruins,
and usually thought to have come from ancient Laconia.

NEROLI
Ner"o*li, n. Etym: [F. néroli, said to be from the name of an Italian
princess.] (Chem.)

Defn: An essential oil obtained by distillation from the flowers of
the orange. It has a strong odor, and is used in perfumery, etc.
Neroli camphor (Chem.), a white crystalline waxy substance, tasteless
and odorless, obtained from beroli oil; -- called also auradin.

NERRE
Ner"re, adv. & a. Etym: [See Near.]

Defn: Nearer. [Obs.] [Written also neer, ner.] Chaucer. Never the
neer, never the nearer; no nearer. [Obs.]

NERVATE
Nerv"ate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Nerved.

NERVATION
Ner*va"tion, n.

Defn: The arrangement of nerves and veins, especially those of
leaves; neuration.
The outlines of the fronds of ferns, and their nervation, are frail
characters if employed alone for the determination of existing
genera. J. D. Hooker.

NERVE
Nerve, n. Etym: [OE. nerfe, F. nerf, L. nervus, akin to Gr. needle.
Cf. Neuralgia.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the whitish and elastic bundles of fibers, with the
accompanying tissues, which transmit nervous impulses between nerve
centers and various parts of the animal body.

Note: An ordinary nerve is made up of several bundles of nerve
fibers, each bundle inclosed in a special sheath (the perineurium)
and all bound together in a connective tissue sheath and framework
(the epineurium) containing blood vessels and lymphatics.

2. A sinew or a tendon. Pope.

3. Physical force or steadiness; muscular power and control;
constitutional vigor.
he led me on to mightiest deeds, Above the nerve of mortal arm.
Milton.

4. Steadiness and firmness of mind; self-command in personal danger,
or under suffering; unshaken courage and endurance; coolness; pluck;
resolution.

5. Audacity; assurance. [Slang]

6. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the principal fibrovascular bundles or ribs of a leaf,
especially when these extend straight from the base or the midrib of
the leaf.

7. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the nervures, or veins, in the wings of insects. Nerve
cell (Anat.), one of the nucleated cells with which nerve fibers are
connected; a ganglion cell.
 -- Nerve fiber (Anat.), one of the fibers of which nerves are made
up. These fibers are either medullated or nonmedullated. in both
kinds the essential part is the translucent threadlike axis cylinder
which is continuous the whole length of the fiber.
 -- Nerve stretching (Med.), the operation of stretching a nerve in
order to remedy diseases such as tetanus, which are supposed to be
influenced by the condition of the nerve or its connections.

NERVE
Nerve, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nerved; p. pr. & vb. n. Nerving.]

Defn: To give strength or vigor to; to supply with force; as, fear
nerved his arm.

NERVED
Nerved, a.

1. Having nerves of a special character; as, weak-nerved.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having nerves, or simple and parallel ribs or veins. Gray.

NERVELESS
Nerve"less, a.

1. Destitute of nerves.

2. Destitute of strength or of courage; wanting vigor; weak;
powerless.
A kingless people for a nerveless state. Byron.
Awaking, all nerveless, from an ugly dream. Hawthorne.

NERVELESSNESS
Nerve"less*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being nerveless.

NERVE-SHAKEN
Nerve"-shak`en, a.

Defn: Affected by a tremor, or by a nervous disease; weakened;
overcome by some violent influence or sensation; shoked.

NERVIMOTION
Ner`vi*mo"tion, n. Etym: [Nerve + motion.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The movement caused in the sensory organs by external agents
and transmitted to the muscles by the nerves. Dunglison.

NERVIMOTOR
Ner`vi*mo"tor, n. Etym: [Nerve + motor.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Any agent capable of causing nervimotion. Dunglison.

NERVINE
Nerv"ine a. Etym: [L. nervinus made of sinews: cf.F. nervin. See
Nerve.] (Med.)

Defn: Having the quality of acting upon or affecting the nerves;
quieting nervous excitement.
 -- n.

Defn: A nervine agent.

NERVOMUSCULAR
Ner`vo*mus"cu*lar, a. Etym: [Nerve + muscular.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to both nerves and muscles; of the nature of
nerves and muscles; as, nervomuscular energy.

NERVOSE
Ner*vose", a. Etym: [See Nervous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Nerved.

NERVOSITY
Ner*vos"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. nervositas strength.]

Defn: Nervousness. [R.]

NERVOUS
Nerv"ous, a. Etym: [L. nervosus sinewy, vigorous: cf. F. nerveux. See
Nerve.]

1. possessing nerve; sinewy; strong; vigorous. "Nervous arms." Pope.

2. Possessing or manifesting vigor of mind; characterized by strength
in sentiment or style; forcible; spirited; as, a nervous writer.

3. Of or pertaining to the nerves; seated in the nerves; as, nervous
excitement; a nervous fever.

4. Having the nerves weak, diseased, or easily excited; subject to,
or suffering from, undue excitement of the nerves; easily agitated or
annoyed.
Poor, weak, nervous creatures. Cheyne.

5. Sensitive; excitable; timid.
Our aristocratic class does not firmly protest against the unfair
treatment of Irish Catholics, because it is nervous about the land.
M. Arnold.
Nervous fever (Med.), a low form of fever characterized by great
disturbance of the nervous system, as evinced by delirium, or stupor,
disordered sensibility, etc.
 -- Nervous system (Anat.), the specialized coördinating apparatus
which endows animals with sensation and volition. In vertebrates it
is often divided into three systems: the central, brain and spinal
cord; the peripheral, cranial and spinal nerves; and the sympathetic.
See Brain, Nerve, Spinal cord, under Spinal, and Sympathetic system,
under Sympathetic, and Illust. in Appendix.
 -- Nervous temperament, a condition of body characterized by a
general predominance of mental manifestations. Mayne.

NERVOUSLY
Nerv"ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a nervous manner.

NERVOUSNESS
Nerv"ous*ness, n.

Defn: State or quality of being nervous.

NERVURE
Nerv"ure, n. Etym: [F. See Nerve.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the nerves of leaves.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the chitinous supports, or veins, in the wings of
incests.

NERVY
Nerv"y, a. [Compar. Nervier; superl. - iest.]

Defn: Strong; sinewy. "His nervy knees." Keats.

NESCIENCE
Nes"cience, n. Etym: [L. nescientia, fr. nesciens, p.pr. of nescire
not to know; ne not + scire to know.]

Defn: Want of knowledge; ignorance; agnosticism.
God fetched it about for me, in that absence and nescience of mine.
Bp. Hall.

NESE
Nese, n.

Defn: Nose. [Obs.] Piers plowman.

NESH
Nesh, a. Etym: [AS. hnesc, hnæsc, akin to Goth. hnasqus.]

Defn: Soft; tender; delicate. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

NESS
Ness, n. Etym: [AS. næs, ns; akin to Icel. nes, Sw. näs, Dan. næs,
and E. nose. sq. root 261. See Nose.]

Defn: A promontory; a cape; a headland. Hakluyt.

Note: Ness is frequently used as a suffix in the names of places and
promontories; as, Sheerness.

-NESS
-ness (. Etym: [AS. -ness, -nyss, -nys; akin to OS. -nissi, nussi, D.
-nis, OHG. -nissa, -nassi, -nussi, G. -nis, -niss, Goth. -inasus.]

Defn: A suffix used to form abstract nouns expressive of quality or
state; as, goodness, greatness.

NESSLERIZE
Ness"ler*ize, v. t. Etym: [From Nessler, the chemist.] (Chem.)

Defn: To treat or test, as a liquid, with a solution of mercuric
iodide in potassium iodide and potassium hydroxide, which is called
Nessler's solution or Nessler's test, and is used to detect the
presence of ammonia.

NEST
Nest, n. Etym: [AS. nest; akin to D. & G. nest, Sw. näste, L. nidus,
for nisdus, Skr. ni resting place, nest; cf. Lith. lizdas, Arm. neiz,
Gael. & Ir. nead. Prob. from the particle ni down, Skr. ni + the root
of E. sit, and thus orig., a place to sit down in. sq. root 264. See
Nether, and Sit, and cf. Eyas, Nidification, Nye.]

1. The bed or receptacle prepared by a fowl for holding her eggs and
for hatching and rearing her young.
The birds of the air have nests. Matt. viii. 20.

2. Hence: the place in which the eggs of other animals, as insects,
turtles, etc., are laid and hatched; a snug place in which young
animals are reared. Bentley.

3. A snug, comfortable, or cozy residence or situation; a retreat, or
place of habitual resort; hence, those who occupy a nest, frequent a
haunt, or are associated in the same pursuit; as, a nest of traitors;
a nest of bugs.
A little cottage, like some poor man's nest. Spenser.

4. (Geol.)

Defn: An aggregated mass of any ore or mineral, in an isolated state,
within a rock.

5. A collection of boxes, cases, or the like, of graduated size, each
put within the one next larger.

6. (Mech.)

Defn: A compact group of pulleys, gears, springs, etc., working
together or collectively. Nest egg, an egg left in the nest to
prevent the hen from forsaking it, and to induce her to lay more in
the same place; hence, figuratively, something laid up as the
beginning of a fund or collection. Hudibras.

NEST
Nest, v. i.

Defn: To build and occupy a nest.
The king of birds nested within his leaves. Howell.

NEST
Nest, v. t.

Defn: To put into a nest; to form a nest for.
From him who nested himself into the chief power. South.

NESTFUL
Nest"ful, n.; pl. Nestfuls (.

Defn: As much or many as will fill a nest.

NESTLE
Nes"tle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Nestled; p. pr. & vb. n. Nestling.]
Etym: [AS. nestlian.]

1. To make and occupy a nest; to nest. [Obs.]
The kingfisher ... nestles in hollow banks. L'Estrange.

2. To lie close and snug, as a bird in her nest; to cuddle up; to
settle, as in a nest; to harbor; to take shelter.
Their purpose was to fortify in some strong place of the wild
country, and there nestle till succors came. Bacon.

3. To move about in one's place, like a bird when shaping the
interior of her nest or a young bird getting close to the parent; as,
a child nestles.

NESTLE
Nes"tle, v. t.

Defn: To house, as in a nest.

2. To cherish, as a bird her young.

NESTLING
Nes"tling. n.

1. A young bird which has not abandoned the nest. Piers Plowman.

2. A nest; a receptacle. [Obs.] Bacon.

NESTLING
Nes"tling, a.

Defn: Newly hatched; being yet in the nest.

NESTOR
Nes"tor, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of parrots with gray heads. of New Zeland and papua,
allied to the cockatoos. See Kaka.

NESTORIAN
Nes*to"ri*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: An adherent of Nestorius, patriarch of Constantinople to the
fifth century, who has condemned as a heretic for maintaining that
the divine and the human natures were not merged into one nature in
Christ (who was God in man), and, hence, that it was improper to call
Mary the mother of Christ; also, one of the sect established by the
followers of Nestorius in Persia, india, and other Oriental
countries, and still in existence. opposed to Ant: Eutychian.

NESTORIAN
Nes*to"ri*an, a.

1. Of or relating to the Nestorians.

2. relating to, or resembling, Nestor, the aged warior and counselor
mentioned by Homer; hence, wise; experienced; aged; as, Nestorian
caution.

NESTORIANISM
Nes*to"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines of the nestorian Christians, or of Nestorius.

NET
Net, n. Etym: [AS. net; akin to D. net, OS. net, netti, OHG. nezzi,
G. netz, Icel. & Dan. net, Sw. nät, Goth. nati; of uncertain origin.]

1. A fabric of twine, thread, or the like, wrought or woven into
meshes, and used for catching fish, birds, butterflies, etc.

2. Anything designed or fitted to entrap or catch; a snare; any
device for catching and holding.
A man that flattereth his neighbor spreadeth a net for his feet.
Prov. xxix. 5.
In the church's net there are fishes good or bad. Jer. Taylor.

3. Anything wrought or woven in meshes; as, a net for the hair; a
mosquito net; a tennis net.

4. (Geom.)

Defn: A figure made up of a large number of straight lines or curves,
which are connected at certain points and related to each other by
some specified law.

NET
Net, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Netted; p. pr. & vb. n. Netting.]

1. To make into a net; to make n the style of network; as, to net
silk.

2. To take in a net; to capture by stratagem or wile.
And now I am here, netted and in the toils. Sir W. Scott.

3. To inclose or cover with a net; as, to net a tree.

NET
Net, v. i.

Defn: To form network or netting; to knit.

NET
Net, a. Etym: [F. See Neat clean.]

1. Without spot; pure; shining. [Obs.]
Her breast all naked as net ivory. Spenser.

2. Free from extraneous substances; pure; unadulterated; neat; as,
net wine, etc. [R.]

3. Not including superfluous, incidental, or foreign matter, as
boxes, coverings, wraps, etc.; free from charges, deductions, etc;
as, net profit; net income; net weight, etc. [Less properly written
nett.] Net tonnage (Naut.), the tonnage of a vessel after a deduction
from the gross tonnage has been made, to allow space for crew,
machinery, etc.

NET
Net, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Netted; p. pr. & vb. n. Netting.]

Defn: To produce or gain as clear profit; as, he netted a thousand
dollars by the operation.

NE TEMERE
Ne Te"me*re. [So named from L. ne not + temere rashly, the first two
words in the decree.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A decree of the Congregation of the Council declaring invalid
[so far as the laws of the Roman Catholic Church are concerned] any
marriage of a Roman Catholic, or of a person who has ever been a
Roman Catholic, if not contracted before a duty qualified priest (or
the bishop of the diocese) and at least two witnesses. The decree was
issued Aug. 2, 1907, and took effect on Easter Apr. 19, 1908. The
decree by its terms does not affect mixed marriages (those between
Roman Catholics and persons of another faith) in Germany.

NETFISH
Net"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An astrophyton.

NETHER
Neth"er, a. Etym: [OE. nethere, neithere, AS. ni, fr. the adv. ni
downward; akin to neo below, beneath, D. neder down, G. nieder, Sw.
nedre below, nether, a. & adv., and also to Skr. ni down. sq.
root201. Cf. Beneath.]

Defn: Situated down or below; lying beneath, or in the lower part;
having a lower position; belonging to the region below; lower; under;
-- opposed to upper.
'Twixt upper, nether, and surrounding fires. Milton.
This darksome nether world her light Doth dim with horror and
deformity. Spenser.
All my nether shape thus grew transformed. Milton.

NETHERMORE
Neth"er*more`, a.

Defn: Lower, nether. [Obs.] Holland.

NETHERMOST
Neth"er*most`, a. Etym: [AS. ni(Nether, and cf. Aftermost.]

Defn: Lowest; as, the nethermost abyss. Milton.

NETHINIM
Neth"i*nim, n. pl. Etym: [Heb., pl. of nathin given, granted, a slave
of the temple, fr. nathan to give.] (jewish Antiq.)

Defn: Servants of the priests and Levites in the menial services
about the tabernacle and temple.

NETIFY
Net"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [Net, a. + -fy.]

Defn: To render neat; to clean; to put in order. [R.] Chapman.

NETSUKE
Net"su*ke, n. [Jap.]

Defn: In Japanese costume and decorative art, a small object carved
in wood, ivory, bone, or horn, or wrought in metal, and pierced with
holes for cords by which it is connected, for convenience, with the
inro, the smoking pouch (tabako-ire), and similar objects carried in
the girdle. It is now much used on purses sold in Europe and America.

NETTING
Net"ting, n. Etym: [From Net, n.]

1. The act or process of making nets or network, or of forming
meshes, as for fancywork, fishing nets, etc.

2. A piece of network; any fabric, made of cords, threads, wires, or
the like, crossing one another with open spaces between.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A network of ropes used for various purposes, as for holding
the hammocks when not in use, also for stowing sails, and for
hoisting from the gunwale to the rigging to hinder an enemy from
boarding. Totten. Netting needle, a kind of slender shuttle used in
netting. See Needle, n., 3.

NETTING
Net"ting, n.

Defn: Urine. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

NETTLE
Net"tle, n. Etym: [AS. netele; akin to D. netel, G. nessel, OHG.
nezzïla, nazza, Dan. nelde, nälde, Sw. nässla; cf, Lith. notere.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Urtica, covered with minute sharp hairs
containing a poison that produces a stinging sensation. Urtica
gracitis is common in the Northern, and U. chamædryoides in the
Southern, United States. the common European species, U. urens and U.
dioica, are also found in the Eastern united States. U. pilulifera is
the Roman nettle of England.

Note: The term nettle has been given to many plants related to, or to
some way resembling, the true nettle; as: Australian nettle, a
stinging tree or shrub of the genus Laportea (as L. gigas and L.
moroides); -- also called nettle tree.
 -- Bee nettle, Hemp nettle, a species of Galeopsis. See under Hemp.
 -- Blind nettle, Dead nettle, a harmless species of Lamium.
 -- False nettle (Bæhmeria cylindrica), a plant common in the United
States, and related to the true nettles.
 -- Hedge nettle, a species of Stachys. See under Hedge.
 -- Horse nettle (Solanum Carolinense). See under Horse.
 -- nettle tree. (a) Same as Hackberry. (b) See Australian nettle
(above).
 -- Spurge nettle, a stinging American herb of the Spurge family
(Jatropha urens).
 -- Wood nettle, a plant (Laportea Canadensis) which stings severely,
and is related to the true nettles. Nettle cloth, a kind of thick
cotton stuff, japanned, and used as a substitute for leather for
various purposes.
 -- Nettle rash (Med.), an eruptive disease resembling the effects of
whipping with nettles.
 -- Sea nettle (Zoöl.), a medusa.

NETTLE
Net"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nettled; p. pr. & vb. n. Nettling.]

Defn: To fret or sting; to irritate or vex; to cause to experience
sensations of displeasure or uneasiness not amounting to violent
anger.
The princes were so nettled at the scandal of this affront, that
every man took it to himself. L'Estrange.

NETTLEBIRD
Net"tle*bird`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: the European whitethroat. [Prov. Eng.]

NETTLER
Net"tler, n.

Defn: One who nettles. [R.] Milton.

NETTLES
Net"tles, n. pl. Etym: [See Knittle.] (Naut.)
(a) The halves of yarns in the unlaid end of a rope twisted for
pointing or grafting.
(b) Small lines used to sling hammocks under the deck beams.
(c) Reef points.

NETTLING
Net"tling, n. (Rope Making)
(a) A process (resembling splicing) by which two ropes are jointed
end so as to form one rope.
(b) The process of tying together the ends of yarns in pairs, to
prevent tangling.

NETTLING
Net"tling, p. pr. & a.

Defn: Stinging; irritating. Nettling cell (Zoöl.), a lasso cell. See
under Lasso.

NETTY
Net"ty, a.

Defn: Like a net, or network; netted. [R.]

NET-VEINED
Net"-veined`, a.

Defn: Having veins, or nerves, reticulated or netted; as, a net-
veined wing or leaf.

NETWORK
Net"work`, n.

1. A fabric of threads, cords, or wires crossing each other at
certain intervals, and knotted or secured at the crossings, thus
leaving spaces or meshes between them.

2. Any system of lines or channels interlacing or crossing like the
fabric of a net; as, a network of veins; a network of railroads.

NEUFCHATEL
Neuf`châ`tel", n.

Defn: A kind of soft sweet-milk cheese; -- so called from Neufchâtel-
en-Bray in France.

NEURAD
Neu"rad, adv. Etym: [Gr. ad to.] (Anat.)

Defn: Toward the neural side; -- opposed to hæmad.

NEURAL
Neu"ral, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat. & Zoöl.)

Defn: relating to the nerves or nervous system; taining to, situated
in the region of, or on the side with, the neural, or cerebro-spinal,
axis; -- opposed to hemal. As applied to vertebrates, neural is the
same as dorsal; as applied to invertebrates it is usually the same as
ventral. Cf. Hemal. Neural arch (Anat.), the cartilaginous or bony
arch on the dorsal side of the centrum of the vertebra in a segment
of the spinal skeleton, usually inclosing a segment of the spinal
cord.

NEURALGIA
Neu*ral"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., from gr. nerve.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease, the chief symptom of which is a very acute pain,
exacerbating or intermitting, which follows the course of a nervous
branch, extends to its ramifications, and seems therefore to be
seated in the nerve. It seems to be independent of any structural
lesion. Dunglison.

NEURALGIC
Neu*ral"gic, a.

Defn: of or pertaining to, or having the character of, neuralgia; as,
a neuralgic headache.

NEURALGY
Neu*ral"gy, n.

Defn: Neuralgia.

NEURAPOPHYSIAL
Neu*rap`o*phys"i*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: of or pertaining to a neurapophysis.

NEURAPOPHYSIS
Neu`ra*poph"y*sis, n.; pl. Neurapophyses. Etym: [NL. See Neuro-, and
Apophysis.] (Anat.)
(a) One of the two lateral processes or elements which form the
neural arch.
(b) The dorsal process of the neural arch; neural spine; spinous
process.

NEURASTHENIA
Neu*ras`the*ni"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A condition of nervous debility supposed to be dependent upon
impairment in the functions of the spinal cord.

NEURATION
Neu*ra"tion, n. (Biol.)

Defn: The arrangement or distribution of nerves, as in the leaves of
a plant or the wings of an insect; nervation.

NEURAXIS
Neu*rax"is, n. Etym: [Neuro- + axis.] (Anat.)

Defn: See Axis cylinder, under Axis.

NEURENTERIC
Neu`ren*ter"ic, a. Etym: [Neuro- + enteric.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to both the neuron and the enteron; as, the
neurenteric canal, which, in embroys of many vertebrates, connects
the medullary tube and the primitive intestine. See Illust. of
Ectoderm.

NEURIDIN
Neu"ri*din, n. Etym: [From Neurine.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: a nontoxic base, C5H14N2, found in the putrescent matters of
flesh, fish, decaying cheese, etc.

NEURILEMMA
Neu`ri*lem"ma, n. Etym: [NL., from gr. (Anat.)
(a) The delicate outer sheath of a nerve fiber; the primitive sheath.
(b) The perineurium.

NEURILITY
Neu*ril"i*ty, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: The special properties and functions of the nerves; that
capacity for transmitting a stimulus which belongs to nerves. G. H.
Lewes.

NEURINE
Neu"rine ( or ), n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous organic base (a ptomaine) formed in the
decomposition of protagon with boiling baryta water, and in the
putrefraction of proteid matter. It was for a long time considered
identical with choline, a crystalline body originally obtained from
bile. Chemically, however, choline is oxyethyl-trimethyl-ammonium
hydroxide, while neurine is vinyl-trimethyl-ammonium hydroxide.
[Written also neurin.]

NEURISM
Neu"rism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Nerve force. See Vital force, under Vital.

NEURITIS
Neu*ri"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of a nerve.

NEURO-
Neu"ro- (. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A combining denoting a nerve, of or pertaining to a nerve or
the nervous system.

NEURO-CENTRAL
Neu`ro-cen"tral, a. Etym: [Neuro- + central.] (Anat.)

Defn: Between the neural arch and the centrum of a vertebra; as, the
neurocentral suture. Huxley.

NEUROCHORD; NEUROCHORDAL
Neu"ro*chord, n., Neu`ro*chor"dal (, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Neurocord.

NEUROCITY
Neu*roc"i*ty, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: Nerve force.

NEUROCOELE; NEUROCELE
Neu"ro*coele, Neu"ro*cele, n. Etym: [Neuro- + Ge. (Anat.)

Defn: The central canal and ventricles of the spinal cord and brain;
the myelencephalic cavity.

NEUROCORD
Neu"ro*cord, n. Etym: [Neuro- + cord.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cordlike organ composed of elastic fibers situated above the
ventral nervous cord of annelids, like the earthworm.
 -- Neu`ro*cor"dal, a.

NEURO-EPIDERMAL
Neu`ro-ep`i*der"mal, a. Etym: [Neuro- + epidermal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or giving rise to, the central nervous system
and epiderms; as, the neuroepidermal, or epiblastic, layer of the
blastoderm.

NEUROGLIA
Neu*rog"li*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The delicate connective tissue framework which supports the
nervous matter and blood vessels of the brain and spinal cord.

NEUROGRAPHY
Neu*rog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Neuro- + -graphy.] (Anat.)

Defn: A description of the nerves. Dunglison.

NEUROKERATIN
Neu`ro*ker"a*tin, n. Etym: [Neuro- + keratin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance, resembling keratin, present in nerve tissue, as in
the sheath of the axis cylinder of medullated nerve fibers. Like
keratin it resists the action of most chemical agents, and by
decomposition with sulphuric acid yields leucin and tyrosin.

NEUROLOGICAL
Neu`ro*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to neurolgy.

NEUROLOGIST
Neu*rol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in neurology; also, one skilled in the
treatment of nervous diseases.

NEUROLOGY
Neu*rol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Neuro- + -logy.]

Defn: The branch of science which treats of the nervous system.

NEUROMA
Neu*ro"ma, n. Etym: [NL. See Neuro-, and -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A tumor developed on, or connected with, a nerve, esp. one
consisting of new-formed nerve fibers.

NEUROMERE
Neu"ro*mere, n. Etym: [Neuro- + -mere.] (Anat.)

Defn: A metameric segment of the cerebro-spinal nervous system.

NEUROMUSCULAR
Neu`ro*mus"cu*lar, a. Etym: [Neuro- + muscular.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Nervomuscular.

NEURON
Neu"ron, n.; pl. Neura. Etym: [NL., from Gr. ney^ron nerve.] (Anat.)

Defn: The brain and spinal cord; the cerebro-spinal axis;
myelencephalon. B. G. Wilder.

NEUROPATHIC
Neu`ro*path"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to neuropathy; of the nature of, or suffering
from, nervous disease.

NEUROPATHY
Neu*rop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Neuro- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An affection of the nervous system or of a nerve.

NEUROPOD
Neu"ro*pod, n. Etym: [Neuro- + -pod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A neuropodous animal. G. Rolleston.

NEUROPODIUM
Neu`ro*po"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ventral lobe or branch of a parapodium.

NEUROPODOUS
Neu*rop"o*dous, a. Etym: [Neuro- + -pod + -ous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the limbs on, or directed toward, the neural side, as in
most invertebrates; -- opposed to Ant: hæmapodous. G. Rolleston.

NEUROPORE
Neu"ro*pore, n. Etym: [Neuro- + pore.] (Anat.)

Defn: An opening at either end of the embryonic neural canal.

NEUROPTER
Neu*rop"ter, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Neuroptera.

NEUROPTERA
Neu*rop"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [Nl., fr. gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of hexapod insects having two pairs of large,
membranous, net-veined wings. The mouth organs are adapted for
chewing. They feed upon other insects, and undergo a complete
metamorphosis. The ant-lion, hellgamite, and lacewing fly are
examples. Formerly, the name was given to a much more extensive
group, including the true Neuroptera and the Pseudoneuroptera.

NEUROPTERAL
Neurop"ter*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Neuroptera.

NEUROPTERAN
Neu*rop"ter*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A neuropter.

NEUROPTERIS
Neu*rop"te*ris, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extensive genus of fossil ferns, of which species have been
found from the Devonian to the Triassic formation.

NEUROPTEROUS
Neu*rop"ter*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Neuropteral.

NEUROSENSIFEROUS
Neu`ro*sen*sif"er*ous, a. Etym: [neuro- + sensiferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or forming, both nerves and sense organs.

NEUROSIS
Neu*ro"sis, n.; pl. Neuroses. Etym: [NL., fr. gr. (Med.)

Defn: A functional nervous affection or disease, that is, a disease
of the nerves without any appreciable change of nerve structure.

NEUROSKELETAL
Neu`ro*skel"e*tal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the neuroskeleton. [R.] Owen.

NEUROSKELETON
Neu`ro*skel"e*ton, n. Etym: [Neuro- + skeleton.] (Anat.)

Defn: The deep-seated parts of the vertebrate skeleton which are
relation with the nervous axis and locomation. Owen.

NEUROSPAST
Neu"ro*spast, n. Etym: [L. neurospaston, Gr.

Defn: A puppet. [R.] Dr. H. More.

NEUROTIC
Neu*rot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to the nerves; seated in the nerves; nervous; as,
a neurotic disease.

2. Uself in disorders of, or affecting, the nerves.

NEUROTIC
Neu*rot"ic, n.

1. A disease seated in the nerves.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Any toxic agent whose action is mainly directed to the great
nerve centers.

Note: Neurotic as a class include all those poisons whose mains
action is upon the brain and spinal cord. They may be divided three
orders: (a) Cerebral neurotics, or those which affect the brain only.
(b) Spinal neurotics, or tetanics, those which affect the spinal
cord. (c) Cerebro-spinal neurotics, or those which affect both brain
and spinal cord.

NEUROTOME
Neu"ro*tome, n. Etym: [See Neurotomy.]

1. An instrument for cutting or dissecting nerves.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A neuromere.

NEUROTOMICAL
Neu`ro*tom"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to neurotomy.

NEUROTOMIST
Neu*rot"o*mist, n.

Defn: One who skilled in or practices neurotomy.

NEUROTOMY
Neu*rot"o*my, n. Etym: [Neuro- + Gr.

1. The dissection, or anatomy, of the nervous system.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The division of a nerve, for the relief of neuralgia, or for
other purposes. Dunglison.

NEURULA
Neu"ru*la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An embryo or certain invertebrates in the stage when the
primitive band is first developed.

NEUTER
Neu"ter, a. Etym: [L., fr. ne not + uter whether; akin to E. whether.
See No, and Whether, and cf. Neither.]

1. Neither the one thing nor the other; on neither side; impartial;
neutral. [Archaic]
In all our undertakings God will be either our friend or our enemy;
for Providence never stands neuter. South.

2. (Gram.)
(a) Having a form belonging more especially to words which are not
appellations of males or females; expressing or designating that
which is of neither sex; as, a neuter noun; a neuter termination; the
neuter gender.
(b) Intransitive; as, a neuter verb.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Having no generative organs, or imperfectly developed ones;
sexless. See Neuter, n., 3.

NEUTER
Neu"ter, n.

1. A person who takes no part in a contest; one who is either
indifferent to a cause or forbears to interfere; a neutral.
The world's no neuter; it will wound or save. Young.

2. (Gram.)
(a) A noun of the neuter gender; any one of those words which have
the terminations usually found in neuter words.
(b) An intransitive verb.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: An organism, either vegetable or animal, which at its maturity
has no generative organs, or but imperfectly developed ones, as a
plant without stamens or pistils, as the garden Hydrangea; esp., one
of the imperfectly developed females of certain social insects, as of
the ant and the common honeybee, which perform the labors of the
community, and are called workers.

NEUTRAL
Neu"tral, a. Etym: [L. neutralis, fr. neuter. See Neuter.]

1. Not engaged on either side; not taking part with or assisting
either of two or more contending parties; neuter; indifferent.
The heart can not possibly remain neutral, but constantly takes part
one way or the other. Shaftesbury.

2. Neither good nor bad; of medium quality; middling; not decided or
pronounced.
Some things good, and some things ill, do seem, And neutral some, in
her fantastic eye. Sir J. Davies.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Neuter. See Neuter, a., 3.

4. (Chem.)

Defn: Having neither acid nor basic properties; unable to turn red
litmus blue or blue litmus red; -- said of certain salts or other
compounds. Contrasted with Ant: acid, and Ant: alkaline. Neutral
axis, Neutral surface (Mech.), that line or plane, in a beam under
transverse pressure, at which the fibers are neither stretched nor
compressed, or where the longitudinal stress is zero. See Axis.
 -- Neutral equilibrium (Mech.), the kind of equilibrium of a body so
placed that when moved slighty it neither tends to return to its
former position not depart more widely from it, as a perfect sphere
or cylinder on a horizontal plane.
 -- Neutral salt (Chem.), a salt formed by the complete replacement
of the hydrogen in an acid or base; in the former case by a positive
or basic, in the latter by a negative or acid, element or radical.
 -- Neutral tint, a bluish gray pigment, used in water colors, made
by mixing indigo or other blue some warm color. the shades vary
greatly.
 -- Neutral vowel, the vowel element having an obscure and indefinite
quality, such as is commonly taken by the vowel in many unaccented
syllables. It is regarded by some as identical with the û in up, and
is called also the natural vowel, as unformed by art and effort. See
Guide to Pronunciation, § 17.

NEUTRAL
Neu"tral, n.

Defn: A person or a nation that takes no part in a contest between
others; one who is neutral.
The neutral, as far as commerce extends, becomes a party in the war.
R. G. Harper.

NEUTRALIST
Neu"tral*ist, n.

Defn: A neutral; one who professes or practices neutrality. Milman.

NEUTRALITY
Neu*tral"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. neutralité.]

1. The state or quality of being neutral; the condition of being
unengaged in contests between others; state of taking no part on
either side; indifference.
Men who possess a state of neutrality in times of public danger,
desert the interest of their fellow subjects. Addison.

2. Indifference in quality; a state neither very good nor bad. [Obs.]
Donne.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: The quality or state of being neutral. See Neutral, a., 4.

4. (International Law)

Defn: The condition of a nation or government which refrains from
taking part, directly or indirectly, in a war between other powers.

5. Those who are neutral; a combination of neutral powers or states.
Armed neutrality, the condition of a neutral power, in time of war,
which holds itself ready to resist by force any aggression of either
belligerent.

NEUTRALIZATION
Neu`tral*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. neutralisation.]

1. The act or process of neutralizing, or the state of being
neutralized.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process by which an acid and a base are combined in
such proportions that the resulting compound is neutral. See Neutral,
a., 4.

NEUTRALIZE
Neu"tral*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Neutralized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Neutralizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. neutraliser.]

1. To render neutral; to reduce to a state of neutrality.
So here I am neutralized again. Sir W. Scott.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: To render inert or imperceptible the peculiar affinities of, as
a chemical substance; to destroy the effect of; as, to neutralize an
acid with a base.

3. To destroy the peculiar or opposite dispositions of; to reduce to
a state of indifference inefficience; to counteract; as, to
neutralize parties in government; to neutralize efforts, opposition,
etc.
Counter citations that neutralize each other. E. Everett.

NEUTRALIZER
Neu"tral*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, neutralizes; that which destroys,
disguises, or renders inert the peculiar properties of a body.

NEUTRALLY
Neu"tral*ly, adv.

Defn: In a neutral manner; without taking part with either side;
indifferently.

NEUTROPHILE; NEUTROPHIL
Neu"tro*phile, Neu"tro*phil, n. [L. neuter + Gr.  loving.] (Physiol.)

Defn: One of a group of leucocytes whose granules stain only with
neutral dyes. -- Neu"tro*phil"ic (#), a., Neu*troph"i*lous (#), a.

NEUVAINES
Neu`vaines", n. pl. Etym: [F. neuvaine, fr. LL. novena, fr. L. novem.
See Noon.] (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: Prayers offered up for nine successive days.

NEVADITE
Ne*va"dite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A grantitoid variety of rhyolite, common in Nevada.

NEVE
Né`vé", n. Etym: [F., fr. nix, nivis, snow.] (Geol.)

Defn: The upper part of a glacier, above the limit or perpetual snow.
See Galcier.

NEVEN
Nev"en, v. t. Etym: [Icel. nefna.

Defn: To name; to mention; to utter. [Obs.]
As oft I heard my lord them neven. Chaucer.

NEVER
Nev"er, adv. Etym: [AS. n; ne not, no + ever.]

1. Not ever; not at any time; at no time, whether past, present, or
future. Shak.
Death still draws nearer, never seeming near. Pope.

2. In no degree; not in the least; not.
Whosoever has a friend to guide him, may carry his eyes in another
man's head, and yet see never the worse. South.
And he answered him to never a word. Matt. xxvii. 14.

Note: Never is much used in composition with present participles to
form adjectives, as in never-ceasing, never-dying, never-ending,
never-fading, never-failing, etc., retaining its usual signification.
Never a deal, not a bit. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- Never so, as never before; more than at any other time, or in any
other circumstances; especially; particularly; -- now often expressed
or replaced by ever so.
Ask me never so much dower and gift. Gen. xxxiv. 12.
A fear of battery, ... though never so well grounded, is no duress.
Blackstone.

NEVERMORE
Nev"er*more`, adv.

Defn: Never again; at no time hereafter. Testament of Love. Tyndale.
Where springtime of the Hesperides Begins, but endeth nevermore.
Longfellow.

NEVERTHELATER
Nev`er*the*lat"er, adv. or conj.

Defn: Nevertheless. [Obs.]

NEVERTHELESS
Nev`er*the*less", adv. or conj. Etym: [Never + the (see The by that)
+ less.]

Defn: Not the less; notwithstanding; in spite of that; yet.
No chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous;
nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of
righteousness. Heb. xii. 11.

Syn.
 -- However; at least; yet; still. See However.

NEVEW
Nev"ew, n.

Defn: Nephew. [Obs.] haucer.

NEW
New, a. [Compar. Newer; superl. Newest.] Etym: [OE. OE. newe, AS.
niwe, neowe; akin to D. nieuw, OS. niwi, OHG. niuwi, G. neu, Icel. n,
Dan. & Sw. ny, Goth. niujis, Lith. naujas, Russ. novuii, Ir. nua,
nuadh, Gael. nuadh, W. newydd, Armor. nevez, L. novus, gr. nava, and
prob. to E. now. Now, and cf. Announce, Innovate, Neophyte, Novel.]

1. Having existed, or having been made, but a short time; having
originated or occured lately; having recently come into existence, or
into one's possession; not early or long in being; of late origin;
recent; fresh; modern; -- opposed to old, as, a new coat; a new
house; a new book; a new fashion. "Your new wife." Chaucer.

2. Not before seen or known, although existing before; lately
manifested; recently discovered; as, a new metal; a new planet; new
scenes.

3. Newly beginning or recurring; starting anew; now commencing;
different from has been; as, a new year; a new course or direction.

4. As if lately begun or made; having the state or quality of
original freshness; also, changed for the better; renovated; unworn;
untried; unspent; as, rest and travel made him a new man.
Steadfasty purposing to lead a new life. Bk. of Com. Prayer.
Men after long emaciating diets, fat, and almost new. Bacon.

5. Not of ancient extraction, or of a family of ancient descent; not
previously kniwn or famous. Addison.

6. Not habituated; not familiar; unaccustomed.
New to the plow, unpracticed in the trace. Pope.

7. Fresh from anything; newly come.
New from her sickness to that northern air. Dryden.
New birth. See under Birth.
 -- New Church, or New Jerusalem Church, the church holding the
doctrines taught by Emanuel Swedenborg. See Swedenborgian.
 -- New heart (Theol.), a heart or character changed by the power of
God, so as to be governed by new and holy motives.
 -- New land, land ckeared and cultivated for the first time.
 -- New light. (Zoöl.) See Crappie.
 -- New moon. (a) The moon in its first quarter, or when it first
appears after being invisible. (b) The day when the new moon is first
seen; the first day of the lunar month, which was a holy day among
the Jews. 2 Kings iv. 23.
 -- New Red Sandstone (Geol.), an old name for the formation
immediately above the coal measures or strata, now divided into the
Permian and Trias. See Sandstone.
 -- New style. See Style.
 -- New testament. See under Testament.
 -- New world, the land of the Western Hemisphere; -- so called
because not known to the inhabitants of the Eastern Hemisphere until
recent times.

Syn.
 -- Novel; recent; fresh; modern. See Novel.

NEW
New, adv.

Defn: Newly; recently. Chaucer.

Note: New is much used in composition, adverbially, in the sense of
newly, recently, to quality other words, as in new-born, new-formed,
new-found, new-mown. Of new, anew. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NEW
New, v. t. & i.

Defn: To make new; to renew. [Obs.]

NEWBORN
New"born`, a.

Defn: Recently born. Shak.

NEWCOME
New"come`, a.

Defn: Recently come.

NEWCOMER
New"com`er, n.

Defn: One who has lately come.

NEWEL
New"el, n. Etym: [From New. Cf. Novel.]

Defn: A novelty; a new thing. [Obs.] Spenser.

NEWEL
New"el, n. Etym: [OF. nual, F. noyau sone, of fruit, noyau d'escaler
newel, fr. L. nucalis like a nut, fr. nux, nucis, nut. Cf Nowel the
inner wall of a mold, Nucleus..] (Arch.)

Defn: The upright post about which the steps of a circular staircase
wind; hence, in stairs having straight flights, the principal post at
the foot of a staircase, or the secondary ones at the landings. See
Hollow newel, under Hollow.

NEWFANGLE
New"fan`gle, a. Etym: [New + fangle.]

Defn: Eager for novelties; desirous of changing. [Obs.]
So newfangel be they of their meat. Chaucer.

NEWFANGLE
New"fan`gle, v. t.

Defn: To change by introducing novelties. [Obs.]

NEWFANGLED
New"fan`gled, a.

1. Newmade; formed with the affectation of novelty. "A newfangled
nomenclature." Sir W. Hamilton.

2. Disposed to change; inclined to novelties; given to new theories
or fashions. "Newfangled teachers." 1 Tim. vi. (heading). "Newfangled
men." Latimer.

NEWFANGLEDNESS
New"fan`gled*ness, n.

Defn: Affectation of, or fondness for, novelty; vain or affected
fashion or form.

NEWFANGLENESS
New"fan`gle*ness, n. Etym: [OE. newefanglenes. See Fangle.]

Defn: Newfangledness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Proud newfangleness in their apparel. Robynson (More's Utopia).

NEWFANGLIST
New"fan`glist, n.

Defn: One who is eager for novelties or desirous of change. [Obs.]
Tooker.

NEWFANGLY
New"fan`gly, adv.

Defn: In a newfangled manner; with eagerness for novelty. [Obs.] Sir
T. More.

NEWFASHIONED
New`fash"ioned, a.

Defn: Made in a new form, or lately come into fashion.

NEWFOUNDLAND
New"found*land` (, often , n.

1. An island on the coast of British North America, famed for the
fishing grounds in its vicinity.

2. A Newfoundland dog. Tennyson. Newfoundland dog (Zoöl.), a breed of
large dogs, with shaggy hair, which originated in Newfoundland, noted
for intelligence, docility, and swimming powers.

NEWING
New"ing, n. Etym: [From New, v. t.]

Defn: Yeast; barm. [prov. Eng.]

NEWISH
New"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat new; nearly new. Bacon.

NEWLY
New"ly, adv.

1. Lately; recently.
He rubbed it o'er with newly gathered mint. Dryden.

2. Anew; afresh; freshly.
And the refined mind doth newly fashion Into a fairer form. Spenser.

NEWMARKET
New"mar`ket, n. Etym: [From Newmarket, England.]

Defn: A long, closely fitting cloak.

NEW-MODEL
New`-mod"el, v. t.

Defn: To remodel.

NEWNESS
New"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being new; as, the newness of a system;
the newness of a scene; newness of life.

NEWS
News, n Etym: [From New; cf. F. nounelles. News

1. A report of recent occurences; information of something that has
lately taken place, or of something before unknown; fresh tindings;
recent intelligence.
Evil news rides post, while good news baits. Milton.

2. Something strange or newly happened.
It is no news for the weak and poor to be a prey to the strong and
rich. L'Estrange.

3. A bearer of news; a courier; a newspaper. [Obs.]
There cometh a news thither with his horse. Pepys.

NEWS-BOOK
News"-book`, n.

Defn: A newspaper. [Obs.]

NEWSBOY
news"boy`, n.

Defn: A boy who distributes or sells newspaper.

NEWS-LETTER
News"-let`ter, n.

Defn: A circular letter, written or printed for the purpose of
disseminating news. This was the name given to the earliest English
newspapers.

NEWSMAN
News"man, n.; pl. Newsmen (.

1. One who brings news. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. A man who distributes or sells newspapers.

NEWSMONGER
News"mon`ger, n.

Defn: One who deals in news; one who is active in hearing and telling
news.

NEWSPAPER
News"pa`per, n.

Defn: A sheet of paper printed and distributed, at stated intervals,
for conveying intelligence of passing events, advocating opinions,
etc.; a public print that circulates news, advertisements,
proceedings of legislative bodies, public announcements, etc.

NEWSROOM
News"room`, n.

Defn: A room where news is collected and disseminated, or periodicals
sold; a reading room supplied with newspapers, magazines, etc.

NEWS-VNDER
News"-vnd`er, n.

Defn: A seller of newspapers.

NEWS-WRITER
News"-writ`er, n.

Defn: One who gathered news for, and wrote, news-letters. Macaulay.

NEWSY
News"y, a.

Defn: Full of news; abounding in information as to current events.
[Colloq.]

NEWT
Newt, n. Etym: [OE. ewt, evete, AS. efete, with n prefixed, an ewt
being understood as a newt. Cf. Eft.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small aquatic salamanders. The
common British species are the crested newt (Triton cristatus) and
the smooth newt (Lophinus punctatus). In America, Diemictylus
viridescens is one of the most abundant species.

NEW THOUGHT
New Thought.

Defn: Any form of belief in mental healing other than (1) Christian
Science and (2) hypnotism or psychotherapy. Its central principle is
affirmative thought, or suggestion, employed with the conviction that
man produces changes in his health, his finances, and his life by the
adoption of a favorable mental attitude. AS a therapeutic doctrine it
stands for silent and absent mental treatment, and the theory that
all diseases are mental in origin. As a cult it has its unifying idea
the inculcation of workable optimism in contrast with the "old
thought" of sin, evil, predestination, and pessimistic resignation.
The term is essentially synonymous with the term High Thought, used
in England.

NEWTONIAN
New*to"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Sir Isaac Newton, or his discoveries.
Newtonian philosophy, the philosophy of Sir Isaac Newton; -- applied
to the doctrine of the universe as expounded in Newton's "Principia,"
to the modern or experimental philosophy (as opposed to the theories
of Descartes and others), and, most frequently, to the mathematical
theory of universal gravitation.
 -- Newtonian telescope (Astron.), a reflecting telescope, in which
rays from the large speculum are received by a plane mirror placed
diagonally in the axis, and near the open end of the tube, and thrown
at right angles toward one side of the tube, where the image is
formed and viewed through the eyeplace.
 -- Newtonian theory of light. See Note under Light.

NEWTONIAN
New*to"ni*an, n.

Defn: A follower of Newton.

NEW-YEAR
New"-year`, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or suitable for, the commencement of the
year; as, New-year gifts or odes.

NEW YEAR'S DAY
New" Year's` Day".

Defn: the first day of a calendar year; the first day of January.
Often colloquially abbreviated to New year's or new year.

NEW ZEALAND
New` Zea"land.

Defn: A group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean. New Zealand
flax. (a) (Bot.) A tall, liliaceous herb (Phormium tenax), having
very long, sword-shaped, distichous leaves which furnish a fine,
strong fiber very valuable for cordage and the like. (b) The fiber
itself.
 -- New Zealand tea (Bot.), a myrtaceous shrub (Leptospermum
scoparium) of New Zealand and Australia, the leaves of which are used
as a substitute for tea.

NEXIBLE
Nex"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. nexibilis, from nectere, nexum, to bind.]

Defn: That may be knit together. [R.]

NEXT
Next, a., superl. of Nigh. Etym: [AS. n, niéhst, n, superl. of neáh
nigh. See Nigh.]

1. Nearest in place; having no similar object intervening. Chaucer.
Her princely guest Was next her side; in order sat the rest. Dryden.
Fear followed me so hard, that I fled the next way. Bunyan.

2. Nearest in time; as, the next day or hour.

3. Adjoining in a series; immediately preceding or following in
order.
None could tell whose turn should be the next. Gay.

4. Nearest in degree, quality, rank, right, or relation; as, the next
heir was an infant.
The man is near of kin unto us, one of our next kinsmen. Ruth ii. 20.

Note: Next is usually followed by to before an object, but to is
sometimes omitted. In such cases next in considered by many
grammarians as a preposition. Next friend (Law), one who represents
an infant, a married woman, or any person who can not appear sui
juris, in a suit at law.

NEXT
Next, adv.

Defn: In the time, place, or order nearest or immediately suceeding;
as, this man follows next.

NEXUS
Nex"us, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Connection; tie.
Man is doubtless one by some subtile nexus ... extending from the
new-born infant to the superannuated dotard. De Quincey.

NEZ PERCES
Nez" Per`cés", pl.; sing. Nez PercÉ (. Etym: [F., pierced noses.]
(Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians, mostly inhabiting Idaho.

NGINA
Ngi"na, n. Etym: [Native name.]

Defn: The gorilla.

NIAGARA PERIOD
Ni*ag"a*ra pe"ri*od. (Geol.)

Defn: A subdivision or the American Upper Silurian system, embracing
the Medina, Clinton, and Niagara epoch. The rocks of the Niagara
epoch, mostly limestones, are extensively distributed, and at Niagara
Falls consist of about eighty feet of shale supporting a greater
thickness of limestone, which is gradually undermined by the removal
of the shale. See Chart of Geology.

NIAS
Ni"as, n. Etym: [F. niais. See Eyas.]

Defn: A young hawk; an eyas; hence, an unsophisticated person. [Obs.]

NIB
Nib, n. Etym: [A variabt of neb.]

1. A small and pointed thing or part; a point; a prong. "The little
nib or fructifying principle." Sir T. Browne.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bill or beak of a bird; the neb.

3. The points of a pen; also, the pointed part of a pen; a short pen
adapted for insertion in a holder.

4. One of the handles which project from a scythe snath; also, [Prov.
Eng.], the shaft of a wagon.

NIB
Nib, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nebbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Nibbing.]

Defn: To furnish with a nib; to point; to mend the point of; as, to
nib a pen.

NIBBED
Nibbed, a.

Defn: Having a nib or point.

NIBBLE
Nib"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nibbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Nibbling.]
Etym: [Cf. Nip.]

Defn: To bite by little at a time; to seize gently with the mouth; to
eat slowly or in small bits.
Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep. Shak.

NIBBLE
Nib"ble, v. t.

Defn: To bite upon something gently or cautiously; to eat a little of
a thing, as by taking small bits cautiously; as, fishes nibble at the
bait.
Instead of returning a full answer to my book, he manifestly falls a-
nibbling at one single passage. Tillotson.

NIBBLE
Nib"ble, n.

Defn: A small or cautious bite.

NIBBLER
Nib"bler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, nibbles.

NIBBLINGLY
Nib"bling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a nibbling manner; cautiously.

NIBELUNGENLIED
Ni"be*lung`en*lied`, n. [G. See Nibelungs; Lied.]

Defn: A great medieval German epic of unknown authorship containing
traditions which refer to the Burgundians at the time of Attila
(called Etzel in the poem) and mythological elements pointing to
heathen times.

NIBELUNGS
Ni"be*lungs, n. pl.; sing. Nibelung .

Defn: In German mythology, the children of the mist, a race of dwarfs
or demonic beings, the original possessors of the famous hoard and
ring won by Siegfrid; also, the Burgundian kings in the
Nibelungenlied.

NIBLICK
Nib"lick, n.

Defn: A kind of golf stick used to lift the ball out of holes, ruts,
etc.

NICAGUA
Ni*ca"gua, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The laughing falcon. See under laughing.

NICARAGUA WOOD
Nic`a*ra"gua wood`.

Defn: Brazil wood.

NICCOLITE
Nic"co*lite, n. Etym: [from NL. niccolum nickel.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a copper-red color and metallic luster; an
arsenide of nickel; -- called also coppernickel, kupfernickel.

NICE
Nice, a. [Compar. Nicer; superl. Nicest.] Etym: [OE., foolish, fr.
OF. nice ignorant, fool, fr. L. nescius ignorant; ne not + scius
knowing, scire to know. perhaps influenced by E. nesh delicate, soft.
See No, and Science.]

1. Foolish; silly; simple; ignorant; also, weak; effeminate. [Obs.]
Gower.
But say that we ben wise and nothing nice. Chaucer.

2. Of trifling moment; nimportant; trivial. [Obs.]
The letter was not nice, but full of charge Of dear import. Shak.

3. Overscrupulous or exacting; hard to please or satisfy; fastidious
in small matters.
Curious not knowing, not exact but nice. Pope.
And to taste Think not I shall be nice. Milton.

4. Delicate; refined; dainty; pure.
Dear love, continue nice and chaste. Donne.
A nice and subtile happiness. Milton.

5. Apprehending slight diffferences or delicate distinctions;
distinguishing accurately or minutely; carefully discriminating; as,
a nice taste or judgment. "Our author happy in a judge so nice."
Pope. "Nice verbal criticism." Coleridge.

6. Done or made with careful labor; suited to excite admiration on
account of exactness; evidencing great skill; exact; fine; finished;
as, nice proportions, nice workmanship, a nice application; exactly
or fastidiously discriminated; requiring close discrimination; as, a
nice point of law, a nice distinction in philosophy.
The difference is too nice Where ends the virtue, or begins the vice.
Pope.

7. Pleasing; agreeable; gratifying; delightful; good; as, a nice
party; a nice excursion; a nice person; a nice day; a nice sauce,
etc. [Loosely & Colloquially] To make nice of, to be scrupulous
about. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- Dainty; delicate; exquisite; fine; accurate; exact; correct;
precise; particular; scrupulous; punctilious; fastidious; squeamish;
finical; effeminate; silly.

NICELY
Nice"ly adv.

Defn: In a nice manner.

NICENE
Ni"cene, a. Etym: [L. Nicaenus, fr. Nicaea Nice, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Nice, a town of Asia Minor, or to the
ecumenial council held there A. D. 325. Nicene Creed (, a summary of
Christian faith, composed and adopted by the Council of Nice, against
Arianism, A. D. 325, altered and confirmed by the Council of
Constantinople, A. D. 381, and by subsequent councils.

NICENESS
Nice"ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being nice.

NICERY
Ni"cer*y, n.

Defn: Nicety. [Colloq.] Chapman.

NICETY
Ni"ce*ty, n.; pl. Niceties. Etym: [OE. niceté foolishness.]

1. The quality or state of being nice (in any of the senses of that
word.).
The miller smiled of her nicety. Chaucer.

2. Delicacy or exactness of perception; minuteness of observation or
of discrimination; precision.

3. A delicate expression, act, mode of treatment, distinction, or the
like; a minute distinction.
The fineness and niceties of words. Locke.
To a nicety, with great exactness or accuracy.

NICHE
Niche, n. Etym: [F., fr. It. nicchia, prop., a shell-like recess in a
wall, fr. nicchio a shellfish, mussel, fr. L. mytilus.]

Defn: A cavity, hollow, or recess, generally within the thickness of
a wall, for a statue, bust, or other erect ornament. hence, any
similar position, literal or figurative.
Images defended from the injuries of the weather by niches of stone
wherein they are placed. Evelun.

NICHED
Niched. (, a.

Defn: Placed in a niche. "Those niched shapes of noble mold."
Tennyson.

NICK
Nick (, n. Etym: [AS. nicor a marine monster; akin to D. nikker a
water spite, Icel. nykr, ONG. nihhus a crocodile, G. nix a water
sprite; cf. Gr. nij. Cf. Nix.] (Northern Myth.)

Defn: An evil spirit of the waters. Old Nick, the evil one; the
devil. [Colloq.]

NICK
Nick, n. Etym: [Akin to Nock.]

1. A notch cut into something; as:
(a) A score for keeping an account; a reckoning. [Obs.]
(b) (Print.) A notch cut crosswise in the shank of a type, to assist
a compositor in placing it properly in the stick, and in
distribution. W. Savage.
(c) A broken or indented place in any edge or surface; nicks in
china.

2. A particular point or place considered as marked by a nick; the
exact point or critical moment.
To cut it off in the very nick. Howell.
This nick of time is the critical occasion for the gainger of a
point. L'Estrange.

NICK
Nick, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nicked; p. pr. & vb. n. Nicking.]

1. To make a nick or nicks in; to notch; to keep count of or upon by
nicks; as, to nick a stick, tally, etc.

2. To mar; to deface; to make ragged, as by cutting nicks or notches
in.
And thence proceed to nicking sashes. Prior.
The itch of his affection should not then Have nicked his
captainship. Shak.

3. To suit or fit into, as by a correspondence of nicks; to tally
with.
Words nicking and resembling one another are applicable to different
significations. Camden.

4. To hit at, or in, the nick; to touch rightly; to strike at the
precise point or time.
The just season of doing things must be nicked, and all accidents
improved. L'Estrange.

5. To make a cross cut or cuts on the under side of (the tail of a
horse, in order to make him carry ir higher).

NICK
Nick, v. t.

Defn: To nickname; to style. [Obs.]
For Warbeck, as you nick him, came to me. Ford.

NICKAR NUT; NICKAR TREE
Nick"ar nut`, Nick"ar tree`. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Nicker nut, Nicker tree.

NICKEL
Nick"el, n. Etym: [G., fr. Sw. nickel, abbrev. from Sw. kopparnickel
copper-nickel, a name given in derision, as it was thought to be a
base ore of copper. The origin of the second part of the word is
uncertain. Cf. Kupfer-nickel, Copper-nickel.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A bright silver-white metallic element. It is of the iron
group, and is hard, malleable, and ductile. It occurs combined with
sulphur in millerite, with arsenic in the mineral niccolite, and with
arsenic and sulphur in nickel glance. Symbol Ni. Atomic weight 58.6.

Note: On account of its permanence in air and inertness to oxidation,
it is used in the smaller coins, for plating iron, brass, etc., for
chemical apparatus, and in certain alloys, as german silver. It is
magnetic, and is very frequently accompanied by cobalt, both being
found in meteoric iron.

2. A small coin made of or containing nickel; esp., a five-cent
piece. [Colloq. U.S.] Nickel silver, an alloy of nickel, copper, and
zinc; -- usually called german silver; called also argentan.

NICKELIC
Nick*el"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, nickel; specifically, designating
compounds in which, as contrasted with the nickelous compounds, the
metal has a higher valence; as nickelic oxide.

NICKELIFEROUS
Nick`el*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Nickel + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing nickel; as, nickelferous iron.

NICKELINE
Nick"el*ine ( or ), n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: An alloy of nickel, a variety of German silver.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Niccolite.

NICKELODEON
Nick`el*o"de*on, n.  [Nickel + odeon.]

Defn: A place of entertainment, as for moving picture exhibition,
charging a fee or admission price of five cents. [U. S.]

NICKELOUS
Nick"el*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, those compounds of nickel in
which, as contrasted with the nickelic compounds, the metal has a
lower valence; as, nickelous oxide. Frankland.

NICKEL STEEL
Nickel steel.

Defn: A kind of cast steel containing nickel, which greatly increases
its strength. It is used for armor plate, bicycle tubing, propeller
shafts, etc.

NICKER
Nick"er, n. Etym: [From Nick, v.t.]

1. One of the night brawlers of London formerly noted for breaking
windows with half-pence. [Cant] Arbuthnot.

2. The cutting lip which projects downward at the edge of a boring
bit and cuts a circular groove in the wood to limit the size of the
hole that is bored.

NICKER NUT
Nick"er nut`.

Defn: A rounded seed, rather smaller than a nutmeg, having a hard
smooth shell, and a yellowish or bluish color. The seeds grow in the
prickly pods of tropical, woody climbers of the genus Cæsalpinia. C.
Bonduc has yellowish seeds; C.Bonducella, bluish gray. [Spelt also
neckar nut, nickar nut.]

NICKER TREE
Nick"er tree`. (Bot.)

Defn: The plant producing nicker nuts. [Written also neckar tree and
nickar tree.]

NICKING
Nick"ing, n. Etym: [From Nick, v. t.] (Coal Mining)
(a) The cutting made by the hewer at the side of the face. (b) pl.

Defn: Small coal produced in making the nicking.

NICKLE
Nic"kle, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European woodpecker, or yaffle; -- called also nicker
pecker.

NICKNACK
Nick"nack`, n.

Defn: See Knickknack.

NICKNACKERY
Nick"nack`er*y, n.

Defn: See Knickknackery.

NICKNAME
Nick"name`, n. Etym: [OE. ekename surname, hence, a nickname, an
ekename being understood as a nekename, influenced also by E. nick,
v. See Eke, and Name.]

Defn: A name given in contempt, derision, or sportive familiarity; a
familiar or an opprobrious appellation.

NICKNAME
Nick"name`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nicknamed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Nicknaming.]

Defn: To give a nickname to; to call by a nickname.
You nickname virtue; vice you should have spoke. Shak.
I altogether disclaim what has been nicknamed the doctrine of
finality. Macaulay.

NICOLAITAN
Ni`co*la"i*tan, n. Etym: [So called from Nicolas of Antioch,
mentioned in Acts vi. 5.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of certain corrupt persons in the early church at Ephesus,
who are censured in rev. ii. 6, 15.

NICOTIAN
Ni*co"tian, n. Etym: [F. nicotiane; -- so called from Nicot, who
introduced it into France, a.d. 15

Defn: Tobacco. [R.] B. Jonson.

NICOTIAN
Ni*co"tian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, tobacco. [R.] Bp. Hall.

NICOTIANA
Ni*co"ti*an*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Nicotian.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of American and Asiatic solanaceous herbs, with viscid
foliage and funnel-shaped blossoms. Several species yield tobacco.
See Tobacco.

NICOTIANINE
Ni*co"ti*a*nine ( or ), n. Etym: [F. nicotianine. See Nicotian.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A white waxy substance having a hot, bitter taste, extracted
from tobacco leaves and called also tobacco camphor.

NICOTIC
Ni*cot"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Nicotinic.

NICOTIDINE
Ni*cot"i*dine ( or ), n. Etym: [Nicotine + pyridine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A complex, oily, nitrogenous base, isomeric with nicotine, and
obtained by the reduction of certain derivatives of the pyridine
group.

NICOTINE
Nic"o*tine ( or ), n. Etym: [F. nicotine. See Nicotian.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid which is the active principle of tobacco. It is a
colorless, transparent, oily liquid, having an acrid odor, and an
acrid burning taste. It is intensely poisonous. Ure.

NICOTINIC
Nic`o*tin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, nicotine; nicotic; -- used
specifically to designate an acid related to pyridine, obtained by
the oxidation of nicotine, and called nicotinic acid.

NICOTINISM
Nic"o*tin*ism, n.  [Nicotine + -ism.] (Med.)

Defn: The morbid condition produced by the excessive use of tobacco.

NICTATE
Nic"tate, v. i. Etym: [L. nictare, nictatum, from nicere to beckon.]

Defn: To wink; to nictitate.

NICTATION
Nic*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. nictatio nictation.]

Defn: the act of winking; nictitation.

NICTITATE
Nic"ti*tate, v. i. Etym: [See Nictate.]

Defn: To wink; to nictate. Nictitating membrance (Anat.), a thin
membrance, found in many animals at the inner angle, or beneath the
lower lid, of the eye, and capable of being drawn across the eyeball;
the third eyelid; the haw.

NICTITATION
Nic`ti*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of winking.

NIDAMENTAL
Nid`a*men"tal, a. Etym: [L. nidamentum materials for a nest, fr.
nidus nest. See Nest.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: of, pertaining to, or baring, eggs or egg capsules; as, the
nidament capsules of certain gastropods; nidamental glands. See
Illust. of Dibranchiata.

NIDARY
Ni"da*ry, n. Etym: [L. nidus a nest.]

Defn: A collection of nests. [R.] velyn.

NIDE
Nide, n. Etym: [L. nidus a nest: cf. F. nid.]

Defn: A nestful; a brood; as, a nide of pheasants. [Obs.]

NIDERING
Ni"der*ing, a. Etym: [See Niding.]

Defn: Infamous; dastardly. [Obs.] Sir W. Scott.

NIDGERY
Nidg"er*y, n. Etym: [See Nidget.]

Defn: A trifle; a piece of foolery. [Obs.] Skinner.

NIDGET
Nidg"et, n. [Written also nigget, nigeot.] Etym: [Cf. F. nigaud a
boody, fool, OF. niger to play the fool.]

Defn: A fool; an idiot, a coward. [Obs.] Camden.

NIDIFICATE
Nid"i*fi*cate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Nidificated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Nidificating.] Etym: [L. nidificare, nidificatum; nidus nest + -
ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy, and cf. nest.]

Defn: To make a nest.
Where are the fishes which nidificated in trees Lowell.

NIDIFICATION
Nid`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. nidification.]

Defn: The act or process of building a nest.

NIDING
Ni"ding (ni"dîng), n. [Written also nithing.] Etym: [AS. niedhing,
fr. niedh wickness, malice, hatred.]

Defn: A coward; a dastard; -- a term of utmost opprobrium. [Obs.]
He is worthy to be called a niding. Howell.

NIDOR
Ni"dor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Scent or savor of meat or food, cooked or cooking. [Obs.] Jer.
Taylor.

NIDOROSE
Ni"dor*ose`, a.

Defn: Nidorous. [R.] Arbuthnot.

NIDOROUS
Ni"dor*ous, a. Etym: [L. nidorosus steaming, reeking: cf. F.
nidoreux. See Nidor.]

Defn: Resembling the smell or taste of roast meat, or of corrupt
animal matter. [R.]

NIDULANT
Nid"u*lant, a. Etym: [L. nidulans, p.pr.: cf. F. Nidulant.]

1. Nestling, as a bird in itss nest.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Lying loose in pulp or cotton within a berry or pericarp, as in
a nest.

NIDULATE
Nid"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Nidulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Nidulating.] Etym: [L. nidulari, fr. nidulus, dim. of nidus a nest.]

Defn: To make a nest, as a bird. [R.] Cockeram.

NIDULATION
Nid`u*la"tion, n.

Defn: The time of remaining in the nest. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

NIDULITE
Nid"u*lite, n. Etym: [L. nidulus a little nest.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A Silurian fossil, formerly supposed to consist of eggs.

NIDUS
Ni"dus, n.; pl. nidi. Etym: [L. See Nidi, Nest.]

Defn: A nest: a repository for the eggs of birds, insects, etc.; a
breeding place; esp., the place or substance where parasites or the
germs of a disease effect lodgment or are developed.

NIECE
Niece, n. Etym: [OE. nece, F. nièce, LL. neptia, for L. neptis a
granddaughter, niece, akin to nepos. See Nephew.]

1. A relative, in general; especially, a descendant, whether male or
female; a granddaughter or a grandson. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Wyclif.
Shak.

2. A daughter of one's brother or sister, or of one's brother-in-law
or sister-in-law.

NIEF
Nief, n.

Defn: See Neif, the fist.

NIELLIST
Ni*el"list, n.

Defn: One who practices the style of ornamentation called niello.

NIELLO
Ni*el"lo, n. Etym: [It. niello, LL. nigellum a black of blackish
enamel, fr. L. nigellus, dim. of niger black. See Negro, and cf.
Anneal.]

1. A metallic alloy of a deep black color.

2. The art, process, or method of decorating metal with incised
designs filled with the black alloy.

3. A piece of metal, or any other object, so decorated.

4. An impression on paper taken from an ancient incised decoration or
metal plate.

NIEPCE'S PROCESS
Niep"ce's proc"ess. (Photog.)

Defn: A process, now no longer used, invented by J. N. Niepce, a
French chemist, in 1829. It depends upon the action of light in
rendering a thin layer of bitumen, with which the plate is coated,
insoluble.

NIFLE
Ni"fle, n. Etym: [OF.]

Defn: A trifle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NIGGARD
Nig"gard, n. Etym: [Icel. hnöggr niggardly, stingy + -ard; cf. Sw.
njugg, AS. hneáw.]

Defn: A person meanly close and covetous; one who spends grudgingly;
a stingy, parsimonous fellow; a miser. Chaucer.
A penurious niggard of his wealth. Milton.
Be niggards of advice on no pretense. Pope.

NIGGARD
Nig"gard, a.

Defn: Like a niggard; meanly covetous or parsimonious; niggardly;
miserly; stingy.

NIGGARD
Nig"gard, v. t. & i.

Defn: To act the niggard toward; to be niggardly. [R.] Shak.

NIGGARDISE
Nig"gard*ise, n.

Defn: Niggardliness. [Obs.] Spenser.

NIGGARDISH
Nig"gard*ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat niggard.

NIGGARDLINESS
Nig"gard*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being niggard; meanness in giving or
spending; parsimony; stinginess.
Niggardliness is not good husbandry. Addison.

NIGGARDLY
Nig"gard*ly, a.

Defn: Meanly covetous or avarcious in dealing with others; stingy;
niggard.
Where the owner of the house will be bountiful, it is not for the
steward to be niggardly. Bp. Hall.

Syn.
 -- Avarcious; covetous; parsimonious; sparing; miserly; penurios;
sordid; stingy. See Avaricious.

NIGGARDLY
Nig"gard*ly, adv.

Defn: In a niggard manner.

NIGGARDNESS
Nig"gard*ness, n.

Defn: Niggardliness. Sir P. Sidney.

NIGGARDOUS
Nig"gard*ous, a.

Defn: Niggardly. [Obs.]
Covetous gathering and niggardous keeping. Sir T. More.

NIGGARDSHIP
Nig"gard*ship, n.

Defn: Niggardliness. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

NIGGARDY
Nig"gard*y, n.

Defn: Niggardliness. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NIGGED
nigged, n. Etym: [Prov. E. nig to clip money.] (Masonry)

Defn: Hammer-dressed; -- said of building stone.

NIGGER
Nig"ger, n.

Defn: A negro; -- in vulgar derision or depreciation.

NIGGERHEAD
Nig"ger*head`, n.

Defn: A strong black chewing tobacco, usually in twisted plug form;
negro head.

NIGGISH
Nig"gish, a. Etym: [See Niggard.]

Defn: Niggardly. [Obs.]

NIGGLE
Nig"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Niggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Niggling.]
Etym: [Dim. of Prov. E. nig to clip money; cf. also Prov. E. nig a
small piece.]

Defn: To trifle with; to deceive; to mock. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

NIGGLE
Nig"gle, v. t.

1. To trifle or play.
Take heed, daughter, You niggle not with your conscience and
religion. Massinger.

2. To act or walk mincingly. [Prov. Eng.]

3. To fret and snarl about trifles. [Prov. Eng.]

NIGGLER
Nig"gler, n.

Defn: One who niggles.

NIGGLING
Nig"gling, n.

Defn: Finicky or pottering work; specif. (Fine Arts),

Defn: minute and very careful workmanship in drawing, painting, or
the like, esp. when bestowed on unimportant detail.

NIGH
Nigh, a. [Compar. Nigher; superl. Nighest, or Next (.] Etym: [OE.
nigh, neigh, neih, AS. neáh, n; akin to D. na, adv., OS. nah, a.,
OHG. nah, G. nah, a., nach to, after, Icel. na (in comp.) nigh, Goth.
n, n, adv., nigh. Cf. Near, Neighbor, Next.]

1. Not distant or remote in place or time; near.
The loud tumult shows the battle nigh. Prior.

2. Not remote in degree, kindred, circumstances, etc.; closely
allied; intimate. "Nigh kinsmen." Knolles.
Ye ... are made nigh by the blood of Christ. Eph. ii. 13.

Syn.
 -- Near; close; adjacent; contiguous; present; neighboring.

NIGH
Nigh, adv. Etym: [AS. neáh, n. See Nigh, a.]

1. In a situation near in place or time, or in the course of events;
near.
He was sick, nigh unto death. Phil. ii. 27.
He drew not nigh unheard; the angel bright, Ere he drew nigh, his
radiant visage turned. Milton.

2. Almost; nearly; as, he was nigh dead.

NIGH
Nigh, v. t. & i.

Defn: To draw nigh (to); to approach; to come near. [Obs.] Wyclif
(Matt. iii. 2).

NIGH
Nigh, prep.

Defn: Near to; not remote or distant from. "was not this nigh shore"
Shak.

NIGHLY
Nigh"ly, adv.

Defn: In a near relation in place, time, degree, etc.; within a
little; almost. [Obs.]
A cube and a sphere ... nighly of the same bigness. Locke.

NIGHNESS
Nigh"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being nigh. [R.] "Nighness of blood."
Holished.

NIGHT
Night, n. Etym: [OE. night, niht, AS. neaht, niht; akin to D. nacht,
OS. & OHG. naht, G. nacht, Icel. n, Sw. natt, Dan. nat, Goth. nachts,
Lith. naktis, Russ. noche, W. nos, Ir. nochd, L. nox, noctis, gr.
nakta, nakti. sq. root 265. Cf. Equinox, Nocturnal.]

1. That part of the natural day when the sun is beneath the horizon,
or the time from sunset to sunrise; esp., the time between dusk and
dawn, when there is no light of the sun, but only moonlight,
starlight, or artificial light.
And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. Gen.
i. 5.

2. Hence:
(a) Darkness; obscurity; concealment.
Nature and nature's laws lay hid in night. Pope.

(b) Intellectual and moral darkness; ignorance.
(c) A state of affliction; adversity; as, a dreary night of sorrow.
(d) The period after the close of life; death.
She closed her eyes in everlasting night. Dryden.

(e) A lifeless or unenlivened period, as when nature seems to sleep.
"Sad winter's night". Spenser.

Note: Night is sometimes used, esp. with participles, in the
formation of self-explaining compounds; as, night-blooming, night-
born, night-warbling, etc. Night by night, Night after night,
nightly; many nights.
So help me God, as I have watched the night, Ay, night by night, in
studying good for England. Shak.
-- Night bird. (Zoöl.) (a) The moor hen (Gallinula chloropus). (b)
The Manx shearwater (Puffinus Anglorum).
 -- Night blindness. (Med.) See Hemeralopia.
 -- Night cart, a cart used to remove the contents of privies by
night.
 -- Night churr, (Zoöl.), the nightjar.
 -- Night crow, a bird that cries in the night.
 -- Night dog, a dog that hunts in the night, -- used by poachers.
 -- Night fire. (a) Fire burning in the night. (b) Ignis fatuus;
Will-o'-the-wisp; Jask-with-a-lantern.
 -- Night flyer (Zoöl.), any creature that flies in the night, as
some birds and insects.
 -- night glass, a spyglass constructed to concentrate a large amount
of light, so as see objects distinctly at night. Totten.
 -- Night green, iodine green.
 -- Night hag, a witch supposed to wander in the night.
 -- Night hawk (Zoöl.), an American bird (Chordeiles Virginianus),
allied to the goatsucker. It hunts the insects on which it feeds
toward evening, on the wing, and often, diving down perpendicularly,
produces a loud whirring sound, like that of a spinning wheel. Also
sometimes applied to the European goatsuckers. It is called also bull
bat.
 -- Night heron (Zoöl.), any one of several species of herons of the
genus Nycticorax, found in various parts of the world. The best known
species is Nycticorax griseus, or N. nycticorax, of Europe, and the
American variety (var. nævius). The yellow-crowned night heron
(Nycticorax violaceus) inhabits the Southern States. Called also qua-
bird, and squawk.
 -- Night house, a public house, or inn, which is open at night.
 -- Night key, a key for unfastening a night latch.
 -- Night latch, a kind of latch for a door, which is operated from
the outside by a key.
 -- Night monkey (Zoöl.), an owl monkey.
 -- night moth (Zoöl.), any one of the noctuids.
 -- Night parrot (Zoöl.), the kakapo.
 -- Night piece, a painting representing some night scene, as a
moonlight effect, or the like.
 -- Night rail, a loose robe, or garment, worn either as a nightgown,
or over the dress at night, or in sickness. [Obs.] -- Night raven
(Zoöl.), a bird of ill omen that cries in the night; esp., the
bittern.
 -- Night rule. (a) A tumult, or frolic, in the night; -- as if a
corruption, of night revel. [Obs.] (b) Such conduct as generally
rules, or prevails, at night.
What night rule now about this haunted grove Shak.
-- Night sight. (Med.) See Nyctolopia.
 -- Night snap, a night thief. [Cant] Beau. & Fl.
 -- Night soil, human excrement; -- so called because in cities it is
collected by night and carried away for manure.
 -- Night spell, a charm against accidents at night.
 -- Night swallow (Zoöl.), the nightjar.
 -- Night walk, a walk in the evening or night.
 -- Night walker. (a) One who walks in his sleep; a somnambulist; a
noctambulist. (b) One who roves about in the night for evil purposes;
specifically, a prostitute who walks the streets.
 -- Night walking. (a) Walking in one's sleep; somnambulism;
noctambulism. (b) Walking the streets at night with evil designs.
 -- Night warbler (Zoöl.), the sedge warbler (Acrocephalus
phragmitis); -- called also night singer. [prov. Eng.] -- Night
watch. (a) A period in the night, as distinguished by the change of
watch. (b) A watch, or guard, to aford protection in the night.
 -- Night watcher, one who watches in the night; especially, one who
watches with evil designs.
 -- Night witch. Same as Night hag, above.

NIGHT-BLOOMING
Night"-bloom`ing, a.

Defn: Blooming in the night. Night-blooming cereus. (Bot.) See Note
under Cereus.

NIGHTCAP
Night"cap`, n.

1. A cap worn in bed to protect the head, or in undress.

2. A potion of spirit drank at bedtime. [Cant] Wright.

NIGHTDRESS
Night"dress`, n.

Defn: A nightgown.

NIGHTED
Night"ed, a.

1. Darkness; clouded. [R.] Shak.

2. Overtaken by night; belated. Beau. & Fl.

NIGHTERTALE
Night"er*tale, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. nattarpel.]

Defn: period of night; nighttime. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NIGHT-EYED
Night"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Capable of seeing at night; sharp-eyed. "Your night-eyed
Tiberius." B. Jonson.

NIGHTFALL
Night"fall`, n.

Defn: The close of the day. Swift.

NIGHT-FARING
Night"-far`ing, a.

Defn: Going or traveling in the night. Gay.

NIGHTGOWN
Night"gown`, n.

Defn: A loose gown used for undress; also, a gown used for a sleeping
garnment.

NIGHTINGALE
Night"in*gale, n. Etym: [OE. nihtegale,nightingale, AS. nihtegale;
niht night + galan to sing, akin to E. yell; cf. D. nachtegaal, OS.
nahtigala, OHG. nahtigala, G. nachtigall, Sw. näktergal, Dan.
nattergal. See Night, and Yell.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, plain, brown and gray European song bird (Luscinia
luscinia). It sings at night, and is celebrated for the sweetness of
its song.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A larger species (Lucinia philomela), of Eastern Europe, having
similar habits; the thrush nightingale. The name is also applied to
other allied species. Mock nightingale. (Zoöl.) See Blackcap, n., 1
(a).

NIGHTISH
Night"ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to night.

NIGHTJAR
Night"jar`, n.

Defn: A goatsucker, esp. the European species. See Illust. of
Goatsucker.

NIGHTLESS
Night"less, a.

Defn: Having no night.

NIGHT LETTER; NIGHT LETTERGRAM
Night letter, Night lettergram.

Defn: See Letter, above.

NIGHTLONG
Night"long`, a.

Defn: Lasting all night.

NIGHTLY
Night"ly, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the night, or to every night; happening or
done by night, or every night; as, nightly shades; he kept nightly
vigils.

NIGHTLY
Night"ly, adv.

Defn: At night; every night.

NIGHTMAN
Night"man, n.; pl. Nightmen (.

Defn: One whose business is emptying privies by night.

NIGHTMARE
Night"mare`, n. Etym: [Night + mare incubus. See Mare incubus.]

1. A fiend or incubus formerly supposed to cause trouble in sleep.

2. A condition in sleep usually caused by improper eating or by
digestive or nervous troubles, and characterized by a sense of
extreme uneasiness or discomfort (as of weight on the chest or
stomach, impossibility of motion or speech, etc.), or by frightful or
oppressive dreams, from which one wakes after extreme anxiety, in a
troubled state of mind; incubus. Dunglison.

3. Hence, any overwhelming, oppressive, or stupefying influence.

NIGHTSHADE
Night"shade`, n. Etym: [AS. nichtscadu.] (Bot.)

Defn: A common name of many species of the genus Solanum, given esp.
to the Solanum nigrum, or black nightshade, a low, branching weed
with small white flowers and black berries reputed to be poisonous.
Deadly nightshade. Same as Belladonna (a).
 -- Enchanter's nightshade. See under Enchanter.
 -- Stinking nightshade. See Henbane.
 -- Three-leaved nightshade. See Trillium.

NIGHTSHIRT
Night"shirt`, n.

Defn: A kind of nightgown for men.

NIGHT TERRORS
Night terrors. (Med.)

Defn: A sudden awkening associated with a sensation of terror,
occurring in children, esp. those of unstable nervous constitution.

NIGHTTIME
Night"time`, n.

Defn: The time from dusk to dawn; -- opposed to Ant: daytime.

NIGHTWARD
Night"ward, a.

Defn: Approaching toward night.

NIGRANILINE
Ni*gran"i*line ( or ), n. Etym: [L. niger black + E. aniline.]
(Chem.)

Defn: The complex, nitrogenous, organic base and dyestuff called also
aniline black.

NIGRESCENT
Ni*gres"cent, a. Etym: [L. nigrescens, p.pr. of nigrescere to grow
black, fr. niger black. See Negro.]

Defn: Growing black; changing to a black color; approaching to
blackness. Johnson.

NIGRIFICATION
Nig`ri*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. nigrificare to blacken; niger black +
-ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy.]

Defn: The act or process of making black. [R.] Johnson.

NIGRINE
Ni"grine, n. Etym: [L. niger black: cf. F. nigrine.] (Min.)

Defn: A ferruginous variety of rutile.

NIGRITIC
Ni*grit"ic, a. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or having the characteristics of, negroes, or of
the Negritos, Papuans, and the Melanesian races; negritic.

NIGRITUDE
Nig"ri*tude, n. Etym: [L. nigritudo, fr. niger black.]

Defn: Blackness; the state of being black. Lamb.

NIGROMANCIE
Nig"ro*man`cie, n.

Defn: Necromancy. [Obs.]

NIGROMANCIEN
Nig"ro*man`cien, n.

Defn: A necromancer. [Obs.]
These false enchanters or nigromanciens. Chaucer.

NIGROSINE
Ni"gro*sine ( or ), n. Etym: [From L. niger black.] (Chem.)

Defn: A dark blue dyestuff, of the induline group; -- called also
azodiphenyl blue.

NIGUA
Ni"gua, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The chigoe.

NIHIL
Ni"hil, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Nothing. Nihil album Etym: [L., white nothing] (Chem.), oxide
of zinc. See under Zinc.
 -- Nihil debet Etym: [L., he owes nothing] (Law), the general issue
in certain actions of debt.
 -- Nihil dicit Etym: [L., he says nothing] (Law), a declinature by
the defendant to plead or answer. Tomlins.

NIHILISM
Ni"hil*ism, n. Etym: [L. nihil nothing: cf. F. nihilisme. See
Annihilate.]

1. Nothingness; nihility.

2. The doctrine that nothing can be known; scepticism as to all
knowledge and all reality.

3. (Politics)

Defn: The theories and practices of the Nihilists.

NIHILIST
Ni"hil*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. nihiliste. See Nihilism.]

1. One who advocates the doctrine of nihilism; one who believes or
teaches that nothing can be known, or asserted to exist.

2. (Politics)

Defn: A member of a secret association (esp. in Russia), which is
devoted to the destruction of the present political, religious, and
social institutions.

NIHILISTIC
Ni`hil*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, nihilism.

NIHILITY
Ni*hil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. nihilité. See Nihilism.]

Defn: Nothingness; a state of being nothing.

NIL
Nil. Etym: [See Nill, v. t.]

Defn: Will not. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NIL
Nil, n. & a. Etym: [L., a contr. of nihil.]

Defn: Nothing; of no account; worthless; -- a term often used for
canceling, in accounts or bookkeeping. A. J. Ellis.

NILE
Nile, n. Etym: [L. Nilus, gr.

Defn: The great river of Egypt. Nile bird. (Zoöl.) (a) The wryneck.
[Prov. Eng.] (b) The crocodile bird.
 -- Nile goose (Zoöl.), the Egyptian goose. See Note under Goose, 2.

NILGAU
Nil"gau, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: see Nylghau.

NILL
Nill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nilled; p. pr. & vb. n. Nilling.] Etym:
[AS. nilan, nyllan; ne not + willan to will. See No, and Will.]

Defn: Not to will; to refuse; to reject. [Obs.]
Certes, said he, I nill thine offered grace. Spenser.

NILL
Nill, v. i.

Defn: To be unwilling; to refuse to act.
The actions of the will are "velle" and "nolle," to will and nill.
Burton.
Will he, nill he, whether he wills it or not.

NILL
Nill, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. & Gael. neul star, light. Cf. Nebula.]

1. Shining sparks thrown off from melted brass.

2. Scales of hot iron from the forge. Knight.

NILOMETER
Ni*lom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. nilomètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the rise of water in the Nile
during its periodical flood.

NILOSCOPE
Ni"lo*scope, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A Nilometer.

NILOTIC
Ni*lot"ic, a. Etym: [L. Niloticus, fr. Nilus th Nile, Gr. nilotique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the river Nile; as, the Nilotic crocodile.

NILT
Nilt. Etym: [Contr. fr. ne wilt.]

Defn: Wilt not. [Obs.]

NIM
Nim, v. t. [imp. Nam or Nimmed (; p. p. Nomen or Nome (.] Etym: [AS.
niman. sq. root 7. Cf. Nimble.]

Defn: To take; to steal; to filch. [Obs.]
This canon it in his hand nam. Chaucer.

NIMBIFEROUS
Nim*bif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. nimbifer; nimbus a cloud + ferre to
bear.]

Defn: Serving to bring clouds or stormy weather.

NIMBLE
Nim"ble, a. [Compar. Nimbler; superl. Nimblest.] Etym: [OE. nimel,
prob. orig., quick at seizing, fr. nimen to take, AS. niman; akin to
D. nemen, G. nehmen, OHG. neman, Icel. nema, Goth. nima, and prob. to
Gr. Nomand, Numb.]

Defn: Light and quick in motion; moving with ease and celerity;
lively; swift.
Through the mid seas the nimble pinnace sails. Pope.

Note: Nimble is sometimes used in the formation of self-explaining
compounds; as, nimble-footed, nimble-pinioned, nimble-winged, etc.
Nimble Will (Bot.), a slender, branching, American grass
(Muhlenbergia diffusa), of some repute for grazing purposes in the
Mississippi valley.

Syn.
 -- Agile; quick; active; brisk; lively; prompt.

NIMBLENESS
Nim"ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being nimble; lightness and quickness in motion;
agility; swiftness.

NIMBLESS
Nim"bless, n.

Defn: Nimbleness. [Obs.] Spenser.

NIMBLY
Nim"bly, adv.

Defn: In a nimble manner; with agility; with light, quick motion.

NIMBOSE
Nim*bose", a. Etym: [L. nimbosus, fr. nimbus cloud.]

Defn: Cloudy; stormy; tempestuous.

NIMBUS
Nim"bus, n.; pl. L. Nimbi, E. Nimbuses. Etym: [L., a rain storm, a
rain cloud, the cloudshaped which enveloped the gods when they
appeared on earth.]

1. (Fine Arts)

Defn: A circle, or disk, or any indication of radiant light around
the heads of divinities, saints, and sovereigns, upon medals,
pictures, etc.; a halo. See Aureola, and Glory, n., 5.

Note: "The nimbus is of pagan origin." "As an atribute of power, the
nimbus is often seen attached to the heads of evil spirits."
Fairholl.

2. (Meteor.)

Defn: A rain cloud; one of the four principal varieties of clouds.
See Cloud.

NIMIETY
Ni*mi"e*ty, n. Etym: [L. nimietas, fr. nimius, a., nimis, adv., too
much.]

Defn: State of being in excess. [R.]
There is a nimiety, a too-muchess, in all Germans. Coleridge.

NIMIOUS
Nim"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. nimius.]

Defn: Excessive; extravagant; inordinate. [Obs.]

NIMMER
Nim"mer, n. Etym: [From Nim.]

Defn: A thief. [Obs.]

NIN
Nin. Etym: [Fr. ne in.]

Defn: Not in. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NINCOMPOOP
Nin"com*poop, n. Etym: [A corruption of non compos.]

Defn: A fool; a silly or stupid person. [Law]
An old ninnyhammer, a dotard, a nincompoop, is the best language she
can afford me. Addison.

NINE
Nine, a. Etym: [OE. nine, nihen, AS. nigon, nigan; akin to D. & LG.
negen, OS. & OFries. nigun, OHG. niun, G. neun, Icel. niu, sw. nio,
Dan. ni, Goth. niun, Ir. & Gael. naoi, W. naw, L. novem, gr. navan;
of unknown origin. Novembeer.]

Defn: Eight and one more; one less than ten; as, nine miles. Nine
men's morris. See Morris.
 -- Nine points circle (Geom.), a circle so related to any given
triangle as to pass through the three points in which the
perpendiculars from the angles of the triangle upon the opposite
sides (or the sides produced) meet the sides. It also passes through
the three middle points of the sides of the triangle and through the
three middle points of those parts of the perpendiculars that are
between their common point of meeting and the angles of the triangle.
The circle is hence called the nine points or six points circle.

NINE
Nine, n.

1. The number greater than eight by a unit; nine units or objects.

2. A symbol representing nine units, as 9 or ix. The Nine, the nine
Muses.

NINE-BARK
Nine"-bark`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A white-flowered rosaceous shrub (Neillia, or Spiræa,
opulifolia), common in the Northern United States. The bark separates
into many thin layers, whence the name.

NINE-EYES
Nine"-eyes`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lamprey.

NINEFOLD
Nine"fold`, a.

Defn: Nine times repeated.

NINEHOLES
Nine"holes`, n. pl.

Defn: A game in which nine holes are made in the ground, into which a
ball is bowled.

NINE-KILLER
Nine"-kill`er, n. Etym: [So called because it is believed to kill and
impale on thorns nine birds, etc., in succession.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The northern butcher bird.

NINEPENCE
Nine"pence, n.; pl. Ninepences (.

1. An old English silver coin, worth nine pence.

2. A New England name for the Spanish real, a coin formerly current
in the United States, as valued at twelve and a half cents.

NINEPINS
Nine"pins, n. pl.

Defn: A game played with nine pins, or pieces of wood, set on end, at
which a wooden ball is bowled to knock them down; bowling.

Note: In the United States, ten pins are used for this game, which is
therefore often called tenpins.

NINESCORE
Nine"score`, a.

Defn: Nine times twenty, or one hundred and eighty.
 -- n.

Defn: The product of nine times twenty; ninescore units or objects.

NINETEEN
Nine"teen`, a. Etym: [AS. nigont, nigont. See Nine, and Ten.]

Defn: Nine and ten; eighteen and one more; one less than twenty; as,
nineteen months.

NINETEEN
Nine"teen`, n.

1. The number greater than eighteen by a unit; the sum of ten and
nine; nineteen units or objects.

2. A symbol for nineteen units, as 19 or xix.

NINETEENTH
Nine"teenth`, a. Etym: [Cf. AS. nigonteó.]

1. Following the eighteenth and preceding the twentieth; coming after
eighteen others.

2. Constituting or being one of nineteen equal parts into which
anything is divided.

NINETEENTH
Nine"teenth`, n.

1. The quotient of a unit divided by nineteen; one of nineteen equal
parts of anything.

2. The next in order after the eighteenth.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: An interval of two octaves and a fifth.

NINETIETH
Nine"ti*eth, a.

1. Next in order after the eighty-ninth.

2. Constituting or being one of ninety equal parts.

NINETIETH
Nine"ti*eth, n.

1. The quotient of a unit divided by ninety; one of ninety equal
parts of anything.

2. The next in order after the eighty-ninth.

NINETY
Nine"ty, a. Etym: [See Nine, and cf. Forty.]

Defn: Nine times ten; eighty-nine and one more; as, ninety men.

NINETY
Nine"ty, n.; pl. Nineties (.

1. The sum of nine times ten; the number greater by a unit than
eighty-nine; ninety units or objects.

2. A symbol representing ninety units, as 90 or xc.

NINNY
Nin"ny, n.; pl. Ninnies. Etym: [Cf. It. ninno, ninna, a baby, Sp.
niño, niña, child, infant, It. ninna, ninna nanna, lullably, prob.
fr. ni, na, as used in singing a child to sleep.]

Defn: A fool; a simpleton. Shak.

NINNYHAMMER
Nin"ny*ham`mer, n.

Defn: A simpleton; a silly person. [Colloq.] Addison.

NINTH
Ninth, a. Etym: [From Nine; cf. AS. nigoedha.]

1. Following the eight and preceding the tenth; coming after eight
others.

2. Constituting or being one of nine equal parts into which anything
is divided.

NINTH
Ninth, n.

1. The quotient of one divided by nine; one of nine equal parts of a
thing; the next after the eighth.

2. (Mus.)
(a) An interval containing an octave and a second.
(b) A chord of the dominant seventh with the ninth added.

NINTHLY
Ninth"ly, adv.

Defn: In the ninth place.

NINUT
Nin"ut, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The magpie. [Prov. Eng.]

NIOBATE
Ni"o*bate, n. Etym: [See Niobium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Columbate.

NIOBE
Ni"o*be, n. Etym: [L. Nioba, Niobe, gr. (Class, Myth.)

Defn: The daughter of Tantalus, and wife of Amphion, king of Thebes.
Her pride in her children provoked Apollo and Diana, who slew them
all. Niobe herself was changed by the gods into stone.

NIOBIC
Ni*ob"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Columbic.

NIOBITE
Ni"o*bite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Same as Columbite.

NIOBIUM
Ni*o"bi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. & E. Niobe.] (Chem.)

Defn: A later name of columbium. See Columbium.

NIOPO
Ni*o"po, n.

Defn: A kind of snuff prepared by the natives of Venezuela from the
roasted seeds of a leguminous tree (Piptadenia peregrina), thence
called niopo tree.

NIP
Nip, n. Etym: [LG. & D. nippen to sip; akin to Dan. nippe, G.
nippen.]

Defn: A sip or small draught; esp., a draught of intoxicating liquor;
a dram.

NIP
Nip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nipped, less properly Nipt; p. pr. & vb. n.
Nipping.] Etym: [OE. nipen; cf. D. niipen to pinch, also knippen to
nip, clip, pinch, snap, knijpen to pinch, LG. knipen, G. kneipen,
kneifen, to pinch, cut off, nip, Lith. knebti.]

1. To catch and inclose or compress tightly between two surfaces, or
points which are brought together or closed; to pinch; to close in
upon.
May this hard earth cleave to the Nadir hell, Down, down, and close
again, and nip me flat, If I be such a traitress. Tennyson.

2. To remove by pinching, biting, or cutting with two meeting edges
of anything; to clip.
The small shoots ... must be nipped off. Mortimer.

3. Hence: To blast, as by frost; to check the growth or vigor of; to
destroy.

4. To vex or pain, as by nipping; hence, to taunt.
And sharp remorse his heart did prick and nip. Spenser.
To nip in the bud, to cut off at the verycommencement of growth; to
kill in the incipient stage.

NIP
Nip, n.

1. A seizing or closing in upon; a pinching; as, in the northern
seas, the nip of masses of ice.

2. A pinch with the nails or teeth.

3. A small cut, or a cutting off the end.

4. A blast; a killing of the ends of plants by frost.

5. A biting sarcasm; a taunt. Latimer.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: A short turn in a rope. Nip and tuck, a phrase signifying
equality in a contest. [Low, U.S.]

NIPPER
Nip"per, n.

1. One who, or that which, nips.

2. A fore tooth of a horse. The nippers are four in number.

3. A satirist. [Obs.] Ascham.

4. A pickpocket; a young or petty thief. [Old Cant]

5. (Zoöl.)
(a) The cunner.
(b) A European crab (Polybius Henslowii).

NIPPERKIN
Nip"per*kin, n. Etym: [See 1st Nip.]

Defn: A small cup. [Obs.]

NIPPERS
Nip"pers, n. pl. Etym: [From 2d Nip.]

1. Small pinchers for holding, breaking, or cutting.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A device with fingers or jaws for seizing an object and holding
or conveying it; as, in a printing press, a clasp for catching a
sheet and conveying it to the form.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A number of rope-yarns wound together, used to secure a cable
to the messenger.

NIPPING
Nip"ping, a.

Defn: Biting; pinching; painful; destructive; as, a nipping frost; a
nipping wind.

NIPPINGLY
Nip"ping*ly, adv.

Defn: In a nipping manner.

NIPPITATE
Nip"pi*tate, a. Etym: [Cf. 1st Nip.]

Defn: Peculiary strong and good; -- said of ale or liquor. [Old Cant]
'T will make a cup of wine taste nippitate. Chapman.

NIPPITATO
Nip`pi*ta"to, n.

Defn: Strong liquor. [Old Cant] Beau. & Fl.

NIPPLE
Nip"ple, n. Etym: [Formerly neble, a dim. of neb. See Neb, Nib.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the breast or
mamma; the mammilla; a teat; a pap.

2. The orifice at which any animal liquid, as the oil from an oil
bag, is discharged. [R.] Derham.

3. Any small projection or article in which there is an orifice for
discharging a fluid, or for other purposes; as, the nipple of a
nursing bottle; the nipple of a percussion lock, or that part on
which the cap is put and through which the fire passes to the charge.

4. (Mech.)

Defn: A pipe fitting, consisting of a short piece of pipe, usually
provided with a screw thread at each end, for connecting two other
fittings. Solder nipple, a short pipe, usually of brass, one end of
which is tapered and adapted for attachment to the end of a lead pipe
by soldering.

NIPPLEWORT
Nip"ple*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A yellow-flowered composite herb (Lampsana communis), formerly
used as an external application to the nipples of women; -- called
also dock-cress.

NIRVANA
Nir*va"na, n. Etym: [Skr. nirvansa.]

Defn: In the Buddhist system of religion, the final emancipation of
the soul from transmigration, and consequently a beatific
enfrachisement from the evils of wordly existence, as by annihilation
or absorption into the divine. See Buddhism.

NIS
Nis. Etym: [From ne is.]

Defn: Is not. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NISAN
Ni"san, n. Etym: [Heb. nisan.]

Defn: The first month of the jewish ecclesiastical year, formerly
answering nearly to the month of April, now to March, of the
Christian calendar. See Abib.

NISEY
Ni"sey, n.; pl. Nyseys.

Defn: A simpleton. [Obs.]

NISI
Ni"si, conj. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Unless; if not.

Note: In legal proceedings, this word is used to indicate that any
order, etc., shall take effect at a given time, unless before that
time the order, etc., in modified, or something else is done to
prevent its taking effect. Continuance nisi is a conditional
continuance of the case till the next term of the court, unless
otherwise disposed of in the mean time. Nisi prius (Law), unless
before; -- a phrase applied to terms of court, held generally by a
single judge, with a jury, for the trial of civil causes. The term
originated in a legal fiction. An issue of fact being made up, it is,
according to the English practice, appointed by the entry on the
record, or written proceedings, to be tried by a jury from the county
of which the proceedings are dated, at Westminster, unless before the
day appointed (nisi prius) the judges shall have come to the county
in question (which they always do) and there try the cause. See In
banc, under Banc.

NISTE
Nis"te. Etym: [Contr. from ne wiste.]

Defn: Wist not; knew not. [Obs.] Chaucer.