

NISUS
Ni"sus, n. Etym: [L., fr. niti, p.p. nisus, to strive.]

Defn: A striving; an effort; a conatus.
A nisus or energizing towards a presented object. Hickok.

NIT
Nit, n. Etym: [AS. hnitu; akin to D. neet, G. niss, OHG. niz; cf. gr.
gnit, Sw. gnet, Dan. gnid, Russ. & Pol. gnida, Bohem. hnida, W.
nedd.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The egg of a louse or other small insect. Nit grass (Bot.), a
pretty annual European grass (Gastridium lendigerum), with small
spikelets somewhat resembling a nit. It is also found in California
and Chili.

NITENCY
Ni"ten*cy, n. Etym: [L. nitens, p.pr. of nitere to shine.]

Defn: Brightness; luster. [R.]

NITENCY
Ni"ten*cy, n. Etym: [From :. nitens, p.pr. pf niti to strive.]

Defn: Endeavor; rffort; tendency. [R.] Boyle.

NITER; NITRE
Ni"ter, Ni"tre, n. Etym: [F. nitre, L. nitrum native soda, natron,
Gr. nit, natr natron. Cf. Natron.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline semitransparent salt; potassium nitrate;
saltpeter. See Saltpeter.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Native sodium carbonate; natron. [Obs.]
For though thou wash thee with niter, and take thee much soap, yet
thine iniquity is marked before me. Jer. ii. 22.
Cubic niter, a deliquescent salt, sodium nitrate, found as a native
incrustation, like niter, in Peru and Chili, whence it is known also
as Chili saltpeter.
 -- Niter bush (Bot.), a genus (Nitraria) of thorny shrubs bearing
edible berries, and growing in the saline plains of Asia and Northern
Africa.

NITHING
Nith"ing, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Niding.

NITID
Nit"id, a. Etym: [L. nitidus, fr. nitere. See 3d Neat.]

1. Bright; lustrous; shining. [R.] Boyle.

2. Gay; spruce; fine; -- said of persons. [R.] T. Reeve.

NITRANILIC
Ni`tra*nil"ic, a. Etym: [Nitro- + chloranil + -ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex organic acid
produced as a white crystalline substance by the action of nitrous
acid on hydroquinone.

NITRANILINE
Ni*tran"i*line ( or ), n. Etym: [Nitro- + aniline.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of nitro derivatives of aniline. In general
they are yellow crystalline substances.

NITRATE
Ni"trate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. nitrate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of nitric acid. Nitrate of silver, a white crystalline
salt (AgNO3), used in photography and as a cauterizing agent; --
called also lunar caustic.

NITRATED
Ni"tra*ted, a.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined, or impregnated, with nitric acid, or some of its
compounds.

2. (Photog.)

Defn: Prepared with nitrate of silver.

NITRATINE
Ni"tra*tine, n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in transparent crystals, usually of a
white, sometimes of a reddish gray, or lemon-yellow, color; native
sodium nitrate. It is used in making nitric acid and for manure.
Called also soda niter.

NITRE
Ni"tre, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Niter.

NITRIARY
Ni"tri*a*ry, n. Etym: [See Niter.]

Defn: An artificial bed of animal matter for the manufacture of niter
by nitrification. See Nitrification, 2.

NITRIC
Ni"tric, a. Etym: [Cf. F. nitrique. See Niter.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrogen; specifically,
designating any one of those compounds in which, as contrasted with
nitrous compounds, the element has a higher valence; as, nitric
oxide; nitric acid. Nitric acid, a colorless or yellowish liquid
obtained by distilling a nitrate with sulphuric acid. It is
powerfully corrosive, being a strong acid, and in decomposition a
strong oxidizer.
 -- Nitric anhydride, a white crystalline oxide of nitrogen (N2O5),
called nitric pentoxide, and regarded as the anhydride of nitric
acid.
 -- Nitric oxide, a colorless poisous gas (NO) obtained by treating
nitric acid with copper. On contact with the air or with oxygen, it
becomes reddish brown from the formation of nitric dioxide or
peroxide.

NITRIDE
Ni"tride ( or ), n. Etym: [fromNitrogen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of nitrogen with a more metallic element or
radical; as, boric nitride.

NITRIFEROUS
Ni*trif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Niter + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing niter; yielding, or containing, niter.

NITRIFICATION
Ni`tri*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. nitrification. see Nitrify.]

1. (Chem.)
(a) The act, process, or result of combining with nitrogen or some of
its compounds.
(b) The act or process of oxidizing nitrogen or its compounds so as
to form nitrous or nitric acid.

2. A process of oxidation, in which nitrogenous vegetable and animal
matter in the presence of air, moisture, and some basic substances,
as lime or alkali carbonate, is converted into nitrates.

Note: The process is going on at all times in porous soils and in
water contaminated with nitrogenous matter, and is supposed to be due
to the presence of an organized ferment or ferments, called
nitrification ferments. In former times the process was extensively
made use of in the production of saltpeter.

NITRIFIER
Ni"tri*fi`er, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An agent employed in nitrification.

NITRIFY
Ni"tri*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nitrified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Nitrifying.] Etym: [Niter + -fy: cf. F. nitrifer. See Niter.] (Chem.)

Defn: To combine or impregnate with nitrogen; to convert, by
oxidation, into nitrous or nitric acid; to subject to, or produce by,
nitrification.

NITRILE
Ni"trile ( or ), n. Etym: [See Nitro-.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of cyanogen compounds; particularly, one of
those cyanides of alcohol radicals which, by boiling with acids or
alkalies, produce a carboxyl acid, with the elimination of the
nitrogen as ammonia.

Note: The nitriles are named with reference to the acids produced by
their decomposition, thus, hydrocyanic acid is formic nitrile, and
methyl cyanide is acetic nitrile.

NITRITE
Ni"trite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. nitrite. See Niter.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of nitrous acid. Amyl nitrite, a yellow oily volatile
liquid, used in medicine as a depressant and a vaso-dilator. Its
inhalation produces an instantaneous flushing of the face.

NITRO-
Ni"tro- (.

1. A combining form or an adjective denoting the presence of niter.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (used also adjectively) designating certain
compounds of nitrogen or of its acids, as nitrohydrochloric,
nitrocalcite; also, designating the group or radical NO2, or its
compounds, as nitrobenzene. Nitro group, the radical NO2; -- called
also nitroxyl.

NITROBENZENE
Ni`tro*ben"zene ( or ), n. Etym: [Nitro- + benzene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow aromatic liquid (C6H5.NO2), produced by the action of
nitric acid on benzene, and called from its odor imitation oil of
bitter almonds, or essence of mirbane. It is used in perfumery, and
is manufactured in large quantities in the preparation of aniline.
Fornerly called also nitrobenzol.

NITROBENZOL; NITROBENZOLE
Ni`tro*ben"zol, Ni`tro*ben"zole, (, n.

Defn: See Nitrobenzene.

NITROCALCITE
Ni`tro*cal"cite, n. Etym: [Nitro- + calcite.] (Min.)

Defn: Nitrate of calcium, a substance having a grayish white color,
occuring in efforescences on old walls, and in limestone caves,
especially where there exists decaying animal matter.

NITROCARBOL
Ni`tro*car"bol, n. Etym: [Nitro- + carbon + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Nitromethane.

NITROCELLULOSE
Ni`tro*cel"lu*lose`, n. Etym: [Nitro- + cellulose.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Gun cotton, under Gun.

NITRO-CHLOROFORM
Ni`tro-chlo"ro*form, n. Etym: [Nitro- + chloroform.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Chlorpicrin.

NITROFORM
Ni"tro*form, n. Etym: [Nitro- + formyl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitro derivative of methane, analogous to chloroform,
obtained as a colorless oily or crystalline substance, CH.(NO2)3,
quite explosive, and having well-defined acid properties.

NITROGELATIN
Ni`tro*gel"a*tin, n. Etym: [Nitro- + gelatin.]

Defn: An explosive consisting of gun cotton and camphor dissolved in
nitroglycerin. [Written also nitrogelatine.]

NITROGEN
Ni`tro*gen, n. Etym: [L. nitrum natron + -gen: cf. F. nitrogène. See
Niter.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless nonmetallic element, tasteless and odorless,
comprising four fifths of the atmosphere by volume. It is chemically
very inert in the free state, and as such is incapable of supporting
life (hence the name azote still used by French chemists); but it
forms many important compounds, as ammonia, nitric acid, the
cyanides, etc, and is a constituent of all organized living tissues,
animal or vegetable. Symbol N. Atomic weight 14. It was formerly
regarded as a permanent noncondensible gas, but was liquefied in 1877
by Cailletet of Paris, and Pictet of Geneva.

NITROGENIZE
Ni"tro*gen*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nitrogenized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Nitrogenizing.] (Chem.)

Defn: To combine, or impregnate, with nitrogen or its compounds.

NITROGENOUS
Ni*trog"e*nous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: of, pertaining to, or resembling, nitrogen; as, a nitrogenous
principle; nitrogenous compounds. Nitrogenous foods. See 2d Note
under Food, n., 1.

NITROGLYCERIN
Ni`tro*glyc"er*in, n. Etym: [Nitro- + glycerinn.] (Chem.)

Defn: A liquid appearing like a heavy oil, colorless or yellowish,
and consisting of a mixture of several glycerin salts of nitric acid,
and hence more properly called glycerin nitrate. It is made by the
action of nitric acid on glycerin in the presence of sulphuric acid.
It is extremely unstable and terribly explosive. A very dilute
solution is used in medicine as a neurotic under the name of glonion.
[Written also nitroglycerine.]

Note: A great number of explosive compounds have been produced by
mixing nitroglycerin with different substances; as, dynamite, or
giant powder, nitroglycerin mixed with siliceous earth;
lithofracteur, nitroglycerin with gunpowder, or with sawdust and
nitrate of sodium or barium; Colonia powder, gunpowder with
nitroglycerin; dualin, nitroglycerin with sawdust, or with sawdust
and nitrate of potassium and some other substances; lignose, wood
fiber and nitroglycerin.

NITROHYDROCHLORIC
Ni`tro*hy`dro*chlo"ric, a. Etym: [Nitro- + hydrochloric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitric and hydrochloric
acids. Nitrohydrochloric acid, a mixture of nitric and hydrochloric
acids, usually in the proportion of one part of the former to three
of the latter, and remarkable for its solvent action on gold and
platinum; -- called also nitromuriatic acid, and aqua regia.

NITROL
Ni"trol, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of hydrocarbons containing the nitro and
the nitroso or isonitroso group united to the same carbon atom.

NITROLEUM
Ni*tro"le*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. nitrum natron + oleum oil.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Nitroglycerin.

NITROLIC
Ni*trol"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: of, derived from, or designating, a nitrol; as, a nitrolic
acid.

NITROMAGNESITE
Ni`tro*mag"ne*site, n. Etym: [Nitro- + magnesite.] (Chem.)

Defn: Nitrate of magnesium, a saline efflorescence closely resembling
nitrate of calcium.

NITROMETER
Ni*trom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Nitro- + -meter: cf. F. nitromètre.] (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus for determining the amount of nitrogen or some of
its compounds in any substance subjected to analysis; an azotometer.

NITROMETHANE
Ni`tro*meth"ane, n. Etym: [Nitro- + methane.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitro derivative of methane obtained as a mobile liquid; --
called also nitrocarbol.

NITROMURIATIC
Ni`tro*mu`ri*at"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. nitromuriatique. See Nitro-, and
Muriatic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or composed of, nitric acid and muriatic
acid; nitrohydrochloric. See Nitrohydrochloric.

NITROPHNOL
Ni`tro*ph"nol, n. Etym: [Nitro- + phenol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of nitro derivatives of phenol. They are
yellow oily or crystalline substances and have well-defined acid
properties, as picric acid.

NITROPRUSSIC
Ni`tro*prus"sic ( or , a. Etym: [Nitro- + prussic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a complex acid
called nitroprussic acid, obtained indirectly by the action of nitric
acid on potassium ferrocyanide (yellow prussiate), as a red
crystalline unstable substance. It forms salts called nitroprussides,
which give a rich purple color with alkaline subphides.

NITROPRUSSIDE
Ni`tro*prus"side, n.

Defn: See Nitroprussic.

NITROQUINOL
Ni`tro*qui"nol, n. Etym: [Nitro- + quine + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical nitro derivative of quinol or hydroquinone, not
known in the free state, but forming a well defined series of
derivatives.

NITROSACCHARIN
Ni`tro*sac"cha*rin, n. Etym: [Nitro- + saccharin.] (Chem.)

Defn: An explosive nitro derivative of certain sugars, analogous to
nitroglycerin, gun cotton, etc.

NITROSALICYLIC
Ni`tro*sal`i*cyl"ic, a. Etym: [Nitro- + salicylic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a nitro derivative of
salicylic acid, called also anilic acid.

NITROSE
Ni*trose", a. (Chem.)

Defn: See Nitrous.

NITROSO-
Ni*tro"so-

Defn: (. (Chem.) A prefix (also used adjectively) designating the
group or radical NO, called the nitroso group, or its compounds.

NITROSYL
Ni*tro"syl, n. Etym: [Nitroso- + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: the radical NO, called also the nitroso group. The term is
sometimes loosely used to designate certain nitro compounds; as,
nitrosyl sulphuric acid. Used also adjectively.

NITROSYLIC
Ni`tro*syl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrosyl; as, nitrosylic
acid.

NITROUS
Ni"trous, a. Etym: [L. nitrosus full of natron: cf. F. nitreux. See
Niter.]

1. Of, pertaining to, or containing, niter; of the quality of niter,
or resembling it.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of those compounds
in which nitrogen has a relatively lower valence as contrasted with
nitric compounds. Nitrous acid (Chem.), a hypothetical acid of
nitrogen HNO2, not known in the free state, but forming a well known
series of salts, viz., the nitrites.
 -- Nitrous oxide. See Laughing gas.

NITROXYL
Ni*trox"yl, n. Etym: [Nitro- + oxygen + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The group NO2, usually called the nitro group.

NITRUM
Ni"trum, n. Etym: [L., natron. See Niter.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: Niter. Nitrum flammans Etym: [L., flaming niter] (Old Chem.),
ammonium nitrate; -- probably so called because it deflagerates when
suddenly heated.

NITRY
Ni"try, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Nitrous. [Obs.]

NITRYL
Ni"tryl, n. Etym: [Nitro- + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A name sometimes given to the nitro group or radical.

NITTER
Nit"ter, n. Etym: [From Nit.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The horselouse; an insect that deposits nits on horses.

NITTILY
Nit"ti*ly, adv.

Defn: Lousily. [Obs.] Haywar

NITTINGS
Nit"tings, n. pl. Etym: [Prob. from Nit.] (Mining)

Defn: The refuse of good ore. Raymond.

NITTY
Nit"ty, a.

Defn: Full of nits. B. Jonson.

NITTY
Nit"ty, a. Etym: [L. nitidus. See Nitid.]

Defn: Shining; elegant; spruce. [Obs.] "O sweet, nitty youth."
Marston.

NIVAL
Ni"val, a. Etym: [L. nivalis, fr. nix, nivis, snow.]

Defn: Abounding with snow; snowy. [Obs.] Johnson.

NIVEOUS
Niv"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. niveus, fr. nix, nivis, snow.]

Defn: Snowy; resembling snow; partaking of the qualities of snow. Sir
T. Browne.

NIVOSE
Ni`vose", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. nix. nivis, snow.]

Defn: The fourth month of the French republican calendar [1792-1806].
It commenced December 21, and ended January 19. See VendÉmiaire.

NIX
Nix, n.; fem. Nixe (. Etym: [G. Cf. 1st Nick.] (Teut. Myth.)

Defn: One of a class of water spirits, commonly described as of a
mischievous disposition.
The treacherous nixes who entice men to a watery death. Tylor.

NIXIE
Nix"ie, n.

Defn: See Nix.

NIXIE CLERK
Nixie clerk.

Defn: A post-office clerk in charge of the nixies.

NIZAM
Ni*zam", n. Etym: [Hind. & Ar. nizam order, a ruler, fr. Ar. nazama
arrange, govern.]

Defn: The title of the native sovereigns of Hyderabad, in India,
since 1719.

NO
No, a. Etym: [OE. no, non, the same word as E. none; cf. E. a, an.
See None.]

Defn: Not any; not one; none.
Let there be no strife ... between me and thee. Gen. xiii. 8.
That goodness is no name, and happiness no dream. Byron.

Note: In Old England before a vowel the form non or noon was used.
"No man." "Noon apothercary." Chaucer.

NO
No, adv. Etym: [OE. no, na, AS. na; ne not + a ever. AS. ne is akin
to OHG. ni, Goth. ni, Russ. ne, Ir., Gael. & W. ni, L. ne, gr. nh (in
comp.), Skr. na, and also to E. prefix un-. sq. root 193. See Aye,
and cf. Nay, Not, Nice, Nefarious.]

Defn: Nay; not; not at all; not in any respect or degree; -- a word
expressing negation, denial, or refusal. Before or after another
negative, no is emphatic.
We do no otherwise than we are willed. Shak.
I am perplx'd and doubtful whether or no I dare accept this your
congratulation. Coleridge.
There is none righteous, no, not one. Rom. iii. 10.
No! Nay, Heaven forbid. Coleridge.

NO
No, n.; pl. Noes (.

1. A refusal by use of the wordd no; a denial.

2. A negative vote; one who votes in the negative; as, to call for
the ayes and noes; the noes have it.

NOACHIAN
No*a"chi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the patriarch Noah, or to his time.

NOAH
No"ah, n. Etym: [Heb. Noakh rest.]

Defn: A patriarch of Biblical history, in the time of the Deluge.
Noah's ark. (a) (Zoöl.) A marine bivalve shell (Arca Noæ), which
somewhat resembles an ark, or ship, in form. (b) A child's toy,
consisting of an ark-shaped box containing many different wooden
animals.

NOB
Nob, n. Etym: [Cf. Knob.]

Defn: The head. [Low]

NOB
Nob, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. noble.]

Defn: A person in a superior position in life; a nobleman. [Slang]

NOBBILY
Nob"bi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a nobby manner. [Slang]

NOBBLER
Nob"bler, n.

Defn: A dram of spirits. [Australia]

NOBBY
Nob"by, a. Etym: [From 2d Nob.]

Defn: Stylish; modish; elegant; showy; aristocratic; fashionable.
[Slang]

NOBEL PRIZES
No*bel" prizes.

Defn: Prizes for the encouragement of men and women who work for the
interests of humanity, established by the will of A. B. Nobel (1833-
96), the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who left his entire estate for
this purpose. They are awarded yearly for what is regarded as the
most important work during the year in physics, chemistry, medicine
or physiology, idealistic literature, and service in the interest of
peace. The prizes, averaging $40,000 each, were first awarded in
1901.

NOBERT'S LINES
No"bert's lines. [After F. A. Nobert, German manufacturer in
Pomerania.]

Defn: Fine lines ruled on glass in a series of groups of different
closeness of line, and used to test the power of a microscope.

NOBILIARY
No*bil"ia*ry, a. Etym: [F. nobiliare. See Noble.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the nobility. Fitzed. Hall.

NOBILIARY
No*bil"ia*ry, n.

Defn: A history of noble families.

NOBILIFY
No*bil"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. nobilis noble + -fy.]

Defn: To make noble; to nobiliate. [Obs.]

NOBILI'S RINGS
No"bi*li's rings. [After Leopoldo Nobili, an Italian physicist who
first described them in 1826.] (Physics)

Defn: Colored rings formed upon a metal plate by the electrolytic
disposition of copper, lead peroxide, etc. They may be produced by
touching with a pointed zinc rod a silver plate on which is a
solution of copper sulphate.

NOBILITATE
No*bil"i*tate, v. t. Etym: [L. nobilitatus, p.p. of nobilitare.]

Defn: To make noble; to ennoble; to exalt. [Obs.]

NOBILITATION
No*bil`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. nobilitation.]

Defn: The act of making noble. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

NOBILITY
No*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. nobilitas: cf. OF. nobilité. See Noble.]

1. The quality or state of being noble; superiority of mind or of
character; commanding excellence; eminence.
Though she hated Amphialus, yet the nobility of her courage prevailed
over it. Sir P. Sidney.
They thought it great their sovereign to control, And named their
pride nobility of soul. Dryden.

2. The state of being of high rank or noble birth; patrician dignity;
antiquity of family; distinction by rank, station, or title, whether
inherited or conferred.
I fell on the same argument of preferring virtue to nobility of blood
and titles, in the story of Sigismunda. Dryden.

3. Those who are noble; the collictive body of nobles or titled
persons in a stste; the aristocratic and patrician class; the
peerage; as, the English nobility.

NOBLE
No"ble, a. [Compar. Nobler; superl. Noblest.] Etym: [F. noble, fr. L.
nobilis that can be or is known, well known, famous, highborn, noble,
fr.noscere to know. See know.]

1. Possessing eminence, elevation, dignity, etc.; above whatever is
low, mean, degrading, or dishonorable; magnanimous; as, a noble
nature or action; a noble heart.
Statues, with winding ivy crowned, belong To nobler poets for a
nobler song. Dryden.

2. Grand; stately; magnificent; splendid; as, a noble edifice.

3. Of exalted rank; of or pertaining to the nobility; distinguished
from the masses by birth, station, or title; highborn; as, noble
blood; a noble personage.

Note: Noble is used in the formation of self-explaining compounds;
as, noble-born, noble-hearted, noble-minded. Noble metals (Chem.),
silver, gold, and platinum; -- so called from their freedom from
oxidation and permanence in air. Copper, mercury, aluminium,
palladium, rhodium, iridium, and osmium are sometimes included.

Syn.
 -- Honorable; worthy; dignified; elevated; exalted; superior;
sublime; great; eminent; illustrious; renowned; stately; splendid;
magnificent; grand; magnanimous; generous; liberal; free.

NOBLE
No"ble, n.

1. A person of rank above a commoner; a nobleman; a peer.

2. An English money of account, and, formerly, a gold coin, of the
value of 6 s. 8 d. sterling, or about $1.61.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European fish; the lyrie.

NOBLE
No"ble, v. t.

Defn: To make noble; to ennoble. [Obs.]
Thou nobledest so far forth our nature. Chaucer.

NOBLEMAN
No"ble*man, n.; pl. Noblemen (.

Defn: One of the nobility; a noble; a peer; one who enjoys rank above
a commoner, either by virtue of birth, by office, or by patent.

NOBLE-MINDED
No"ble-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Having a noble mind; honorable; magnanimous.
 -- No"ble-mind`ed*ness, n.

NOBLENESS
No"ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being noble; greatness; dignity;
magnanimity; elevation of mind, character, or station; nobility;
grandeur; stateliness.
His purposes are full honesty, nobleness, and integrity. Jer. Taylor.

NOBLESS; NOBLESSE
No*bless", No*blesse", n. Etym: [F. noblesse. See Noble.]

1. Dignity; greatness; noble birth or condition. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Spenser. B. Jonson.

2. The nobility; persons of noble rank collectively, including males
and females. Dryden.

NOBLEWOMAN
No"ble*wom`an, n.; pl. Noblewomen (.

Defn: A female of noble rank; a peeress.

NOBLEY
No"bley, n. Etym: [OF. nobleie.]

1. The body of nobles; the nobility. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Noble birth; nobility; dignity. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NOBLY
No"bly, adv.

1. Of noble extraction; as, nobly born or descended.

2. In a noble manner; with greatness of soul; heroically; with
magnanimity; as, a deed nobly done.

3. Splendidly; magnificently.

Syn.
 -- Illustriously; honorably; magnanimously; heroically; worthly;
eminently; grandly.

NOBODY
No"bod*y, n.; pl. Nobodies. Etym: [No, a. + body.]

1. No person; no one; not anybody.

2. Hence: A person of no influence or importance; an insignificant or
contemptible person. [Colloq.]

NOCAKE
No"cake, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. Indian nookhik meal. Palfrey.]

Defn: Indian corn parched, and beaten to powder, -- used for food by
the Northern American Indians.

NOCENT
No"cent, a. Etym: [L. nocens, p.pr. of nocere to hurt. See Nuisance,
Noxious.]

1. Doing hurt, or having a tendency to hurt; hurtful; mischievous;
noxious; as, nocent qualities. I. Watts.

2. Guilty; -- the opposite of innocent. [Obs.] Foxe.

NOCENT
No"cent, n.

Defn: A criminal. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

NOCENTLY
No"cent*ly, adv.

Defn: Hurtfully; injuriosly. [R.]

NOCIVE
No"cive, a. Etym: [L. nocivus, fr. nocere to hurt.]

Defn: Hurtful; injurious. [R.] Hooker.

NOCK
Nock, n. Etym: [See Notch.]

1. A notch.
He took his arrow by the nock. Chapman.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The upper fore corner of a boom sail or of a trysail.

NOCK
Nock, v. t.

Defn: To notch; to fit to the string, as an arrow; to string, as a
bow. Chapman.

NOCTAMBULATION
Noc*tam`bu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. nox, noctis, night + ambulare to
walk: cf. F. noctambulation.]

Defn: Somnambulism; walking in sleep. Quain.

NOCTAMBULISM
Noc*tam"bu*lism, n.

Defn: Somnambulism.

NOCTAMBULIST
Noc*tam"bu*list, n.

Defn: A somnambulist.

NOCTAMBULO
Noc*tam"bu*lo, n.

Defn: A noctambulist. [Obs.]

NOCTIDIAL
Noc*tid"i*al, a. Etym: [L. nox, noctos, night + dies day.]

Defn: Comprising a night and a day; a noctidial day. [R.] Holder.

NOCTIFEROUS
Noc*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. noctifer; nox, noctis + ferre to bring.]

Defn: Bringing night. [Obs.] Johnson.

NOCTILIONID
Noc*til"i*o*nid, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American bat of the genus Noctilio, having cheek
pouches and large incisor teeth.

NOCTILUCA
Noc`ti*lu"ca, n.; pl. NoctilucÆ. Etym: [L. noctiluca something that
shines by night, fr. nox, noctis, night + lucere to shine, lux
light.]

1. (Old Chem.)

Defn: That which shines at night; -- a fanciful name for phosphorus.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine flagellate Infusoria, remarkable for their
unusually large size and complex structure, as well as for their
phosphorescence. The brilliant diffuse phosphorescence of the sea is
often due to myriads of Noctilucæ.

NOCTILUCIN
Noc*ti*lu"cin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fatlike substance in certain marine animals, to which they
owe their phosphorescent properties.

NOCTILUCINE
Noc`ti*lu"cine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Noctiluca.

NOCTILUCOUS
Noc`ti*lu"cous, a.

Defn: Shining in the night.

NOCTIVAGANT
Noc*tiv"a*gant, a. Etym: [L. nox, noctis, night + vagans, p.pr. of
vagari to wander about.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Going about in the night; night-wandering.

NOCTIVAGATION
Noc*tiv`a*ga"tion, n.

Defn: A roving or going about in the night. Gayton.

NOCTIVAGOUS
Noc*tiv"a*gous, a. Etym: [L. noctivagus; nox, noctis + vagus
wandering.]

Defn: Noctivagant.

NOCTOGRAPH
Noc"to*graph, n. Etym: [L. nox, noctis, night + -graph.]

1. A kind of writing frame for the blind.

2. An instrument or register which records the presence of watchmen
on their beats. Knight.

NOCTUARY
Noc"tu*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. noctu by night.]

Defn: A record of what passes in the night; a nightly journal; --
distinguished from diary. [R.] Addison.

NOCTUID
Noc"tu*id, n. Etym: [From L. nox, noctis, night.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous moths of the family Noctuidæ, or
Noctuælitæ, as the cutworm moths, and armyworm moths; -- so called
because they fly at night.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the noctuids, or family Noctuidæ.

NOCTULE
Noc"tule, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. noctua a night owl, fr. nox, noctis,
night.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large European bat (Vespertilio, or Noctulina, altivolans).

NOCTURN
Noc"turn, n. Etym: [F. nocturne, fr. L. nocturnus. See Nocturnal, and
cf. Nocturne.]

1. An office of devotion, or act of religious service, by night.

2. One of the portions into which the Psalter was divided, each
consisting of nine psalms, designed to be used at a night service.
Hook.

NOCTURNAL
Noc*tur"nal, a. Etym: [L. nocturnalis, nocturnus, fr. nox, noctis,
night. See Night, and cf. Nocturn.]

1. Of, pertaining to, done or occuring in, the night; as, nocturnal
darkness, cries, expedition, etc.; -- opposed to Ant: diurnal.
Dryden.

2. Having a habit of seeking food or moving about at night; as,
nocturnal birds and insects.

NOCTURNAL
Noc*tur"nal, n.

Defn: An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of the
stars, etc., at sea. I. Watts.

NOCTURNALLY
Noc*tur"nal*ly, adv.

Defn: By night; nightly.

NOCTURNE
Noc*turne", n. Etym: [F. See Nocturn.] (Mus.)

Defn: A night piece, or serenade. The name is now used for a certain
graceful and expressive form of instrumental composition, as the
nocturne for orchestra in Mendelsohn's "Midsummer-Night's Dream"
music.

NOCUMENT
Noc"u*ment, n. Etym: [LL. nocumentum, fr. L. nocere to hurt.]

Defn: Harm; injury; detriment. [Obs.]

NOCUOUS
Noc"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. nocuus, fr. nocere to hurt.]

Defn: Hurtful; noxious. [R.] -- Noc"u*ous*ly, adv. [R.]

NOD
Nod, v. i. Etym: [OE. nodden; cf. OHG. kn, genuot, to shake, and E.
nudge.]

1. To bend or incline the upper part, with a quick motion; as,
nodding plumes.

2. To incline the head with a quick motion; to make a slight bow; to
make a motion of assent, of salutation, or of drowsiness, with the
head; as, to nod at one.

3. To be drowsy or dull; to be careless.
Nor is it Homer nods, but we that dream. Pope.

NOD
Nod, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nodded; p. pr. & vb. n. Nodding.]

1. To incline or bend, as the head or top; to make a motion of
assent, of salutation, or of drowsiness with; as, to nod the head.

2. To signify by a nod; as, to nod approbation.

3. To cause to bend. [Poetic]
By every wind that nods the mountain pine. Keats.

NOD
Nod, n.

1. A dropping or bending forward of the upper oart or top of
anything.
Like a drunken sailor on a mast, Ready with every nod to tumble down.
Shak.

2. A quick or slight downward or forward motion of the head, in
assent, in familiar salutation, in drowsiness, or in giving a signal,
or a command.
A look or a nod only ought to correct them [the children] when they
do amiss. Locke.
Nations obey my word and wait my nod. Prior.
The land of Nod, sleep.

NODAL
Nod"al, a.

Defn: Of the nature of, or relating to, a node; as, a nodal point.
Nodal line, Nodal point, in a vibrating plate or cord, that line or
point which remains at rest while the other parts of the body are in
a state of vibration.

NODATED
No"da*ted, a. Etym: [L. nodatus, p.p. of nodare to make knotty, fr.
nodus knot. See Node.]

Defn: Knotted. Nodated hyperbola (Geom.), a certain curve of the
third order having two branches which cross each other, forming a
node.

NODATION
No*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. nodatio knottiness.]

Defn: Act of making a knot, or state of being knotted. [R.]

NODDER
Nod"der, n.

Defn: One who nods; a drowsy person.

NODDING
Nod"ding, a.

Defn: Curved so that the apex hangs down; having the top bent
downward.

NODDLE
Nod"dle, n. Etym: [OE. nodil, nodle; perh. fr. nod, because the head
is the nodding part of the body, or perh. akin to E. knot; cf. Prov.
E. nod the nape of the neck.]

1. The head; -- used jocosely or contemptuously.
Come, master, I have a project in my noddle. L'Estrange.

2. The back part of the head or neck. [Obs.]
For occasion ... turneth a bald noddle, after she hath presented her
locks in front, and no hold taken. Bacon.

NODDY
Nod"dy, n.; pl. Noddies. Etym: [Prob. fr. nod to incline the head,
either as in assent, or from drowsiness.]

1. A simpleton; a fool. L'Estrange.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any tern of the genus Anous, as A. stolidus.
(b) The arctic fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis). Sometimes also applied to
other sea birds.

3. An old game at cards. Halliwell.

4. A small two-wheeled one-horse vehicle.

5. An inverted pendulum consisting of a short vertical flat spring
which supports a rod having a bob at the top; -- used for detecting
and measuring slight horizontal vibrations of a body to which it is
attached.

NODE
Node, n. Etym: [L. nodus; perh. akin to E. knot. Cf. Noose, Nowed.]

1. A knot, a knob; a protuberance; a swelling.

2. Specifically:
(a) (Astron.) One of the two points where the orbit of a planet, or
comet, intersects the ecliptic, or the orbit of a satellite
intersects the plane of the orbit of its primary.
(b) (Bot.) The joint of a stem, or the part where a leaf or several
leaves are inserted.
(c) (Dialing) A hole in the gnomon of a dial, through which passes
the ray of light which marks the hour of the day, the parallels of
the sun's declination, his place in the ecliptic, etc.
(d) (Geom.) The point at which a curve crosses itself, being a double
point of the curve. See Crunode, and Acnode.
(e) (Mech.) The point at which the lines of a funicular machine meet
from different angular directions; -- called also knot. W. R.
Johnson.
(f) (poet.) The knot, intrigue, or plot of a piece.
(g) (Med.) A hard concretion or incrustation which forms upon bones
attacked with rheumatism, gout, or syphilis; sometimes also, a
swelling in the neighborhood of a joint. Dunglison.
(h) (Mus) One of the fixed points of a sonorous string, when it
vibrates by aliquot parts, and produces the harmonic tones; nodal
line or point.
(i) (Zoöl.) A swelling. Ascending node (Astron.), the node at which
the body is passing northerly, marked with the symbol &astascending;,
called the Dragon's head. Called also northern node.
 -- Descending node, the node at which the body is moving
southwardly, marked thus &astdescending;, called Dragon's tail.
 -- Line of nodes, a straight line joining the two nodes of an orbit.

NODICAL
Nod"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the nodes; from a node to the same node
again; as, the nodical revolutions of the moon. Nodical month. See
Lunar month, under Month.

NODOSARINE
No`do*sa"rine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling in form or structure a foraminiferous shell of the
genus Nodosaria.
 -- n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A foraminifer of the genus Nodosaria or of an allied genus.

NODOSE
No*dose", a. Etym: [L. nodosus, fr. nodus knot.]

1. Knotty; having numerous or conspicuous nodes.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having nodes or prominences; having the alternate joints
enlarged, as the antennæ of certain insects.

NODOSITY
No*dos"i*ty (, n. Etym: [L. nodositas.]

1. The quality of being knotty or nodose; resemblance to a node or
swelling; knottiness. Holland.

2. A knot; a node.

NODOSOUS; NODOUS
No*do"sous, No"dous, a.

Defn: Nodose; knotty; knotted. [Obs.]

NODULAR
Nod"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. nodulaire.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or in the form of, a nodule or knot.

NODULE
Nod"ule, n. Etym: [L. nodulus, dim. of nodus knot: cf. F. nodule.]

Defn: A rounded mass or irregular shape; a little knot or lump.

NODULED
Nod"uled, a.

Defn: Having little knots or lumps.

NODULOSE; NODULOUS
Nod"u*lose`, Nod"u*lous, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Having small nodes or knots; diminutively nodose.

NOEL
No"el, n. Etym: [F. noël, L. natalis birthday, fr. natalis natal. See
Natal.]

Defn: Same as Nowel.

NOEMATACHOGRAPH
No*e`ma*tach"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for determining and registering the duration of
more or less complex operations of the mind. Dunglison.

NOEMATIC; NOEMATICAL
No`e*mat"ic, No`e*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Noetic.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the understanding. [Obs.] Cudworth.

NOEMICS
No*e"mics, n. Etym: [Gr. Noetic.]

Defn: The science of the understanding; intellectual science.

NOETIAN
No*e"tian, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of the followers of Noetus, who lived in the third century.
He denied the distinct personality of the Father, Son, and Holy
Ghost.

NOETIC; NOETICAL
No*et"ic, No*et"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the intellect; intellectual.
I would employ the word noetic to express all those cognitions which
originate in the mind itself. Sir W. Hamilton.

NOF
Nof. Etym: [Contr. fr. ne of.]

Defn: Not of; nor of. [Obs.]

NOG
Nog, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. noggin.]

1. A noggin.

2. A kind of strong ale. Halliwell.

NOG
Nog, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

1. A wooden block, of the size of a brick, built into a wall, as a
hold for the nails of woodwork.

2. One of the square logs of wood used in a pile to support the roof
of a mine.

3. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A treenail to fasten the shores.

NOG
Nog, v. t. Etym: [From 2d Nog.]

1. To fill in, as between scantling, with brickwork.

2. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: To fasten, as shores, with treenails.

NOGGEN
Nog"gen, a. Etym: [Prop., made of hemp, fr. Prov. E. nogs hemp.]

Defn: Made of hemp; hence, hard; rough; harsh. [Obs.] Johnson.

NOGGIN
Nog"gin, n. Etym: [Ir. noigin, or Gael. noigean. Cf. lst Nog.]

1. A small mug or cup.

2. A measure equivalent to a gill. [Prov. Eng.]

NOGGING
Nog"ging, n. Etym: [From Nog, v. t.]

Defn: Rough brick masonry used to fill in the interstices of a wooden
frame, in building.

NOGHT
Noght, adv.

Defn: Not. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NOIANCE
Noi"ance, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. OE. anoiance.] [Written also
noyance.]

Defn: Annoyance. [Obs.] Tusser.

NOIE
Noie, v. t.

Defn: To annoy. See Noy. [Obs.]

NOIER
Noi"er, n.

Defn: An annoyer. [Obs.] Tusser.

NOIL
Noil, n. [Prob. fr. Prov. E. oil, ile, ail, a beard of grain (OE.
eil, AS. egl) combined with the indef. article, an oil becoming a
noil.]

Defn: A short or waste piece or knot of wool separated from the
longer staple by combing; also, a similar piece or shred of waste
silk.

NOILS
Noils, n. pl. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Waste and knots of wool removed by the comb; combings.

NOINT
Noint, v. t.

Defn: To anoint. [Obs.] Sir T. North.

NOIOUS
Noi"ous, a.

Defn: Annoying; troublesome. [Obs.]

NOISE
Noise, n. Etym: [F. noise noisy strife, quarrel, brawl, fr. L. nausea
seasickness, sickness, disgust. See Nausea.]

1. Sound of any kind.
The heavens turn about in a most rapid motion without noise to us
perceived. Bacon.

Note: Noise is either a sound of too short a duration to be
determined, like the report of a cannon; or else it is a confused
mixture of many discordant sounds, like the rolling of thunder or the
noise of the waves. Nevertheless, the difference between sound and
noise is by no means precise. Ganot.

2. Especially, loud, confused, or senseless sound; clamor; din.

3. Loud or continuous talk; general talk or discussion; rumor;
report. "The noise goes." Shak.
What noise have we had about transplantation of diseases and
transfusion of blood! T. Baker.
Soerates lived in Athens during the great plague which has made so
much noise in all ages. Spectator.

4. Music, in general; a concert; also, a company of musicians; a
band. [Obs.] Milton.
The king has his noise of gypsies. B. Jonson.

Syn.
 -- Cry; outcry; clamor; din; clatter; uproar.

NOISE
Noise, v. i.

Defn: To sound; to make a noise. Milton.

NOISE
Noise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Noised; p pr. & vb. n. Noising.]

1. To spread by rumor or report.
All these sayings were noised abroad. Luke i. 65.

2. To disturb with noise. [Obs.] Dryden.

NOISEFUL
Noise"ful, a.

Defn: Loud; clamorous. [Obs.] Dryden.

NOISELESS
Noise"less, a.

Defn: Making, or causing, no noise or bustle; without noise; silent;
as, the noiseless foot of time.
So noiseless would I live. Dryden.
-- Noise"less*ly, adv.
 -- Noise"less*ness, n.

NOISETTE
Noi*sette", n. (Bot.)

Defn: A hybrid rose produced in 1817, by a French gardener, Noisette,
of Charleston, South Carolina, from the China rose and the musk rose.
It has given rise to many fine varieties, as the Lamarque, the
Marechal (or Marshal) Niel, and the Cloth of gold. Most roses of this
class have clustered flowers and are of vigorous growth. P.
Henderson.

NOISILY
Nois"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a noisy manner.

NOISINESS
Nois"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being noisy.

NOISOME
Noi"some, a. Etym: [For noysome, fr. noy for annoy. See Annoy.]

1. Noxious to health; hurtful; mischievous; unwholesome;
insalubrious; destructive; as, noisome effluvia. "Noisome
pestilence." Ps. xci. 3.

2. Offensive to the smell or other senses; disgusting; fetid. "Foul
breath is noisome." Shak.
 -- Noi"some*ly, adv.
 -- Noi"some*ness, n.

Syn.
 -- Noxious; unwholesome; insalubrious; mischievous; destructive.
 -- Noisome, Noxious. These words have to a great extent been
interchanged; but there is a tendency to make a distinction between
them, applying noxious to things that inflict evil directly; as, a
noxious plant, noxious practices, etc., and noisome to things that
operate with a remoter influence; as, noisome vapors, a noisome
pestilence, etc. Noisome has the additional sense of disqusting. A
garden may be free from noxious weeds or animals; but, if recently
covered with manure, it may be filled with a noisome smell.

NOISY
Nois"y, a. [Compar. Noisier; superl. Noisiest.] Etym: [From Noise.]

1. Making a noise, esp. a loud sound; clamorous; vociferous;
turbulent; boisterous; as, the noisy crowd.

2. Full of noise. "The noisy town." Dryden.

NOLDE
Nol"de. Etym: [Contr. fr. ne wolde.]

Defn: Would not. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NOLE
Nole, n. Etym: [See Noll.]

Defn: The head. [Obs.] Shak.

NOLI-ME-TANGERE
No"li-me-tan"ge*re, n. Etym: [L., touch me not.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) Any plant of a genus of herbs (Impatiens) having capsules which,
if touched when ripe, discharge their seeds.
 -- See Impatiens.
(b) The squirting cucumber. See under Cucumber.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A name formerly applied to several varieties of ulcerous
cutaneous diseases, but now restricted to Lupus exedens, an
ulcerative affection of the nose.

NOLITION
No*li"tion, n. Etym: [L. nolle not to will, to be unwilling; ne +
velle to will, to be willing.]

Defn: Adverse action of will; unwillingness; -- opposed to Ant:
volition.
A nolition and a direct enmity against the lust. Jer. Taylor.

NOLL
Noll, n. Etym: [OE. nol, AS. hnoll top; akin to OHG. hnol top, head.]

Defn: The head; the noddle. [Obs.]

NOLLEITY
Nol*le"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. nolle to be unwilling.]

Defn: The state of being unwilling; nolition. [R.]

NOLLE PROSEQUI
Nol"le pros"e*qui. Etym: [L., to be unwilling to prosecute.] (Law)

Defn: Will not prosecute; -- an entry on the record, denoting that a
plaintiff discontinues his suit, or the attorney for the public a
prosecution; either wholly, or as to some count, or as to some of
several defendants.

NOLO CONTENDERE
No"lo con*ten"de*re. Etym: [L., I do not wish to contend.] (Law)

Defn: A plea, by the defendant, in a criminal prosecution, which,
without admitting guilt, subjects him to all the consequences of a
plea of quilty.

NOL. PROS.; NOL PROS
Nol. pros.

Defn: An abbrev. of Nolle prosequi.

NOL-PROS
Nol`-pros", v. t. [imp. & p. p. -prossed; p. pr. & vb. n. -prossing.]

Defn: To discontinue by entering a nolle prosequi; to decline to
prosecute.

NOLT
Nolt, n. sing. & pl.

Defn: Neat cattle. [Prov. Eng.]

NOM
Nom, n. Etym: [F. See Noun.]

Defn: Name. Nom de guerre (, literally, war name; hence, a fictitious
name, or one assumed for a time.
 -- Nom de plume (, literally, pen name; hence, a name assumed by an
author as his or her signature.

NOMA
No"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Name.] (Med.)

Defn: See Canker, n., 1.

NOMAD
Nom"ad, n. Etym: [L. nomas, -adis, Gr. niman to take, and E. nimble:
cf. F. nomade. Cf. Astronomy, Economy, Nimble, Nemesis, Numb,
Number.]

Defn: One of a race or tribe that has no fixed location, but wanders
from place to place in search of pasture or game.

NOMAD
Nom"ad, a.

Defn: Roving; nomadic.

NOMADE
Nom"ade, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Nomad, n.

NOMADIAN
No*ma"di*an, n.

Defn: A nomad. [R.]

NOMADIC
No*mad"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Nomad.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to nomads, or their way of life; wandering;
moving from place to place for subsistence; as, a nomadic tribe.
 -- No*mad"ic*al*ly, adv.

NOMADISM
Nom"ad*ism, n.

Defn: The state of being a nomad.

NOMADIZE
Nom"ad*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Nomadized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Nomadizing.]

Defn: To lead the life of a nomad; to wander with flocks and herds
for the sake of finding pasturage.
The Vogules nomadize chiefly about the Rivers Irtish, Obi, Kama, and
Volga. W. Tooke.

NOMANCY
No"man*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. nomancie, nomance, abbrev. fr. onomancie.
See Onomancy.]

Defn: The art or practice of divining the destiny of persons by the
letters which form their names.

NO-MAN'S LAND
No"-man's` land`.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A space amidships used to keep blocks, ropes, etc.; a space on
a ship belonging to no one in particular to care for.

2. Fig.: An unclaimed space or time.
That no-man's land of twilight. W. Black.

NOMARCH
Nom"arch, n. Etym: [Gr. -arch.]

Defn: The chief magistrate of a nome or nomarchy.

NOMARCHY
Nom"arch*y, n.; pl. Nomarchies (.

Defn: A province or territorial division of a kingdom, under the rule
of a nomarch, as in modern Greece; a nome.

NOMBLES
Nom"bles, n. pl. Etym: [F. nombles, fr. L. lumbulus, dim. of lumbus a
loin. Cf. Numbles, Umbles, Humbles.]

Defn: The entrails of a deer; the umbles. [Written also numbles.]
Johnson.

NOMBRIL
Nom"bril, n. Etym: [F. nombril, for OF. lombril, i. e., ombril, with
the article, a dim. fr. L. umbilicus the navel. See Navel.] (Her.)

Defn: A point halfway between the fess point and the middle base
point of an escutcheon; -- called also navel point. See Escutcheon.

NOME
Nome, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A province or political division, as of modern Greece or ancient
Egypt; a nomarchy.

2. Any melody determined by inviolable rules. [Obs.]

NOME
Nome, n. Etym: [Cf. Binomial.] (Alg.) [Obs.]

Defn: See Term.

NOME; NOMEN
Nome, No"men, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Nim. Chaucer.

NOMENCLATOR
No"men*cla`tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. nomen name + calare to call. See
Name, and Calendar.]

1. One who calls persons or things by their names.

Note: In Rome, candidates for office were attended each by a
nomenclator, who informed the candidate of the names of the persons
whom they met and whose votes it was desirable to solicit.

2. One who gives names to things, or who settles and adjusts the
nomenclature of any art or science; also, a list or vocabulary of
technical names.

NOMENCLATRESS
No"men*cla`tress, n.

Defn: A female nomenclator.

NOMENCLATURAL
No`men*cla"tur*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining or according to a nomenclature.

NOMENCLATURE
No"men*cla`ture, n. Etym: [L. nomenclatura: cf. F. nomenclature. See
Nomenclator.]

1. A name. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. A vocabulary, dictionary, or glossary. [R.]

3. The technical names used in any particular branch of science or
art, or by any school or individual; as, the nomenclature of botany
or of chemistry; the nomenclature of Lavoisier and his associates.

NOMIAL
No"mi*al, n. Etym: [Cf. Binomial.] (Alg.)

Defn: A name or term.

NOMIC
Nom"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Customary; ordinary; -- applied to the usual English spelling,
in distinction from strictly phonetic methods. H Sweet.
 -- n.

Defn: Nomic spelling. A. J. Ellis.

NOMINAL
Nom"i*nal, a. Etym: [L. nominalis, fr. nomen, nominis, name. See
Name.]

1. Of or pertaining to a name or names; having to do with the literal
meaning of a word; verbal; as, a nominal definition. Bp. Pearson.

2. Existing in name only; not real; as, a nominal difference.
"Nominal attendance on lectures." Macaulay.

NOMINAL
Nom"i*nal, n.

1. A nominalist. [Obs.] Camden.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A verb formed from a noun.

3. A name; an appellation.
A is the nominal of the sixth note in the natural diatonic scale.
Moore (Encyc. of Music. )

NOMINALISM
Nom"i*nal*ism, n.

Defn: The principles or philosophy of the Nominalists.

NOMINALIST
Nom"i*nal*ist, n. (Metaph.)

Defn: One of a sect of philosophers in the Middle Ages, who adopted
the opinion of Roscelin, that general conceptions, or universals,
exist in name only. Reid.

NOMINALISTIC
Nom`i*nal*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Nominalists.

NOMINALIZE
Nom"i*nal*ize, v. t.

Defn: To convert into a noun. [Obs.]

NOMINALLY
Nom"i*nal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a nominal manner; by name; in name only; not in reality.
Burke.

NOMINATE
Nom"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nominated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Nominating.] Etym: [L. nominatus, p. p. of nominare to nominate, fr.
nomen name. See Name.]

1. To mention by name; to name. [Obs.]
To nominate them all, it is impossible. Shak.

2. To call; to entitle; to denominate. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. To set down in express terms; to state. [Obs.]
Is it so noiminated in the bond Shak.

4. To name, or designate by name, for an office or place; to appoint;
esp., to name as a candidate for an election, choice, or appointment;
to propose by name, or offer the name of, as a candidate for an
office or place.

NOMINATELY
Nom"i*nate*ly, adv.

Defn: By name; particularly; namely. [Obs.] Spelman.

NOMINATION
Nom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. nominatio: cf. F. nomination.]

1. The act of naming or nominating; designation of a person as a
candidate for office; the power of nominating; the state of being
nominated.
The nomination of persons to places being . . . a flower of his
crown, he would reserve to himself. Clarendon.

2. The denomination, or name. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

NOMINATIVAL
Nom`i*na*ti"val, a. (Gram.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the nominative case.

NOMINATIVE
Nom"i*na*tive, a. Etym: [L. nominativus belonging to a name,
nominative.] (Gram.)

Defn: Giving a name; naming; designating; -- said of that case or
form of a noun which stands as the subject of a finite verb.
 -- n.

Defn: The nominative case.

NOMINATIVELY
Nom"i*na*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a nominative; as a nominative.

NOMINATOR
Nom"i*na`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who nominates.

NOMINEE
Nom`i*nee", n. Etym: [See Nominate, and -ee.]

Defn: A person named, or designated, by another, to any office, duty,
or position; one nominated, or proposed, by others for office or for
election to office.

NOMINOR
Nom"i*nor`, n. Etym: [See Nominate, and -or.]

Defn: A nominator. [Obs.] Bentham.

NOMOCRACY
No*moc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -cracy, as in democracy.]

Defn: Government in accordance with a system of law. Milman.

NOMOGRAPHY
No*mog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A treatise on laws; an exposition of the form proper for laws.

NOMOLOGY
No*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

1. The science of law; legislation.

2. The science of the laws of the mind; rational psychology. Sir W.
Hamilton.

NOMOPELMOUS
Nom`o*pel"mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a separate and simple tendon to flex the first toe, or
hallux, as do passerine birds.

NOMOTHETE
Nom"o*thete, n. Etym: [Gr. nomothète.]

Defn: A lawgiver. [R.]

NOMOTHETIC; NOMOTHETICAL
Nom`o*thet"ic, Nom`o*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Legislative; enacting laws; as, a nomothetical power. [R.] Bp.
Barlow.

NON
Non, a.

Defn: No; not. See No, a. Chaucer.

NON-
Non-. Etym: [L. non, OL. noenu, noenum, fr. neoenum, lit., not one.
See None.]

Defn: A prefix used in the sense of not; un-; in-; as in
nonattention, or non-attention, nonconformity, nonmetallic, nonsuit.

Note: The prefix non- may be joined to the leading word by means of a
hyphen, or, in most cases, the hyphen may be dispensed with. The list
of words having the prefix non- could easily be lengthened.

NONABILITY
Non`a*bil"i*ty, n.

1. Want of ability.

2. (Law)

Defn: An exception taken against a plaintiff in a cause, when he is
unable legally to commence a suit.

NONACCEPTANCE
Non`ac*cept"ance, n.

Defn: A neglect or refusal to accept.

NONACID
Non*ac"id, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Destitute of acid properties; hence, basic; metallic; positive;
-- said of certain atoms and radicals.

NONACQUAINTANCE
Non`ac*quaint"ance, n.

Defn: Want of acquaintance; the state of being unacquainted.

NONACQUIESCENCE
Non*ac`qui*es"cence, n.

Defn: Refusal of acquiescence; failure to yield or comply.

NONADMISSION
Non`ad*mis"sion, n.

Defn: Failure to be admitted.

NONADULT
Non`a*dult", a.

Defn: Not adult; immature.

NONAEROBIOTIC
Non*a`ër*o*bi*ot"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Capable of living without atmospheric oxygen; anaërobiotic.

NONAGE
Non"age, n. Etym: [LL. nonagium, from L. nonus ninth, novem nine.]
(Eccl.)

Defn: The ninth part of movable goods, formerly payable to the clergy
on the death of persons in their parishes. Mozley & W.

NONAGE
Non"age, n. Etym: [Pref. non- + age.]

Defn: Time of life before a person becomes of age; legal immaturity;
minority.
The human mind . . . was still in its nonage. Coleridge.

NONAGED
Non"aged, a.

Defn: Having the quality of nonage; being a minor; immature. W.
Browne.

NONAGENARIAN
Non`a*ge*na"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. nonagenarius containing, or
consisting of, ninety, fr. nonageni ninety each; akin to novem nine.]

Defn: A person ninety years old.

NONAGESIMAL
Non`a*ges"i*mal, a. Etym: [L. nonagesimus the ninetieth. See
Nonagenarian.] (Astron.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ninetieth degree or to a nonagesimal.

NONAGESIMAL
Non`a*ges"i*mal, n. (Astron.)

Defn: The middle or highest point of the part of the ecliptic which
is at any given moment above the horizon. It is the ninetieth degree
of the ecliptic, reckoned from the points in which it is intersected
by the horizon.

NONAGON
Non"a*gon, n. Etym: [L. nonus ninth + Gr. (Math.)

Defn: A figure or polygon having nine sides and nine angles.

NONAGRIAN
Non*a"gri*an, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any moth of the genus Nonagria and allied genera, as the
spindleworm and stalk borer.

NONALIENATION
Non*al`ien*a"tion, n.

Defn: Failure to alienate; also, the state of not being alienated.

NONANE
Non"ane, n. Etym: [L. nonus ninth.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons C9H20 of the paraffin
series; -- so called because of the nine carbon atoms in the
molecule. Normal nonane is a colorless volatile liquid, an ingredient
of ordinary kerosene.

NONAPPEARANCE
Non`ap*pear"ance, n.

Defn: Default of apperance, as in court, to prosecute or defend;
failure to appear.

NONAPPOINTMENT
Non`ap*point"ment, n.

Defn: Neglect of making appointment; failure to receive an
appointment.

NONARRIVAL
Non`ar*riv"al, n.

Defn: Failure to arrive.

NON ASSUMPSIT
Non` as*sump"sit. Etym: [L., he did not undertake.] (Law)

Defn: The general plea or denial in an action of assumpsit.

NONATTENDANCE
Non`at*tend"ance, n.

Defn: A failure to attend; omission of attendance; nonappearance.

NONATTENTION
Non`at*ten"tion, n.

Defn: Inattention.

NONBITUMINOUS
Non`bi*tu"mi*nous, a.

Defn: Containing no bitumen; not bituminous.

NONCE
Nonce, n. Etym: [For the nonce, OE. for the nones, a corruption of
for then ones, where n. in then is a relic of AS. m in , dat. of the
article and demonstrative pronoun, E. the. See For, Once, and The.]

Defn: The one or single occasion; the present call or purpose; --
chiefly used in the phrase for the nonce.
The miller was a stout carl for the nones. Chaucer.
And that he calls for drink, I 'll have prepared him A chalice for
the nonce. Shak.
Nonce word, "a word apparently employed only for the nonce". Murray
(New English Dict. ).

NONCHALANCE
Non`cha`lance", n. Etym: [F. See Nonchalant.]

Defn: Indifference; carelessness; coolness.

NONCHALANT
Non`cha`lant", a. Etym: [F., fr. non not (L. non) + chaloir to
concern one's self for, fr. L. calere to be warm, to be inflamed with
desire, to be troubled. See Non-, and Caldron.]

Defn: Indifferent; careless; cool.

NONCHALANTLY
Non"cha*lant`ly, adv.

Defn: In a nonchalant, indifferent, or careless manner; coolly.

NONCLAIM
Non"claim`, n.

Defn: A failure to make claim within the time limited by law;
omission of claim.

NONCOHESION
Non`co*he"sion, n.

Defn: Want of cohesion.

NONCOINCIDENCE
Non`co*in"ci*dence, n.

Defn: Lack of coincidence.

NONCOINCIDENT
Non`co*in"ci*dent, a.

Defn: Not coincident.

NONCOMBATANT
Non*com"bat*ant, n. (Mil.)

Defn: Any person connected with an army, or within the lines of an
army, who does not make it his business to fight, as any one of the
medical officers and their assistants, chaplains, and others; also,
any of the citizens of a place occupied by an army; also, any one
holding a similar position with respect to the navy.

NONCOMMISSIONED
Non`com*mis"sioned, a.

Defn: Not having a commission. Noncommissioned officer (Mil.), a
subordinate officer not appointed by a commission from the chief
executive or supreme authority of the State; but by the Secretary of
War or by the commanding officer of the regiment.

NONCOMMITTAL
Non`com*mit"tal, n.

Defn: A state of not being committed or pledged; forbearance or
refusal to commit one's self. Also used adjectively.

NONCOMMUNION
Non`com*mun"ion, n.

Defn: Neglect or failure of communion.

NONCOMPLETION
Non`com*ple"tion, n.

Defn: Lack of completion; failure to complete.

NONCOMPLIANCE
Non`com*pli"ance, n.

Defn: Neglect of compliance; failure to comply.

NONCOMPLYING
Non`com*ply"ing, a.

Defn: Neglecting or refusing to comply.

NON COMPOS; NON COMPOS MENTIS
Non com"pos. Non com"pos men"tis.Etym: [L.]

Defn: Not of sound mind; not having the regular use of reason; hence,
also, as a noun, an idiot; a lunati

NONCON.
Non"con. (, n.

Defn: See Noncontent.

NONCONCLUDING
Non`con*clud"ing, a.

Defn: Not concluding.

NONCONCUR
Non`con*cur", v. i.

Defn: To dissent or refuse to concur.

NONCONCURRENCE
Non`con*cur"rence, n.

Defn: Refusal to concur.

NONCONDENSIBLE
Non`con*den"si*ble, a.

Defn: Not condensible; incapable of being liquefied; -- said of
gases.

NONCONDENSING
Non`con*dens"ing, a. (Steam Engine)

Defn: Not condensing; discharging the steam from the cylinder at a
pressure nearly equal to or above that of the atmosphere and not into
a condenser.

NONCONDUCTING
Non`con*duct"ing, a.

Defn: Not conducting; not transmitting a fluid or force; thus, in
electricity, wax is a nonconducting substance.

NONCONDUCTION
Non`con*duc"tion, n.

Defn: The quality of not being able to conduct or transmit; failure
to conduct.

NONCONDUCTOR
Non`con*duct"or, n. (Physics)

Defn: A substance which does not conduct, that is, convey or
transmit, heat, electricity, sound, vibration, or the like, or which
transmits them with difficulty; an insulator; as, wool is a
nonconductor of heat; glass and dry wood are nonconductors of
electricity.

NONCONFORMING
Non`con*form"ing, a.

Defn: Not conforming; declining conformity; especially, not
conforming to the established church of a country.

NONCONFORMIST
Non`con*form"ist, n.

Defn: One who does not conform to an established church; especially,
one who does not conform to the established church of England; a
dissenter.

NONCONFORMITY
Non*con*form"i*ty, n.

Defn: Neglect or failure of conformity; especially, in England, the
neglect or refusal to unite with the established church in its rites
and modes of worship.

NONCONSTAT
Non`con"stat, n. Etym: [Law L.]

Defn: It does not appear; it is not plain or clear; it does not
follow.

NONCONTAGIOUS
Non`con*ta"gious, a.

Defn: Not contagious; not catching; not communicable by contact.
 -- Non`con*ta"gious*ness, n.

NONCONTENT
Non`con*tent", n. (British House of Lords)

Defn: One who gives a negative vote; -- sometimes abridged into
noncon. or non con.

NONCONTRIBUTING; NONCONTRIBUTORY
Non`con*trib"u*ting, Non`con*trib"u*to*ry, a.

Defn: Not contributing.

NONDA
Non"da, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The edible plumlike fruit of the Australian tree, Parinarium
Nonda.

NONDECANE
Non*dec"ane, n. Etym: [L. nonus ninth + decem ten.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon of the paraffin series, a white waxy substance,
C19H40; -- so called from the number of carbon atoms in the molecule.

NONDECIDUATE
Non`de*cid"u*ate, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Characterized by the absence of a decidua; indeciduate.

NONDELIVERY
Non`de*liv"er*y, n.

Defn: A neglect or failure of delivery; omission of delivery.

NONDEPOSITION
Non*dep`o*si"tion, n.

Defn: A failure to deposit or throw down.

NONDESCRIPT
Non"de*script, a. Etym: [Pref. non- + L. descriptus described.]

Defn: Not hitherto described; novel; hence, odd; abnormal;
unclassifiable.

NONDESCRIPT
Non"de*script, n.

Defn: A thing not yet described; that of which no account or
explanation has been given; something abnormal, or hardly
classifiable.

NONDEVELOPMENT
Non`de*vel"op*ment, n.

Defn: Failure or lack of development.

NONDISCOVERY
Non`dis*cov"er*y, n.

Defn: Want or failure of discovery.

NONDO
Non"do, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse umbelliferous plant (Ligusticum actæifolium) with a
large aromatic root. It is found chiefly in the Alleghany region.
Also called Angelico.

NONE
None, a. & pron. Etym: [OE. none, non, nan, no, na, AS. nan, fr. ne
not + an one. No, a. & adv., One, and cf. Non-, Null, a.]

1. No one; not one; not anything; -- frequently used also
partitively, or as a plural, not any.
There is none that doeth good; no, not one. Ps. xiv. 3.
Six days ye shall gather it, but on the seventh day, which is the
Sabbath, in it there shall be none. Ex. xvi. 26.
Terms of peace yet none Vouchsafed or sought. Milton.
None of their productions are extant. Blair.

2. No; not any; -- used adjectively before a vowel, in old style; as,
thou shalt have none assurance of thy life. None of, not at all; not;
nothing of; -- used emphatically. "They knew that I was none of the
register that entered their admissions in the universities." Fuller.
 -- None-so-pretty (Bot.), the Saxifraga umbrosa. See London pride
(a), under London.

NONE
None, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Same as Nones, 2.

NONEFFECTIVE
Non`ef*fect"ive, a.

1. Not effective.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: Not fit or available for duty.

NON-EGO
Non-e"go, n. Etym: [L., not I.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The union of being and relation as distinguished from, and
contrasted with, the ego. See Ego.

NONELASTIC
Non`e*las"tic, a.

Defn: Not having elasticity.

NONELECT
Non`e*lect", n. sing. & pl. (Theol.)

Defn: A person or persons not elected, or chosen, to salvation.

NONELECTION
Non`e*lec"tion, n.

Defn: Failure of election.

NONELECTRIC; NONELECTRICAL
Non`e*lec"tric, Non`e*lec"tric*al, a.

Defn: Not electric; conducting electricity.

NONELECTRIC
Non`e*lec"tric, n. (Physics)

Defn: A substance that is not an electric; that which transmits
electricity, as a metal.

NONEMPHATIC; NONEMPHATICAL
Non`em*phat"ic, Non`em*phat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Having no emphasis; unemphatic.

NONENTITY
Non*en"ti*ty, n.; pl. Nonentities (.

1. Nonexistence; the negation of being.

2. A thing not existing. South.

3. A person or thing of little or no account. [Colloq.]

NON-EPISCOPAL
Non`-E*pis"co*pal, a.

Defn: Not Episcopal; not pertaining to the Episcopal church or
system.

NONES
Nones, n. pl. Etym: [L. nonae, so called because it was the ninth day
before the ides, fr. nonus ninth, from novem nine. See Nine, Nones,
2, Noon .]

1. (Roman Cal.)

Defn: The fifth day of the months January, February, April, June,
August, September, November, and December, and the seventh day of
March, May, July, and October. The nones were nine days before the
ides, reckoning inclusively, according to the Roman method.

2. Etym: [F. none, fr. L. See Noon.]

Defn: The canonical office, being a part of the Breviary, recited at
noon (formerly at the ninth hour, 3 P. M.) in the Roman Catholic
Church.

3. The hour of dinner; the noonday meal. [Obs.]
At my supper and sometimes at nones. P. Plowman.

NONESSENTIAL
Non`es*sen"tial, a.

Defn: Not essential.

NONESSENTIAL
Non`es*sen"tial, n.

Defn: A thing not essential.

NON EST FACTUM
Non` est` fac"tum. Etym: [Law L. it is not (his) deed.] (Law)

Defn: The plea of the general issue in an action of debt on bond.

NON EST INVENTUS
Non` est` in*ven"tus. Etym: [L., he is not found.] (Law)

Defn: The return of a sheriff on a writ, when the defendant is not
found in his county. Bouvier.

NONESUCH
None"such`, n.

Defn: A person or thing of a sort that there is no other such;
something extraordinary; a thing that has not its equal. It is given
as a name to various objects, as to a choice variety of apple, a
species of medic (Medicago lupulina), a variety of pottery clay, etc.

NONET; NONETTO
No*net", No*net"to, n. Etym: [From L. nonus ninth, like E. duet, fr.
L. duo.] (Mus.)

Defn: A composition for nine instruments, rarely for nine voices.

NONETT
Non"ett, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The titmouse. [Obs.]

NONEXECUTION
Non*ex`e*cu"tion, n.

Defn: Neglect or failure of execution; nonperformance.

NONEXISTENCE
Non`ex*ist"ence, n.

1. Absence of existence; the negation of being; nonentity. A. Baxter.

2. A thing that has no existence. Sir T. Browne.

NONEXISTENT
Non`ex*ist"ent, a.

Defn: Not having existence.

NONEXPORTATION
Non*ex`por*ta"tion, n.

Defn: A failure of exportation; a not exporting of commodities.

NONEXTENSILE
Non`ex*ten"sile, a.

Defn: Not extensile; incapable of being stretched.

NON-FEASANCE
Non-fea"sance, n. Etym: [Pref. non- + OF. faisance a doing, fr. faire
to do.] (Law)

Defn: An omission or neglect to do something, esp. that which ought
to have been done. Cf. Malfeasance.

NONFULFILLMENT
Non`ful*fill"ment, n.

Defn: Neglect or failure to fulfill.

NONILLION
No*nil"lion, n. Etym: [L. nonus ninth + -illion, as in E. million.]

Defn: According to the French and American notation, a thousand
octillions, or a unit with thirty ciphers annexed; according to the
English notation, a million octillions, or a unit with fifty-four
ciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration.

NONIMPORTATION
Non*im`por*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Want or failure of importation; a not importing of commodities.

NONIMPORTING
Non`im*port"ing, a.

Defn: Not importing; not bringing from foreign countries.

NONINFLECTIONAL
Non`in*flec"tion*al, a.

Defn: Not admitting of, or characterized by, inflection.

NONINHABITANT
Non`in*hab"it*ant, n.

Defn: One who is not an inhabitant; a stranger; a foreigner; a
nonresident.

NONINTERVENTION
Non*in`ter*ven"tion, n.

Defn: The state or habit of not intervening or interfering; as, the
nonintervention of one state in the affairs of another.

NONIUS
No"ni*us, n. Etym: [Latinized form of Nunez, the name of a Portuguese
mathematician.]

Defn: A vernier.

NONJOINDER
Non*join"der, n. (Law)

Defn: The omission of some person who ought to have been made a
plaintiff or defendant in a suit, or of some cause of action which
ought to be joined.

NONJURANT
Non*ju"rant, a.

Defn: Nonjuring.

NONJURING
Non*ju"ring, a. Etym: [F. jurer to swear, or L. jurare, jurari, to
swear, fr. L. jus, juris, right, law, justice. See Jury.]

Defn: Not swearing allegiance; -- applied to the party in Great
Britain that would not swear allegiance to William and Mary, or their
successors.

NONJUROR
Non*ju"ror, n. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: One of those adherents of James II. who refused to take the
oath of allegiance to William and Mary, or to their successors, after
the revolution of 1688; a Jacobite.

NONJURORISM
Non*ju"ror*ism, n. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: The doctrines, or action, of the Nonjurors.

NONLIMITATION
Non*lim`i*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Want of limitation; failure to limit.

NON LIQUET
Non` li"quet. Etym: [L.]

Defn: It is not clear; -- a verdict given by a jury when a matter is
to be deferred to another day of trial.

NONMALIGNANT
Non`ma*lig"nant, a.

Defn: Not malignant, as a disease.

NONMANUFACTURING
Non*man`u*fac"tur*ing, a.

Defn: Not carrying on manufactures.

NONMEDULLATED
Non*med"ul*la`ted, a.

Defn: Not medullated; (Anat.) without a medulla or marrow, or without
a medullary sheath; as, a nonmedullated nerve fiber.

NONMEMBER
Non*mem"ber, n.

Defn: One who is not a member.

NONMEMBERSHIP
Non*mem"ber*ship, n.

Defn: State of not being a member.

NONMETAL
Non"met`al, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of the set of elements which, as contrasted with the
metals, possess, produce, or receive, acid rather than basic
properties; a metalloid; as, oxygen, sulphur, and chlorine are
nonmetals.

NONMETALLIC
Non`me*tal"lic, a.

1. Not metallic.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Resembling, or possessing the properties of, a nonmetal or
metalloid; as, sulphur is a nonmetallic element.

NONMORAL
Non*mor"al, a.

Defn: Not moral nor immoral; having no connection with morals; not in
the sphere of morals or ethics; not ethical.

NONNATURAL
Non*nat"u*ral, a.

Defn: Not natural; unnatural.

NONNE
Nonne, n.

Defn: A nun. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NONNECESSITY
Non`ne*ces"si*ty, n.

Defn: Absence of necessity; the quality or state of being
unnecessary.

NONNITROGNOUS
Non`ni*trog"nous, a.

Defn: Devoid of nitrogen; as, a nonnitrogenous principle; a
nonnitrogenous food. See the Note under Food, n., 1.

NONNUCLEATED
Non*nu"cle*a`ted, a.

Defn: Without a nucleus.

NONNY
Non"ny, n.

Defn: A silly fellow; a ninny.

NONOBEDIENCE
Non`o*be"di*ence, n.

Defn: Neglect of obedience; failure to obey.

NONOBSERVANCE
Non`ob*serv"ance, n.

Defn: Neglect or failure to observe or fulfill.

NON OBSTANTE
Non` ob*stan"te. Etym: [L.]

1. Notwithstanding; in opposition to, or in spite of, what has been
stated, or is to be stated or admitted.

2. (Law)

Defn: A clause in old English statutes and letters patent, importing
a license from the crown to do a thing notwithstanding any statute to
the contrary. This dispensing power was abolished by the Bill of
Rights.
In this very reign [Henry III.] the practice of dispensing with
statutes by a non obstante was introduced. Hallam.
Non obstante veredicto Etym: [LL.] (Law), a judgment sometimes
entered by order of the court, for the plaintiff, notwithstanding a
verdict for the defendant. Stephen.

NONOIC
No*no"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, nonane; as, nonoic
acid, which is also called pelargonic acid. Cf. Pelargonic.

NONONE
Non"one, n. Etym: [Nonane + -one, suffix denoting the third degree of
unsaturation.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of several metameric unsaturated hydrocarbons (C9H14)
of the valylene series.

NONOXYGENOUS
Non`ox*yg"e*nous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Without oxygen; characterized by the absence of oxygen; as, a
nonoxygenous alkaloid.

NONPAREIL
Non`pa*reil", n. Etym: [See Nonpareil, a. ]

1. Something of unequaled excellence; a peerless thing or person; a
nonesuch; -- often used as a name.

2. Etym: [F. nonpareille.] (Print.)

Defn: A size of type next smaller than minion and next larger than
agate (or ruby).

Note: This line is printed in the type called nonpareil.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A beautifully colored finch (Passerina ciris), native of the
Southern United States. The male has the head and neck deep blue,
rump and under parts bright red, back and wings golden green, and the
tail bluish purple. Called also painted finch.
(b) Any other similar bird of the same genus.

NONPAREIL
Non`pa*reil", a. Etym: [F., from non not + pareil equal, fr. LL.
pariculus, dim. of L. par equal. See Non, and Pair, Peer.]

Defn: Having no equal; peerless.

NONPAYMENT
Non*pay"ment, n.

Defn: Neglect or failure to pay.

NONPERFORMANCE
Non`per*form"ance, n.

Defn: Neglect or failure to perform.

NONPHOTOBIOTIC
Non*pho`to*bi*ot"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Capable of living without light; as, nonphotobiotic plant
cells, or cells which habitually live in darkness.

NONPLANE
Non`plane", a. (Math.)

Defn: Not lying in one plane; -- said of certain curves.

NONPLUS
Non"plus, n. Etym: [L. non not + plus more, further. See Plural.]

Defn: A state or condition which daffles reason or confounds
judgment; insuperable difficalty; inability to proceed or decide;
puzzle; quandary.
Both of them are a perfect nonplus and baffle to all human
understanding. South.

NONPLUS
Non"plus`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nonplused or Nonplussed; p. pr. & vb.
n. Nonplusing or Nonplussing.]

Defn: To puzzle; to confound; to perplex; to cause to stop by
embarrassment.
He has been nonplused by Mr. Dry's desiring him to tell what it was
that he endeavored to prove. Spectator.

NONPREPARATION
Non*prep`a*ra"tion, n.

Defn: Neglect or failure to prepare; want of preparation.

NONPRESENTATION
Non*pres`en*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Neglect or failure to present; state of not being presented.

NONPRODUCTION
Non`pro*duc"tion, n.

Defn: A failure to produce or exhibit.

NONPROFESSIONAL
Non`pro*fes"sion*al, a.

Defn: Not belonging to a profession; not done by, or proceeding from,
professional men; contrary to professional usage.

NONPROFICIENCY
Non`pro*fi"cien*cy, n.

Defn: Want of proficiency; failure to make progress.

NONPROFICIENT
Non`pro*fi"cient, n.

Defn: One who has failed to become proficient.

NON PROS.
Non" pros.` (.

Defn: An abbreviation of Non prosequitur.

NON-PROS
Non`-pros", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nonprossed; p. pr. & vb. n. Non-
prossing.]

Defn: To decline or fail to prosecute; to allow to be dropped (said
of a suit); to enter judgment against (a plaintiff who fails to
prosecute); as, the plaintiff was non-prossed.

NON PROSEQUITUR
Non" pro*seq"ui*tur. Etym: [L. he does not prosecute.] (Law)

Defn: A judgment entered against the plaintiff in a suit where he
does not appear to prosecute. See Nolle prosequi.

NONRECURRENT
Non`re*cur"rent, a.

Defn: Not recurring.

NONRECURRING
Non`re*cur"ring, a.

Defn: Nonrecurrent.

NONREGARDANCE
Non`re*gard"ance, n.

Defn: Want of due regard; disregard; slight. [Obs.] Shak.

NONREGENT
Non`re"gent, n. (Eng. Universities)

Defn: A master of arts whose regency has ceased. See Regent.

NONRENDITION
Non`ren*di"tion, n.

Defn: Neglect of rendition; the not rendering what is due.
The nonrendition of a service which is due. S. E. Dwight.

NONRESEMBLANCE
Non`re*sem"blance, n.

Defn: Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilarity.

NONRESIDENCE
Non*res"i*dence, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being nonresident, Swift.

NONRESIDENT
Non*res"i*dent, a.

Defn: Not residing in a particular place, on one's own estate, or in
one's proper place; as, a nonresident clergyman or proprietor of
lands.

NONRESIDENT
Non*res"i*dent, n.

Defn: A nonresident person; one who does not reside in the State or
jurisdiction.

NONRESISTANCE
Non`re*sist"ance, n.

Defn: The principles or practice of a nonresistant; passive
obedience; submission to authority, power, oppression, or violence
without opposition.

NONRESISTANT
Non`re*sist"ant, a.

Defn: Making no resistance.

NONRESISTANT
Non`re*sist"ant, n.

Defn: One who maintains that no resistance should be made to
constituted authority, even when unjustly or oppressively exercised;
one who advocates or practices absolute submission; also, one who
holds that violence should never be resisted by force.

NONRESISTING
Non`re*sist"ing, a.

Defn: Not making resistance.

NONRUMINANT
Non*ru"mi*nant, a.

Defn: Not ruminating; as, a nonruminant animal.

NONSANE
Non`sane", a.

Defn: Unsound; not perfect; as, a person of nonsane memory.
Blackstone.

NONSENSE
Non"sense, n. Etym: [Pref. non- + sense: cf. F. nonsens.]

1. That which is not sense, or has no sense; words, or language,
which have no meaning, or which convey no intelligible ideas;
absurdity.

2. Trifles; things of no importance. Nonsense verses, lines made by
taking any words which occur, but especially certain words which it
is desired to recollect, and arranging them without reference to
anything but the measure, so that the rhythm of the lines may aid in
recalling the remembrance of the words.

Syn.
 -- Folly; silliness; absurdity; trash; balderdash.

NONSENSICAL
Non*sen"si*cal, a.

Defn: Without sense; unmeaning; absurb; foolish; irrational;
preposterous.
 -- Non*sen"si*cal*ly, adv.
 -- Non*sen"si*cal*ness, n.

NONSENSITIVE
Non*sen"si*tive, a.

Defn: Not sensitive; wanting sense or perception; not easily
affected.

NON SEQUITUR
Non seq"ui*tur. Etym: [L., it does not follow.] (Logic)

Defn: An inference which does not follow from the premises.

NONSEXUAL
Non*sex"u*al, a.

Defn: Having no distinction of sex; sexless; neuter.

NONSLAVEHOLDING
Non*slave"hold`ing, a.

Defn: Not possessing or holding slaves; as, a nonslaveholding State.

NONSOLUTION
Non`so*lu"tion, n.

Defn: Failure of solution or explanation.

NONSOLVENCY
Non*sol"ven*cy, n.

Defn: Inability to pay debts; insolvency.

NONSOLVENT
Non*sol"vent, a.

Defn: Not solvent; insolvent.

NONSOLVENT
Non*sol"vent, n.

Defn: An insolvent.

NONSONANT
Non*so"nant, a.

Defn: Not sonant.
 -- n.

Defn: A nonsonant or nonvocal consonant.

NONSPARING
Non*spar"ing, a.

Defn: Sparing none.

NONSTRIATED
Non*stri"a*ted, a. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Without striations; unstriped; as, nonstriated muscle fibers.

NONSUBMISSION
Non`sub*mis"sion, n.

Defn: Want of submission; failure or refusal to submit.

NONSUBMISSIVE
Non`sub*mis"sive, a.

Defn: Not submissive.

NONSUCH
Non"such, n.

Defn: See Nonesuch.

NONSUIT
Non"suit`, n. (Law)

Defn: A neglect or failure by the plaintiff to follow up his suit; a
stopping of the suit; a renunciation or withdrawal of the cause by
the plaintiff, either because he is satisfied that he can not support
it, or upon the judge's expressing his opinion. A compulsory nonsuit
is a nonsuit ordered by the court on the ground that the plaintiff on
his own showing has not made out his case.

NONSUIT
Non"suit`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nonsuited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Nonsuiting.] (Law)

Defn: To determine, adjudge, or record (a plaintiff) as having
dropped his suit, upon his withdrawal or failure to follow it up.
"When two are joined in a writ, and one is nonsuited." Z. Swift.

NONSUIT
Non"suit`, a.

Defn: Nonsuited. D. A. Tyng.

NONSURETY
Non*sure"ty, n.

Defn: Insecurity. [Obs.]

NONTENURE
Non*ten"ure, n. (Law)

Defn: A plea of a defendant that he did not hold the land, as
affirmed.

NONTERM
Non"term`, n. (Law)

Defn: A vacation between two terms of a court.

NONTOXIC
Non*tox"ic, a.

Defn: Not toxic.

NONTRONITE
Non"tro*nite, n. Etym: [So called because found in the arrondissement
of Notron, France.] (Min.)

Defn: A greenish yellow or green mineral, consisting chiefly of the
hydrous silicate of iron.

NONUNIFORMIST
Non*u"ni*form`ist, n.

Defn: One who believes that past changes in the structure of the
earth have proceeded from cataclysms or causes more violent than are
now operating; -- called also nonuniformitarian.

NONUNION
Non*un"ion, a.

1. Not belonging to, or affiliated with, a trades union; as, a
nonunoin carpenter.

2.  Not recognizing or favoring trades unions or trades-unionists;
as, a nonunion contractor. --Non*un"ion*ism (#), n.

NONUNIONIST
Non*un"ion*ist, n.

Defn: One who does not belong, or refuses to belong, to a trades
union.

NONUSANCE
Non*us"ance, n.

Defn: Neglect of using; failure to use. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

NONUSER
Non*us"er,

1. A not using; failure to use.
An office may be forfeited by misuser or nonuser. Blackstone.

2. (Law)

Defn: Neglect or omission to use an easement or franchise or to
assert a right. Kent.

NONVASCULAR
Non*vas"cu*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Destitute of vessels; extravascular.

NONVERNACULAR
Non`ver*nac"u*lar, a.

Defn: Not vernacular.
A nonvernacular expression. Sir W. Hamilton.

NONVOCAL
Non*vo"cal, a.

Defn: Not vocal; destitute of tone.
 -- n.

Defn: A nonvocal consonant.

NONYL
Non"yl, n. Etym: [Nonane + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The hydrocarbon radical, C9H19, derived from nonane and forming
many compounds. Used also adjectively; as, nonyl alcohol.

NONYLENE
Non"y*lene, n. Etym: [Nonane + ethylene.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of metameric, unsaturated hydrocarbons
C9H18 of the ethylene series.

NONYLENIC
Non`y*len"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, related to, or designating, nonylene or its
compounds; as, nonylenic acid.

NONYLIC
No*nyl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, nonyl or its compounds; as,
nonylic acid.

NOODLE
Noo"dle, n. Etym: [Cf. Noddle, Noddy.]

Defn: A simpleton; a blockhead; a stupid person; a ninny. [Low]
The chuckling grin of noodles. Sydney Smith.

NOODLE
Noo"dle, n. Etym: [G. nudel vermicelli.]

Defn: A thin strip of dough, made with eggs, rolled up, cut into
small pieces, and used in soup.

NOOK
Nook, n. Etym: [OE. nok; cf. Gael. & Ir. niuc.]

Defn: A narrow place formed by an angle in bodies or between bodies;
a corner; a recess; a secluded retreat.
How couldst thou find this dark, sequestered nook Milton.

NOOK-SHOTTEN
Nook"-shot`ten, a.

Defn: Full of nooks, angles, or corners. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
That nook-shotten isle of Albion. Shak.

NOOLOGICAL; NOOELOGICAL
No`ö*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to noölogy.

NOOLOGIST; NOOELOGIST
No*öl"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in noölogy.

NOOLOGY; NOOELOGY
No*öl"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of intellectual phenomena.

NOON
Noon, a.

Defn: No. See the Note under No. [Obs.]

NOON
Noon, n. Etym: [AS. n, orig., the ninth hour, fr. L.nona (sc. hora)
the ninth hour, then applied to the church services (called nones) at
that hour, the time of which was afterwards changed to noon. See
Nine, and cf. Nones, Nunchion.]

1. The middle of the day; midday; the time when the sun is in the
meridian; twelve o'clock in the daytime.

2. Hence, the highest point; culmination.
In the very noon of that brilliant life which was destined to be so
soon, and so fatally, overshadowed. Motley.
High noon, the exact meridian; midday.
 -- Noon of night, midnight. [Poetic] Dryden.

NOON
Noon, a.

Defn: Belonging to midday; occurring at midday; meridional. Young.

NOON
Noon, v. i.

Defn: To take rest and refreshment at noon.

NOONDAY
Noon"day`, n.

Defn: Midday; twelve o'clock in the day; noon.

NOONDAY
Noon"day`, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to midday; meridional; as, the noonday heat.
"Noonday walks." Addison.

NOON-FLOWER
Noon"-flow`er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The goat's beard, whose flowers close at midday.

NOONING
Noon"ing, n.

Defn: A rest at noon; a repast at noon.

NOONSHUN
Noon"shun, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Nunchion. Nares.

NOONSTEAD
Noon"stead, n.

Defn: The position of the sun at noon. [Obs.] Drayton.

NOONTIDE
Noon"tide`, n. Etym: [From noon + tide time; cf. AS. n the ninth
hour.]

Defn: The time of noon; midday.

NOOSE
Noose, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. OF. nous, nom. sing. or acc. pl. of nou
knot, F. n, L. nodus. Cf. Node.]

Defn: A running knot, or loop, which binds the closer the more it is
drawn.

NOOSE
Noose, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Noosed; p. pr. & vb. n. Noosing.]

Defn: To tie in a noose; to catch in a noose; to entrap; to insnare.

NOOT
Noot.

Defn: See lst Not. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NOPAL
No"pal, n. Etym: [Mexican nopalli.] (Bot.)

Defn: A cactaceous plant (Nopalea cochinellifera), originally
Mexican, on which the cochineal insect feeds, and from which it is
collected. The name is sometimes given to other species of Cactaceæ.

NOPALRY
No"pal*ry, n.; pl. Nopalries (.

Defn: A plantation of the nopal for raising the cochineal insect.

NOPE
Nope, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bullfinch. [Prov. Eng.]

NOR
Nor, conj. Etym: [OE. nor, contr. from nother. See Neither.]

Defn: A negative connective or particle, introducing the second
member or clause of a negative proposition, following neither, or
not, in the first member or clause (as or in affirmative propositions
follows either). Nor is also used sometimes in the first member for
neither, and sometimes the neither is omitted and implied by the use
of nor.
Provide neither gold nor silver, nor brass, in your purses, nor scrip
for your journey. Matt. x. 9, 10.
Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt. Matt. vi. 20.
I love him not, nor fear him. Shak.
Where neither party is nor true, nor kind. Shak.
Simois nor Xanthus shall be wanting there. Dryden.

NORBERTINE
Nor"bert*ine, n.

Defn: See Premonstrant.

NORFOLK
Nor"folk, n.

Defn: Short for Norfolk Jacket.

NORFOLK DUMPLING
Norfolk dumpling. (Eng.)
 (a) A kind of boiled dumpling made in Norfolk.
 (b) A native or inhabitant of Norfolk.

NORFOLK JACKET
Norfolk jacket.

Defn: A kind of loose-fitting plaited jacket, having a loose belt.

NORFOLK PLOVER
Norfolk plover.

Defn: The stone curlew.

NORFOLK SPANIEL
Norfolk spaniel.

Defn: One of a breed of field spaniels similar to the clumbers, but
shorter in body and of a liver-and-white or black-and-white color.

NORIA
No"ri*a, n. Etym: [Sp., from Ar. na'.]

Defn: A large water wheel, turned by the action of a stream against
its floats, and carrying at its circumference buckets, by which water
is raised and discharged into a trough; used in Arabia, China, and
elsewhere for irrigating land; a Persian wheel.

NORIAN
No"ri*an, a. Etym: [From norite.] (Geol.)

Defn: Pertaining to the upper portion of the Laurentian rocks. T. S.
Hunt.

NORICE
Nor"ice, n.

Defn: Nurse. [Obs.] Chaucer.

NORIE
No"rie, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cormorant. [Prov. Eng.]

NORIMON
Nor"i*mon, n.; pl. Norimons (.

Defn: A Japanese covered litter, carried by men. B. Taylor.

NORITE
No"rite, n. Etym: [F., fr. Norvège Norway .] (Min.)

Defn: A granular crystalline rock consisting essentially of a
triclinic feldspar (as labradorite) and hypersthene.

NORIUM
No"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed metal alleged to have been discovered in zircon.

NORLAND
Nor"land, n. [For Northland.]

1. The land in the north; north country. [Chiefly Poetic]

2.  = Norlander. [Scot. & Eng.]

NORLANDER
Nor"land*er, n.

Defn: A northener; a person from the north country.

NORM
Norm, n. Etym: [L. norma a rule. See Normal, a.]

1. A rule or authoritative standard; a model; a type.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A typical, structural unit; a type. Agassiz.

NORMA
Nor"ma, n. Etym: [L.]

1. A norm; a principle or rule; a model; a standard. J. S. Mill.

2. A mason's or a carpenter's square or rule.

3. A templet or gauge.

NORMAL
Nor"mal, a. Etym: [L. normalis, fr. norma rule, pattern, carpenter's
square; prob. akin to noscere to know; cf. Gr. normal. See Known, and
cf. Abnormal, Enormous.]

1. According to an established norm, rule, or principle; conformed to
a type, standard, or regular form; performing the proper functions;
not abnormal; regular; natural; analogical.
Deviations from the normal type. Hallam.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: According to a square or rule; perpendicular; forming a right
angle. Specifically: Of or pertaining to a normal.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: Standard; original; exact; typical. Specifically:
(a) (Quantitative Analysis) Denoting a solution of such strength that
every cubic centimeter contains the same number of milligrams of the
element in question as the number of its molecular weight. (b)
(Chem.)

Defn: Denoting certain hypothetical compounds, as acids from which
the real acids are obtained by dehydration; thus, normal sulphuric
acid and normal nitric acid are respectively S(OH)6, and N(OH)5.
(c) (Organ. Chem.) Denoting that series of hydrocarbons in which no
carbon atom is united with more than two other carbon atoms; as,
normal pentane, hexane, etc. Cf. Iso-. Normal equations (Method of
Least Squares), a set of equations of the first degree equal in
number to the number of unknown quantities, and derived from the
observations by a specified process. The solution of the normal
equations gives the most probable values of the unknown quantities.
 -- Normal group (Geol.), a group of rocks taken as a standard.
Lyell.
 -- Normal place (of a planet or comet) (Astron.), the apparent place
in the heavens of a planet or comet at a specified time, the place
having been determined by a considerable number of observations,
extending perhaps over many days, and so combined that the accidental
errors of observation have largely balanced each other.
 -- Normal school, a school whose methods of instruction are to serve
as a model for imitation; an institution for the training of
teachers.

Syn.
 -- Normal, Regular, Ordinary. Regular and ordinary are popular terms
of well-known signification; normal has now a more specific sense,
arising out of its use in science. A thing is normal, or in its
normal state, when strictly conformed to those principles of its
constitution which mark its species or to the standard of a healthy
and natural condition. It is abnormal when it departs from those
principles.

NORMAL
Nor"mal, n. Etym: [Cf. F. normale, ligne normale. See Normal, a.]

1. (Geom.) Any perpendicular.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: A straight line or plane drawn from any point of a curve or
surface so as to be perpendicular to the curve or surface at that
point.

Note: The term normal is also used to denote the distance along the
normal line from the curve to the axis of abscissas or to the center
of curvature.

NORMALCY
Nor"mal*cy, n.

Defn: The quality, state, or fact of being normal; as, the point of
normalcy. [R.]

NORMALIZATION
Nor`mal*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: Reduction to a standard or normal state.

NORMALLY
Nor"mal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a normal manner. Darwin.

NORMAN
Nor"man, n. Etym: [F. normand.] (Naut.)

Defn: A wooden bar, or iron pin. W. C. Russell.

NORMAN
Nor"man, a. Etym: [F. normand, of Scand. origin. See Northman, and
cf. Norse.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Normandy or to the Normans; as, the Norman
language; the Norman conquest. Norman style (Arch.), a style of
architecture which arose in the tenth century, characterized by great
massiveness, simplicity, and strength, with the use of the
semicircular arch, heavy round columns, and a great variety of
ornaments, among which the zigzag and spiral or cable-formed
ornaments were prominent.

NORMAN
Nor"man, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Normandy; originally, one of the
Northmen or Scandinavians who conquered Normandy in the 10th century;
afterwards, one of the mixed (Norman-French) race which conquered
England, under William the Conqueror.

NORMANISM
Nor"man*ism, n.

Defn: A Norman idiom; a custom or expression peculiar to the Normans.
M. Arnold.

NORN; NORNA
Norn, Nor"na, n. Etym: [Icel. norn, pl. nornir.]

1. (Scandinavian Myth.)

Defn: One of the three Fates, Past, Present, and Future. Their names
were Urd, Verdandi, and Skuld.

2. A tutelary deity; a genius.

NOROPIANIC
No*ro`pi*an"ic, a. Etym: [Etymology uncertain.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the aromatic
series obtained from opianic acid.

NORROY
Nor"roy, n. Etym: [Lit., north king, fr. F. nord north + roi king.]
(Her.)

Defn: The most northern of the English Kings-at-arms. See King-at-
arms, under King.

NORSE
Norse, a. Etym: [Dan. Norsk, fr. nord north. See North.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to ancient Scandinavia, or to the language
spoken by its inhabitants.

NORSE
Norse, n.

Defn: The Norse language.

NORSEMAN
Norse"man, n.; pl. Norsemen (.

Defn: One of the ancient Scandinavians; a Northman.

NORTELRY
Nor"tel*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. Nurture.]

Defn: Nurture; education; culture; bringing up. [Obs.]
Nortelry . . . learned at the nunnery. Chaucer.

NORTH
North, n. Etym: [AS. noredh; akin to D. noord, G., Sw., & Dan. nord,
Icel. noredhr. Cf. Norman, Norse.]

1. That one of the four cardinal points of the compass, at any place,
which lies in the direction of the true meridian, and to the left
hand of a person facing the east; the direction opposite to the
south.

2. Any country or region situated farther to the north than another;
the northern section of a country.

3. Specifically: That part of the United States lying north of Mason
and Dixon's line. See under Line.

NORTH
North, a.

Defn: Lying toward the north; situated at the north, or in a northern
direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding
toward the north, or coming from the north. North following. See
Following, a., 2.
 -- North pole, that point in the heavens, or on the earth, ninety
degrees from the equator toward the north.
 -- North preceding. See Following, a., 2.
 -- North star, the star toward which the north pole of the earth
very nearly points, and which accordingly seems fixed and immovable
in the sky. The star a (alpha) of the Little Bear, is our present
north star, being distant from the pole about 1º 25', and from year
to year approaching slowly nearer to it. It is called also Cynosura,
polestar, and by astronomers, Polaris.

NORTH
North, v. i.

Defn: To turn or move toward the north; to veer from the east or west
toward the north.

NORTH
North, adv.

Defn: Northward.

NORTHEAST
North`east", n.

Defn: The point between the north and east, at an equal distance from
each; the northeast part or region.

NORTHEAST
North`east", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the northeast; proceeding toward the
northeast, or coming from that point; as, a northeast course; a
northeast wind. Northeast passage, a passage or communication by sea
between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans along the north coast of
Asia.

NORTHEAST
North`east", adv.

Defn: Toward the northeast.

NORTHEASTER
North`east"er, n.

Defn: A storm, strong wind, or gale, coming from the northeast.

NORTHEASTERLY
North`east"er*ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the northeast; toward the northeast, or coming
from the northeast.

NORTHEASTERLY
North`east"er*ly, adv.

Defn: Toward the northeast.

NORTHEASTERN
North`east"ern, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the northeast; northeasterly.

NORTHEASTWARD; NORTHEASTWARDLY
North`east"ward, North`east"ward*ly, adv.

Defn: Toward the northeast.

NORTHER
North"er, n.

Defn: A wind from the north; esp., a strong and cold north wind in
Texas and the vicinity of the Gulf of Mexico.

NORTHERLINESS
North"er*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being northerly; direction toward the
north.

NORTHERLY
North"er*ly, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the north; toward the north, or from the
north; northern.

NORTHERLY
North"er*ly, adv.

Defn: Toward the north.

NORTHERN
North"ern, a. Etym: [AS. noredherne.]

1. Of or pertaining to the north; being in the north, or nearer to
that point than to the east or west.

2. In a direction toward the north; as, to steer a northern course;
coming from the north; as, a northern wind. Northern diver. (Zoöl.)
See Loon.
 -- Northern lights. See Aurora borealis, under Aurora.
 -- Northern spy (Bot.), an excellent American apple, of a yellowish
color, marked with red.

NORTHERNER
North"ern*er, n.

1. One born or living in the north.

2. A native or inhabitant of the Northern States; --
contradistinguished from Ant: Southerner. [U. S.]

NORTHERNLY
North"ern*ly, adv.

Defn: Northerly. [Obs.] Hakewill.

NORTHERNMOST
North"ern*most`, a. Etym: [Cf. Northmost.]

Defn: Farthest north.

NORTHING
North"ing, n.

1. (Surv. & Navigation)

Defn: Distance northward from any point of departure or of reckoning,
measured on a meridian; -- opposed to Ant: southing.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The distance of any heavenly body from the equator northward;
north declination.

NORTHMAN
North"man, n.; pl. Northmen. Etym: [AS. noredhman. See North, and
Man, and cf. Norman.]

Defn: One of the inhabitants of the north of Europe; esp., one of the
ancient Scandinavians; a Norseman.

NORTHMOST
North"most`, a. Etym: [AS. nor. Cf.Aftermost.]

Defn: Lying farthest north; northernmost.
Northmost part of the coast of Mozambique. De Foe.

NORTHNESS
North"ness, n.

Defn: A tendency in the end of a magnetic needle to point to the
north. Faraday.

NORTH STAR STATE
North Star State.

Defn: Minnesota; -- a nickname.

NORTHUMBRIAN
North*um"bri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Northumberland in England.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Northumberland.

NORTHWARD
North"ward, a. Etym: [AS. noredhweard.]

Defn: Toward the north; nearer to the north than to the east or west
point.

NORTHWARD; NORTHWARDS
North"ward, North"wards, adv.

Defn: Toward the north, or toward a point nearer to the north than to
the east or west point.

NORTHWARDLY
North"ward*ly, a.

Defn: Having a northern direction.

NORTHWARDLY
North"ward*ly, adv.

Defn: In a northern direction.

NORTHWEST
North`west", n. Etym: [AS. noredhwest.]

Defn: The point in the horizon between the north and west, and
equally distant from each; the northwest part or region.

NORTHWEST
North`west", a.

1. Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the point between the north
and west; being in the northwest; toward the northwest, or coming
from the northwest; as, the northwest coast.

2. Coming from the northwest; as, a northwest wind. Northwest
passage, a passage or communication by sea between the Atlantic and
Pacific oceans along the north coast of America, long sought for by
navigators.

NORTHWEST
North`west", adv.

Defn: Toward the northwest.

NORTHWESTER
North`west"er, n.

Defn: A storm or gale from the northwest; a strong northwest wind.

NORTHWESTERLY
North`west"er*ly, a.

Defn: Toward the northwest, or from the northwest.

NORTHWESTERN
North`west"ern, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or being in, the northwest; in a direction
toward the northwest; coming from the northwest; northwesterly; as, a
northwestern course.

NORTHWESTWARD; NORTHWESTWARDLY
North`west"ward, North`west"ward*ly, adv.

Defn: Toward the northwest.

NORWEGIAN
Nor*we"gi*an, a. Etym: [Cf. Icel. Noregr, Norvegr, Norway. See North,
and Way.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Norway, its inhabitants, or its language.

NORWEGIAN
Nor*we"gi*an, n.

1. A native of Norway.

2. That branch of the Scandinavian language spoken in Norway.

NORWEGIUM
Nor*we"gi*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Norwegian.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element, of doubtful identification, said to
occur in the copper-nickel of Norway.

NORWEYAN
Nor*we"yan, a.

Defn: Norwegian. [Obs.] Shak.

NOSE
Nose, n. Etym: [AS. nosu; akin to D. neus, G. nase, OHG. nasa, Icel.
nös, Sw. näsa, Dan. näse, Lith. nosis, Russ. nos', L. nasus, nares,
Skr. nasa, nas. Nasal, Nasturtium, Naze, Nostril, Nozzle.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The prominent part of the face or anterior extremity of the
head containing the nostrils and olfactory cavities; the olfactory
organ. See Nostril, and Olfactory organ under Olfactory.

2. The power of smelling; hence, scent.
We are not offended with a dog for a better nose than his master.
Collier.

3. A projecting end or beak at the front of an object; a snout; a
nozzle; a spout; as, the nose of a bellows; the nose of a teakettle.
Nose bit (Carp.), a bit similar to a gouge bit, but having a cutting
edge on one side of its boring end.
 -- Nose hammer (Mach.), a frontal hammer.
 -- Nose hole (Glass Making), a small opening in a furnace, before
which a globe of crown glass is held and kept soft at the beginning
of the flattening process.
 -- Nose key (Carp.), a fox wedge.
 -- Nose leaf (Zoöl.), a thin, broad, membranous fold of skin on the
nose of many species of bats. It varies greatly in size and form.
 -- Nose of wax, fig., a person who is pliant and easily influenced.
"A nose of wax to be turned every way." Massinger -- Nose piece, the
nozzle of a pipe, hose, bellows, etc.; the end piece of a microscope
body, to which an objective is attached.
 -- To hold, put, or bring one's nose to the grindstone. See under
Grindstone.
 -- To lead by the nose, to lead at pleasure, or to cause to follow
submissively; to lead blindly, as a person leads a beast. Shak.
 -- To put one's nose out of joint, to humiliate one's pride, esp. by
supplanting one in the affections of another. [Slang] -- To thrust
one's nose into, to meddle officiously in.
 -- To wipe one's nose of, to deprive of; to rob. [Slang]