

OLD DOMINION
Old Dominion.

Defn: Virginia; -- a name of uncertain origin, perh. from the old
designation of the colony as "the Colony and Dominion of Virginia."

OLDEN
Old"en, a.

Defn: Old; ancient; as, the olden time. "A minstrel of the olden
stamp." J. C. Shairp.

OLDEN
Old"en, v. i.

Defn: To grow old; to age. [R.]
She had oldened in that time. Thackeray.

OLD-FASHIONED
Old`-fash"ioned, a.

Defn: Formed according to old or obsolete fashion or pattern;
adhering to old customs or ideas; as, an old-fashioned dress, girl.
"Old-fashioned men of wit." Addison.
This old-fashioned, quaint abode. Longfellow.

OLD-GENTLEMANLY
Old`-gen"tle*man*ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an old gentleman, or like one. Byron.

OLDISH
Old"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat old.

OLD LANG SYNE
Old` lang syne".

Defn: See Auld lang syne.

OLD LINE STATE
Old Line State.

Defn: Maryland; a nickname, alluding to the fact that its northern
boundary in Mason and Dixon's line.

OLD-MAIDISH
Old`-maid"ish, a.

Defn: Like an old maid; prim; precise; particular.

OLD-MAIDISM
Old`-maid"ism, n.

Defn: The condition or characteristics of an old maid. G. Eliot.

OLDNESS
Old"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being old; old age.

OLDSTER
Old"ster, n. Etym: [Cf. Youngster.]

Defn: An old person. [Jocular] H. Kingsley.

OLD-WOMANISH
Old`-wom`an*ish, a.

Defn: Like an old woman; anile.
 -- Old`-wom"an*ish*ness, n.

OLEA
O"le*a, n. Etym: [L. olive. See Olive.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees including the olive.

Note: The Chinese Olea fragrans, noted for its fragrance, and the
American devilwood (Olea Americana) are now usually referred to
another genus (Osmanthus).

OLEACEOUS
O`le*a"ceous, a. Etym: [L. oléaceus of the olive tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants
(Oleaceæ), mostly trees and shrubs, of which the olive is the type.
It includes also the ash, the lilac, the true jasmine, and fringe
tree.

OLEAGINOUS
O`le*ag`i*nous, a. Etym: [L. oleaginus, oleagineus, belonging to the
olive, fr. olea olive: cf. F. oléagineux. See Olive, Oil.]

Defn: Having the nature or qualities of oil; oily; unctuous.

OLEAGINOUSNESS
O`le*ag`i*nous*ness, n.

Defn: Oiliness. Boyle.

OLEAMEN
O`le*a"men, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: A soft ointment prepared from oil. Dunglison.

OLEANDER
O`le*an"der, n. Etym: [F. oléandre (cf. It. oleandro, LL. lorandrum),
prob. corrupted, under the influence of laurus laurel, fr. L.
rhododendron, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A beautiful evergreen shrub of the Dogbane family, having
clusters of fragrant red or white flowers. It is native of the East
Indies, but the red variety has become common in the south of Europe.
Called also rosebay, rose laurel, and South-sea rose.

Note: Every part of the plant is dangerously poisonous, and death has
occured from using its wood for skewers in cooking meat.

OLEANDRINE
O`le*an"drine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of several alkaloids found in the leaves of the oleander.

OLEASTER
O`le*as"ter, n. Etym: [L., fr. olea olive tree. See Olive, Oil.]
(Bot.)
(a) The wild olive tree (Olea Europea, var. sylvestris).
(b) Any species of the genus Elæagus. See Eleagnus. The small silvery
berries of the common species (Elæagnus hortensis) are called
Trebizond dates, and are made into cakes by the Arabs.

OLEATE
O"le*ate, n. Etym: [Cf.F. oléate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of oleic acid. Some oleates, as the oleate of mercury,
are used in medicine by way of inunction.

OLECRANAL
O*lec"ra*nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the olecranon.

OLECRANON
O*lec"ra*non, n. Etym: [NL., fr.Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The large process at the proximal end of the ulna which
projects behind the articulation with the humerus and forms the bony
prominence of the elbow.

OLEFIANT
O*le"fi*ant, a. Etym: [F. oléfiant, fr.L. oleum oil + -ficare (in
comp.). Cf. -Fy.] (Chem.)

Defn: Forming or producing an oil; specifically, designating a
colorless gaseous hydrocarbon called ethylene. [Archaic]

OLEFINE
O"le*fine, n. Etym: [From Olefiant.] (Chem.)

Defn: Olefiant gas, or ethylene; hence, by extension, any one of the
series of unsaturated hydrocarbons of which ethylene is a type. See
Ethylene.

OLEIC
O"le*ic, a. Etym: [L. oleum oil: cf. F. oléique.] (Physiol.Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, oil; as, oleic
acid, an acid of the acrylic acid series found combined with glyceryl
in the form of olein in certain animal and vegetable fats and oils,
such as sperm oil, olive oil, etc. At low temperatures the acid is
crystalline, but melts to an oily liquid above 14

OLEIFEROUS
O`le*if`er*ous, a. Etym: [L. oleum oil + -ferous: cf.F. oléifére.]

Defn: Producing oil; as, oleiferous seeds.

OLEIN
O"le*in, n. Etym: [L. oleum oil: cf. F. oléine.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A fat, liquid at ordinary temperatures, but solidifying at
temperatures below 0° C., found abundantly in both the animal and
vegetable kingdoms (see Palmitin). It dissolves solid fats,
especially at 30-40° C. Chemically, olein is a glyceride of oleic
acid; and, as three molecules of the acid are united to one molecule
of glyceryl to form the fat, it is technically known as triolein. It
is also called elain.

OLENT
O"lent, a. Etym: [L. olens, p.pr. of olere to smell.]

Defn: Scented. [R.] R. Browning.

OLEOGRAPH
O`le*o*graph, n. Etym: [L. oleum oil + -graph.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: The form or figure assumed by a drop of oil when placed upon
water or some other liquid with which it does not mix.

2. (Painting)

Defn: A picture produced in oils by a process analogous to that of
lithographic printing.

OLEOGRAPHY
O`le*og"ra*phy, n.

1. Art or process of producing the pictures known as oleographs.

2.  A process of identifying oils by their oleographs.

OLEOMARGARINE
O`le*o*mar"ga*rine, n. Etym: [L. oleum oil + E. margarine, margarin.]
[Written also oleomargarin.]

1. A liquid oil made from animal fats (esp. beef fat) by separating
the greater portion of the solid fat or stearin, by crystallization.
It is mainly a mixture of olein and palmitin with some little
stearin.

2. An artificial butter made by churning this oil with more or less
milk.

Note: Oleomargarine was wrongly so named, as it contains no margarin
proper, but olein, palmitin, and stearin, a mixture of palmitin and
stearin having formerly been called margarin by mistake.

OLEOMETER
O`le*om`e*ter, n. Etym: [L. oleum oil + -meter.] (Chem.)

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the weight and purity of oil; an
elaiometer.

OLEONE
O"le*one, n. Etym: [L. oleum + -one, 1.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oily liquid, obtained by distillation of calcium oleate, and
probably consisting of the ketone of oleic acid.

OLEO OIL
O`le*o oil.

Defn: An oil expressed from certain animal fats (esp. beef suet), the
greater portion of the solid fat, or stearin, being left behind. It
is mixture of olein, palmitin, and a little stearin.

OLEOPTENE
O`le*op"tene, n. Etym: [L. oleum oil + Cr. (Chem.)

Defn: See Eleoptene. [R.]

OLEORESIN
O`le*o*res"in, n. Etym: [L.oleum oil + E. resin.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A natural mixture of a terebinthinate oil and a resin.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A liquid or semiliquid preparation extracted (as from capsicum,
cubebs, or ginger) by means of ether, and consisting of fixed or
volatile oil holding resin in solution.
 -- O`le*o*res"in*ous, a.

OLEOSE; OLEOUS
O"le*ose`, O"le*ous, a. Etym: [L. oleosus, fr. oleum oil.]

Defn: Oily. [R.] Ray. Floyer.

OLEOSITY
O`le*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being oily or fat; fatness. [R.] B.
Jonson.

OLERACEOUS
Ol`er*a"ceous, a. Etym: [L. oleraceus, from olus, oleris, garden or
pot herbs, vegetables.]

Defn: Pertaining to pot herbs; of the nature or having the qualities
of herbs for cookery; esculent. Sir T. Browne.

OLF
Olf, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European bullfinch. [Prov.Eng.]

OLFACTION
Ol*fac"tion, n. Etym: [See Olfactory.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The sense by which the impressions made on the olfactory organs
by the odorous particles in the atmosphere are perceived.

OLFACTIVE
Ol*fac"tive, a.

Defn: See Olfactory, a.

OLFACTOR
Ol*fac"tor, n.

Defn: A smelling organ; a nose. [R.]

OLFACTORY
Ol*fac"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. olfactus, p.p. of olfacere to smell; olere
to have a smell + facere to make. See Odor, and Fact.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or connected with, the sense of smell; as,
the olfactory nerves; the olfactory cells. Olfactory organ (Anat.),
an organ for smelling. In vertebrates the olfactory organs are more
or less complicated sacs, situated in the front part of the head and
lined with epithelium innervated by the olfactory (or first cranial)
nerves, and sensitive to odoriferous particles conveyed to it in the
air or in water.

OLFACTORY
Ol*fac"to*ry, n.; pl. Olfactories (.

Defn: An olfactory organ; also, the sense of smell; -- usually in the
plural.

OLIBAN
Ol"i*ban, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Olibanum.

OLIBANUM
O*lib"a*num, n. Etym: [LL., fr. Ar. al-luban frankincense; cf.Gr.

Defn: The fragrant gum resin of various species of Boswellia;
Oriental frankincense.

OLIBENE
Ol"i*bene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless mobile liquid of a pleasant aromatic odor obtained
by the distillation of olibanum, or frankincense, and regarded as a
terpene; -- called also conimene.

OLID; OLIDOUS
Ol"id, Ol"i*dous, a. Etym: [L. olidus, fr. olere to smell.]

Defn: Having a strong, disagreeable smell; fetid. [Obs.] Boyle. Sir
T. Browne.

OLIFANT
Ol"i*fant, n. Etym: [OF.]

1. An elephant. [Obs.]

2. An ancient horn, made of ivory.

OLIGANDROUS
Ol`i*gan"drous, a. Etym: [Oligo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having few stamens.

OLIGANTHOUS
Ol`i*gan"thous, a. Etym: [Oligo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having few flowers.

OLIGARCH
Ol`i*garch, n.

Defn: A member of an oligarchy; one of the rulers in an oligarchical
government.

OLIGARCHAL
Ol`i*gar"chal, a.

Defn: Oligarchic. Glover.

OLIGARCHIC; OLIGARCHICAL
Ol`i*gar"chic, Ol`i*gar"chic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. oligarchique. See
Oligarchy.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to oligarchy, or government by a few.
"Oligarchical exiles." Jowett (Thucyd. ).

OLIGARCHIST
Ol"i*gar`chist, n.

Defn: An advocate or supporter of oligarchy.

OLIGARCHY
Ol"i*gar"chy, n.; pl. Oligarchies. Etym: [Gr. oligarchie.]

Defn: A form of government in which the supreme power is placed in
the hands of a few persons; also, those who form the ruling few.
All oligarchies, wherein a few men domineer, do what they list.
Burton.

OLIGIST
Ol"i*gist, n. Etym: [See Oligist, a.] (Min.)

Defn: Hematite or specular iron ore; -- prob. so called in allusion
to its feeble magnetism, as compared with magnetite.

OLIGIST; OLIGISTIC
Ol"i*gist, Ol`i*gis"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. oligiste.] (Min.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to hematite.

OLIGO-
Ol"i*go-.

Defn: A combining form from Gr. few, little, small.

OLIGOCENE
Ol"i*go*cene, a. Etym: [Oligo- + Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain strata which occupy
an intermediate position between the Eocene and Miocene periods.
 -- n.

Defn: The Oligocene period. See the Chart of Geology.

OLIGOCHAETA
Ol`i*go*chæ"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Annelida which includes the earthworms and related
species.

OLIGOCHETE
Ol"i*go*chete, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Oligochæta.

OLIGOCLASE
Ol"i*go*clase, n. Etym: [Oligo- + Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A triclinic soda-lime feldspar. See Feldspar.

OLIGOMEROUS
Ol`i*gom"er*ous, a. Etym: [Oligo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having few members in each set of organs; as, an oligomerous
flower.

OLIGOMYOLD
Ol`i*go"my*old, a. Etym: [Oligo- + Gr. -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having few or imperfect syringeal muscles; -- said of some
passerine birds (Oligomyodi).

OLIGOPETALOUS
Ol`i*go*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Oligo- + petal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having few petals.

OLIGOSEPALOUS
Ol`i*go*sep"al*ous, a. Etym: [Oligo- + sepal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having few sepals.

OLIGOSIDERITE
Ol`i*go*sid"er*ite, n. Etym: [Oligo- + siderite.] (Min.)

Defn: A meteorite characterized by the presence of but a small amount
of metallic iron.

OLIGOSPERMOUS
Ol`i*go*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Oligo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having few seeds.

OLIGOTOKOUS
Ol`i*got"o*kous, a. Etym: [Oligo- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Producing few young.

OLIO
O"li*o, n. Etym: [Sp. olla a round earthen pot, a dish of boiled or
stewed meat, fr. L. olla a pot, dish. Cf. Olla, Olla-podrida.]

1. A dish of stewed meat of different kinds. [Obs.]
Besides a good olio, the dishes were trifling. Evelyn.

2. A mixture; a medley. Dryden.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A collection of miscellaneous pieces.

OLITORY
Ol"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. olitorius belonging to a kitchen gardener,
or to vegetables, fr. olitor a kitchen gardener, fr. olus, oleris,
vegetables.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or produced in, a kitchen garden; used for
kitchen purposes; as, olitory seeds.
At convenient distance towards the olitory garden. Evelyn.

OLIVA
O*li"va, n. Etym: [L. an olive.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of polished marine gastropod shells, chiefly tropical,
and often beautifully colored.

OLIVACEOUS
Ol`i*va"ceous, a. Etym: [L. oliva olive.]

Defn: Resembling the olive; of the color of the olive; olive-green.

OLIVARY
Ol"i*va*ry, a. Etym: [L. olivarius belonging to olives, fr. oliva an
olive: cf. F. olivaire.] (Anat.)

Defn: Like an olive. Olivary body (Anat.), an oval prominence on each
side of the medulla oblongata; -- called also olive.

OLIVASTER
Ol`i*vas"ter, a. Etym: [L. oliva olive: cf.F. olivâtre.]

Defn: Of the color of the olive; tawny. Sir T. Herbert.

OLIVE
Ol"ive, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. oliva, akin to Gr. Oil.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A tree (Olea Europæa) with small oblong or elliptical leaves,
axillary clusters of flowers, and oval, one-seeded drupes. The tree
has been cultivated for its fruit for thousands of years, and its
branches are the emblems of peace. The wood is yellowish brown and
beautifully variegated.
(b) The fruit of the olive. It has been much improved by cultivation,
and is used for making pickles. Olive oil is pressed from its flesh.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any shell of the genus Oliva and allied genera; -- so called from
the form. See Oliva.
(b) The oyster catcher. [Prov.Eng.]

3.
(a) The color of the olive, a peculiar dark brownish, yellowish, or
tawny green.
(b) One of the tertiary colors, composed of violet and green mixed in
equal strength and proportion.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: An olivary body. See under Olivary.

5. (Cookery)

Defn: A small slice of meat seasoned, rolled up, and cooked; as,
olives of beef or veal.

Note: Olive is sometimes used adjectively and in the formation of
self-explaining compounds; as, olive brown, olive green, olive-
colored, olive-skinned, olive crown, olive garden, olive tree, olive
yard, etc. Bohemian olive (Bot.), a species of Elæagnus (E.
angustifolia), the flowers of which are sometimes used in Southern
Europe as a remedy for fevers.
 -- Olive branch. (a) A branch of the olive tree, considered an
emblem of peace. (b) Fig.: A child.
 -- Olive brown, brown with a tinge of green.
 -- Olive green, a dark brownish green, like the color of the olive.
 -- Olive oil, an oil expressed from the ripe fruit of the olive, and
much used as a salad oil, also in medicine and the arts.
 -- Olive ore (Min.), olivenite.
 -- Wild olive (Bot.), a name given to the oleaster or wild stock of
the olive; also variously to several trees more or less resembling
the olive.

OLIVE
Ol"ive, a.

Defn: Approaching the color of the olive; of a peculiar dark
brownish, yellowish, or tawny green.

OLIVED
Ol"ived, a.

Defn: Decorated or furnished with olive trees. [R.] T. Warton.

OLIVENITE
O*liv"en*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: An olive-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of copper; olive
ore.

OLIVER
Ol"i*ver, n.

1. Etym: [OF. oliviere.]

Defn: An olive grove. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Etym: [F. olivier.]

Defn: An olive tree. [Obs.] Chaucer.

OLIVER
Ol"i*ver, n.

Defn: A small tilt hammer, worked by the foot.

OLIVERIAN
Ol`i*ve"ri*an, n. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: An adherent of Oliver Cromwell. Macaulay.

OLIVEWOOD
Ol`ive*wood", n. (Bot.)
(a) The wood of the olive.
(b) An Australian name given to the hard white wood of certain trees
of the genus Elæodendron, and also to the trees themselves.

OLIVIL
Ol`i*vil, n. Etym: [Cf. F. olivile.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance, obtained from an exudation from
the olive, and having a bitter-sweet taste and acid proporties.
[Written also olivile.] Gregory.

OLIVIN
Ol"i*vin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A complex bitter gum, found on the leaves of the olive tree; --
called also olivite.

OLIVINE
Ol"i*vine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. olivine.] (Min.)

Defn: A common name of the yellowish green mineral chrysolite, esp.
the variety found in eruptive rocks.

OLIVITE
Ol"i*vite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Olivin.

OLLA
Ol"la, n. Etym: [See Olio.]

1. A pot or jar having a wide mouth; a cinerary urn, especially one
of baked clay.

2. A dish of stewed meat; an olio; an olla-podrida.

OLLA-PODRIDA
Ol`la-po*dri"da, n. Etym: [Sp., lit., a rotten pot. See Olio.]

1. A favorite Spanish dish, consisting of a mixture of several kinds
of meat chopped fine, and stewed with vegetables.

2. Any incongruous mixture or miscellaneous collection; an olio. B.
Jonson.

OLOGY
Ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [See -logy.]

Defn: A colloquial or humorous name for any science or branch of
knowledge.
He had a smattering of mechanics, of physiology, geology, mineralogy,
and all other ologies whatsoever. De Quincey.

OLPE
Ol"pe, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: Originally, a leather flask or vessel for oils or liquids;
afterward, an earthenware vase or pitcher without a spout.

OLUSATRUM
O*lu"sa*trum, n. Etym: [L. holusatrum, olusatrum; olus garden herb +
ater black.] (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant, the common Alexanders of Western Europe
(Smyrnium Olusatrum).

OLYMPIAD
O*lym"pi*ad, n. Etym: [L. olympias, -adis, Gr. olympiade.] (Greek
Antig.)

Defn: A period of four years, by which the ancient Greeks reckoned
time, being the interval from one celebration of the Olympic games to
another, beginning with the victory of Coroebus in the foot race,
which took place in the year 776 b.c.; as, the era of the olympiads.

OLYMPIAN; OLYMPIC
O*lym"pi*an, O*lym"pic, a. Etym: [L. Olympius, Olympicus, Gr.
olympique. See Olympiad.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Olympus, a mountain of Thessaly, fabled as
the seat of the gods, or to Olympia, a small plain in Elis. Olympic
games, or Olympics (Greek Antiq.), the greatest of the national
festivals of the ancient Greeks, consisting of athletic games and
races, dedicated to Olympian Zeus, celebrated once in four years at
Olympia, and continuing five days.

OLYMPIANISM
O*lym"pi*an*ism, n.

Defn: Worship of the Olympian gods, esp. as a dominant cult or
religion.

OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIAN GAMES
O*lym"pic, or O*lym"pi*an, games .

Defn: A modified revival of the ancient Olympian games, consisting of
international athletic games, races, etc., now held once in four
years, the first having been at Athens in 1896.

OLYMPIONIC
O*lym`pi*on"ic, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An ode in honor of a victor in the Olympic games. [R.] Johnson.

OM
Om, interj. & n. [Also Aum, Um.] [Skr. om.]

Defn: A mystic syllable or ejaculation used by Hindus and Buddhists
in religious rites, -- orig. among the Hindus an exclamation of
assent, like Amen, then an invocation, and later a symbol of the
trinity formed by Vishnu, Siva, and Brahma. -- Om mani padme hun, a
sacred formula of buddhism (esp. of the Lamaists) translated "O, the
Jewel in the Lotus, Amen," and referring to Amitabha, who is commonly
represented as standing or sitting within a lotus.

-OMA
-o"ma. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A suffix used in medical terms to denote a morbid condition of
some part, usually some kind of tumor; as in fibroma, glaucoma.

OMAGRA
Om"a*gra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Gout in the shoulder.

OMAHAS
O"ma*has", n. pl.; sing. Omaha (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians who inhabited the south side of the Missouri
River. They are now partly civilized and occupy a reservation in
Nebraska.

OMANDER WOOD
O*man"der wood`. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)

Defn: The wood of Diospyros ebenaster, a kind of ebony found in
Ceylon.

OMASUM
O*ma"sum, n. Etym: [L.] (Anat.)

Defn: The third division of the stomach of ruminants. See Manyplies,
and Illust. under Ruminant.

OMBER; OMBRE
Om"ber, Om"bre, n. Etym: [F. hombre, fr. Sp. hombre, lit., a man, fr.
L. homo. See Human.]

Defn: A game at cards, borrowed from the Spaniards, and usually
played by three persons. Pope.
When ombre calls, his hand and heart are free, And, joined to two, he
fails not to make three. Young.

OMBRE
Om"bre, n. Etym: [F., of uncertain origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large Mediterranean food fish (Umbrina cirrhosa): -- called
also umbra, and umbrine.

OMBROMETER
Om*brom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. ombrométre.] (Meteorol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the rain that falls; a rain gauge.

OMEGA
O*me"ga, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Mickle.]

1. The last letter of the Greek alphabet. See Alpha.

2. The last; the end; hence, death.
"Omega! thou art Lord," they said. Tennyson.
Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending; hence, the chief, the
whole. Rev. i. 8.
The alpha and omega of science. Sir J. Herschel.

OMEGOID
O*me"goid, a. Etym: [Omega + -oid.]

Defn: Having the form of the Greek capital letter Omega (

OMELET
Om"e*let, n. Etym: [F. omelette, OF. amelette, alumete, alumelle,
perh. fr. L. lamella. Cf. Lamella.]

Defn: Eggs beaten up with a little flour, etc., and cooked in a
frying pan; as, a plain omelet.

OMEN
O"men, n. Etym: [L. omen, the original form being osmen, according to
Varro.]

Defn: An occurrence supposed to portend, or show the character of,
some future event; any indication or action regarded as a
foreshowing; a foreboding; a presage; an augury.
Bid go with evil omen, and the brand Of infamy upon my name. Milton.

OMEN
O"men, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Omened; p. pr. & vb. n. Omening.]

Defn: To divine or to foreshow by signs or portents; to have omens or
premonitions regarding; to predict; to augur; as, to omen ill of an
enterprise.
The yet unknown verdict, of which, however, all omened the tragical
contents. Sir W. Scott.

OMENED
O"mened, a.

Defn: Attended by, or containing, an omen or omens; as, happy-omened
day.

OMENTAL
O*men"tal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an omentum or the omenta.

OMENTUM
O*men"tum, n.; pl. Omenta. Etym: [L.] (Anat.)

Defn: A free fold of the peritoneum, or one serving to connect
viscera, support blood vessels, etc.; an epiploön.

Note: The great, or gastrocolic, omentum forms, in most mammals, a
great sac, which is attached to the stomach and transverse colon, is
loaded with fat, and covers more or less of the intestines; the caul.
The lesser, or gastrohepatic, omentum connects the stomach and liver
and contains the hepatic vessels. The gastrosplenic omentum, or
ligament, connects the stomach and spleen.

OMER
O"mer, n. Etym: [Cf. Homer.]

Defn: A Hebrew measure, the tenth of an ephah. See Ephah. Ex. xvi.
36.

OMICRON
O*mi"cron, n. [Written also omikron.] [NL., fr. Gr. O o. See Micro-.]

Defn: Lit., the little, or short, O, o; the fifteenth letter of the
Greek alphabet.

OMILETICAL
Om`i*let"ic*al, a.

Defn: Homiletical. [Obs.]

OMINATE
Om"i*nate, v. t. & i. Etym: [L. ominatus, p.p. of ominari to presage,
fr. omen.]

Defn: To presage; to foreshow; to foretoken. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

OMINATION
Om`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. ominatio.]

Defn: The act of ominating; presaging. [Obs.] Fuller.

OMINOUS
Om"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. ominosus, fr. omen. See Omen.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an omen or to omens; being or exhibiting an
omen; significant; portentous; -- formerly used both in a favorable
and unfavorable sense; now chiefly in the latter; foreboding or
foreshowing evil; inauspicious; as, an ominous dread.
He had a good ominous name to have made a peace. Bacon.
In the heathen worship of God, a sacrifice without a heart was
accounted ominous. South.
-- Om"i*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Om"i*nous*ness, n.

OMISSIBLE
O*mis"si*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being omitted; that may be omitted.

OMISSION
O*mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. omissio: cf. F. omission. See Omit.]

1. The act of omitting; neglect or failure to do something required
by propriety or duty.
The most natural division of all offenses is into those of omission
and those of commission. Addison.

2. That which is omitted or is left undone.

OMISSIVE
O*mis"sive, a. Etym: [See Omit.]

Defn: Leaving out; omitting. Bp. Hall.
 -- O*mis"sive*ly, adv.

OMIT
O*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Omitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Omitting.] Etym:
[L. omittere, omissum; ob (see Ob- + mittere to cause to go, let go,
send. See Mission.]

1. To let go; to leave unmentioned; not to insert or name; to drop.
These personal comparisons I omit. Bacon.

2. To pass by; to forbear or fail to perform or to make use of; to
leave undone; to neglect.
Her father omitted nothing in her education that might make her the
most accomplished woman of her age. Addison.

OMITTANCE
O*mit"tance, n.

Defn: The act of omitting, or the state of being omitted;
forbearance; neglect. Shak.

OMITTER
O*mit"ter, n.

Defn: One who omits. Fuller.

OMMATEAL
Om`ma*te"al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an ommateum.

OMMATEUM
Om`ma*te"um, n.; pl. Ommatea. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A compound eye, as of insects and crustaceans.

OMMATIDIUM
Om`ma*tid"i*um, n.; pl. Ommatidia. Etym: [NL., dim. of Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the single eyes forming the compound eyes of
crustaceans, insects, and other invertebrates.

OMNI-
Om"ni-. Etym: [L. omnis all.]

Defn: A combining form denoting all, every, everywhere; as in
omnipotent, all-powerful; omnipresent.

OMNIBUS
Om"ni*bus, n. Etym: [L., for all, dat. pl. from omnis all. Cf. Bus.]

1. A long four-wheeled carriage, having seats for many people;
especially, one with seats running lengthwise, used in conveying
passengers short distances.

2. (Glass Making)

Defn: A sheet-iron cover for articles in a leer or annealing arch, to
protect them from drafts. Omnibus bill, a legislative bill which
provides for a number of miscellaneous enactments or appropriations.
[Parliamentary Cant, U.S.] -- Omnibus box, a large box in a theater,
on a level with the stage and having communication with it. [Eng.]
Thackeray.

OMNICORPOREAL
Om`ni*cor*po"re*al, a. Etym: [Omni- + corporeal.]

Defn: Comprehending or including all bodies; embracing all substance.
[R.] Cudworth.

OMNIETY
Om*ni"e*ty, n.

Defn: That which is all-pervading or all-comprehensive; hence, the
Deity. [R.]
Omniety formed nullity into an essence. Sir T. Browne.

OMNIFARIOUS
Om`ni*fa"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. omnifarius; omnis all + -farius. Cf.
Bifarious.]

Defn: Of all varieties, forms, or kinds. "Omnifarious learning."
Coleridge.

OMNIFEROUS
Om*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. omnifer; omnis all + ferre to bear.]

Defn: All-bearing; producing all kinds.

OMNIFIC
Om*nif"ic, a. Etym: [Omni- + L. -ficare (in comp.) to make.]

Defn: All-creating. "The omnific word." Milton.

OMNIFORM
Om"ni*form, a. Etym: [L. omniformis; omnis all + forma form: cf. F.
omniforme.]

Defn: Having every form or shape. Berkeley.

OMNIFORMITY
Om`ni*for"mi*ty, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of having every form. Dr. H. More.

OMNIFY
Om"ni*fy, v. t. Etym: [Omni- + -fy.]

Defn: To render universal; to enlarge. [R.]
Omnify the disputed point into a transcendent, and you may defy the
opponent to lay hold of it. Coleridge.

OMNIGENOUS
Om*nig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. omniqenus; omnis all + genus kind.]

Defn: Consisting of all kinds. [R.]

OMNIGRAPH
Om"ni*graph, n. Etym: [Omni- + -graph.]

Defn: A pantograph. [R.]

OMNIPARIENT
Om`ni*pa"ri*ent, a. Etym: [L. omniparens all-producing; omnis all +
parere to bring forth.]

Defn: Producing or bringing forth all things; all-producing. [R.]

OMNIPARITY
Om`ni*par"i*ty, n. Etym: [Omni- + -parity.]

Defn: Equality in every part; general equality.

OMNIPAROUS
Om*nip"a*rous, a. Etym: [See Omniparient.]

Defn: Producing all things; omniparient.

OMNIPATIENT
Om`ni*pa"tient, a. Etym: [Omni- + patient.]

Defn: Capable of enduring all things. [R.] Carlyle.

OMNIPERCIPIENCE; OMNIPERCIPIENCY
Om`ni*per*cip"i*ence, Om`ni*per*cip"i*en*cy, n.

Defn: Perception of everything.

OMNIPERCIPIENT
Om`ni*per*cip"i*ent, a. Etym: [Omni- + percipient.]

Defn: Perceiving everything. Dr. H. More.

OMNIPOTENCE; OMNIPOTENCY
Om*nip"o*tence, Om*nip"o*ten*cy, n. Etym: [L. omnipotentia: cf.F.
omnipotence.]

1. The state of being omnipotent; almighty power; hence, one who is
omnipotent; the Deity.
Will Omnipotence neglect to save The suffering virtue of the wise and
brave Pope.

2. Unlimited power of a particular kind; as, love's omnipotence.
Denham.

OMNIPOTENT
Om*nip"o*tent, a. Etym: [F., fr.L. omnipotens, -entis; omnis all +
potens powerful, potent. See Potent.]

1. Able in every respect and for every work; unlimited in ability;
all-powerful; almighty; as, the Being that can create worlds must be
omnipotent.
God's will and pleasure and his omnipotent power. Sir T. More.

2. Having unlimited power of a particular kind; as, omnipotent love.
Shak.
The Omnipotent, The Almighty; God. Milton.

OMNIPOTENTLY
Om*nip"o*tent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an omnipotent manner.

OMNIPRESENCE
Om`ni*pres"ence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. omniprésence.]

Defn: Presence in every place at the same time; unbounded or
universal presence; ubiquity.
His omnipresence fills Land, sea, and air, and every kind that lives.
Milton.

OMNIPRESENCY
Om`ni*pres"en*cy, n.

Defn: Omnipresence. [Obs.]

OMNIPRESENT
Om`ni*pres"ent, a. Etym: [Omni- + present: cf.F. omniprésent.]

Defn: Present in all places at the same time; ubiquitous; as, the
omnipresent Jehovah. Prior.

OMNIPRESENTIAL
Om`ni*pre*sen"tial, a.

Defn: Implying universal presence. [R.] South.

OMNIPREVALENT
Om`ni*prev"a*lent, a. Etym: [Omni- + prevalent.]

Defn: Prevalent everywhere or in all things. Fuller.

OMNISCIENCE
Om*nis"cience, n. Etym: [Cf. F. omniscience.]

Defn: The quality or state of being omniscient; -- an attribute
peculiar to God. Dryden.

OMNISCIENCY
Om*nis"cien*cy, n.

Defn: Omniscience.

OMNISCIENT
Om*nis"cient, a. Etym: [Omni- + L. sciens, -entis, p. pr. of scire to
know: cf. F. omniscient. See Science.]

Defn: Having universal knowledge; knowing all things; infinitely
knowing or wise; as, the omniscient God.
 -- Om*nis"cient*ly, adv.
For what can scape the eye Of God all-seeing, or deceive his heart
Omniscient Milton.

OMNISCIOUS
Om*nis"cious, a. Etym: [L. omniscius. See Omniscient.]

Defn: All-knowing. [Obs.] Hakewill.

OMNISPECTIVE
Om`ni*spec"tive, a. Etym: [Omni- + L. spectus, p.p. of specere,
spicere, to view.]

Defn: Beholding everything; capable of seeing all things; all-seeing.
[R.] "Omnispective Power!" Boyse.

OMNIUM
Om"ni*um, n. Etym: [L., of all, gen. pl. of omnis all.] (Eng.Stock
Exchange)

Defn: The aggregate value of the different stocks in which a loan to
government is now usually funded. M'Culloch.

OMNIUM-GATHERUM
Om`ni*um-gath"er*um, n. Etym: [A macaronic compound of L. omnium,
gen.pl. of omnis all, and E. gather.]

Defn: A miscellaneous collection of things or persons; a confused
mixture; a medley. [Colloq. & Humorous] Selden.

OMNIVAGANT
Om*niv"a*gant, a. Etym: [Omni + L. vagans, p.pr. of vagari to
wander.]

Defn: Wandering anywhere and everywhere. [R.]

OMNIVORA
Om*niv"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Omnivorous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of ungulate mammals including the hog and the
hippopotamus. The term is also sometimes applied to the bears, and to
certain passerine birds.

OMNIVOROUS
Om*niv"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. omnivorus; omnis all + vorate to eat
greedily. See Voracious.]

Defn: All-devouring; eating everything indiscriminately; as,
omnivorous vanity; esp. (Zoöl.), eating both animal and vegetable
food.
 -- Om*niv"o*rous*ness, n.

OMO-
O"mo-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with,
or relation to, the shoulder or the scapula.

OMOHYOID
O`mo*hy"oid, a. Etym: [Omo- + hyoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the shoulder and the hyoid bone; as, the
omohyoid muscle.

OMOPHAGIC
O"mo*phag"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Eating raw flesh; using uncooked meat as food; as, omophagic
feasts, rites.

OMOPLATE
Om"o*plate, n. Etym: [F., from Gr. Omo-, and Plate.] (Anat.)

Defn: The shoulder blade, or scapula.

OMOSTEGITE
O*mos"te*gite, n. Etym: [Omo- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The part of the carapace of a crustacean situated behind the
cervical groove.

OMOSTERNAL
O`mo*ster"nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the omosternum.

OMOSTERNUM
O`mo*ster"num, n. Etym: [Omo- + sternum.] (Anat.)
(a) The anterior element of the sternum which projects forward from
between the clavicles in many batrachians and is usually tipped with
cartilage.
(b) In many mammals, an interarticular cartilage, or bone, between
the sternum and the clavicle.

OMPHACINE
Om"pha*cine, a. Etym: [Gr. omphacin.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or expressed from, unripe fruit; as,
omphacine oil.

OMPHALIC
Om*phal"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Navel.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the umbilicus, or navel.

OMPHALO-
Om"pha*lo-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to,
the umbilicus, or navel.

OMPHALOCELE
Om"pha*lo*cele`, n. Etym: [Gr. omphalocéle.] (Med.)

Defn: A hernia at the navel.

OMPHALODE
Om"pha*lode, n. Etym: [Omphalo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The central part of the hilum of a seed, through which the
nutrient vessels pass into the rhaphe or the chalaza; -- called also
omphalodium.

OMPHALOMANCY
Om"pha*lo*man"cy, n. Etym: [Omphalo- + -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of a child's navel, to learn how many
children the mother may have. Crabb.

OMPHALOMESARAIC
Om`pha*lo*mes`a*ra"ic, a. Etym: [Omphalo- + mesaraic.] (Anat.)

Defn: Omphalomesenteric.

OMPHALOMESENTERIC
Om`pha*lo*mes`en*ter"ic, a. Etym: [Omphalo- + mesenteric.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the umbilicus and mesentery;
omphalomesaraic; as, the omphalomesenteric arteries and veins of a
fetus.

OMPHALOPSYCHITE
Om`pha*lop"sy*chite, n. Etym: [Omphalo- + Gr. omphalopsyque.]
(Eccl.Hist.)

Defn: A name of the Hesychasts, from their habit of gazing upon the
navel.

OMPHALOPTER; OMPHALOPTIC
Om`pha*lop"ter, Om`pha*lop"tic, n. Etym: [Gr. omphaloptre.]

Defn: An optical glass that is convex on both sides. [Obs.] Hutton.

OMPHALOS
Om"pha*los, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The navel.

OMPHALOTOMY
Om`pha*lot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. omphalotomie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of dividing the navel-string.

OMY
O"my, a.

Defn: Mellow, as land. [Prov.Eng.] Ray.

ON
On, prep. Etym: [OE. on, an, o, a, AS. on, an; akin to D. aan, OS. &
G. an, OHG. ana, Icel. a, Sw. ana, Russ. na, L. an-, in anhelare to
pant, Gr. ana. sq. root195. Cf. A-, 1, Ana-, Anon.]

Defn: The general signification of on is situation, motion, or
condition with respect to contact or support beneath; as: --

1. At, or in contact with, the surface or upper part of a thing, and
supported by it; placed or lying in contact with the surface; as, the
book lies on the table, which stands on the floor of a house on an
island.
I stood on the bridge at midnight. Longfellow.

2. To or against the surface of; -- used to indicate the motion of a
thing as coming or falling to the surface of another; as, rain falls
on the earth.
Whosoever shall fall on this stone shall be broken. Matt. xxi. 44.

3. Denoting performance or action by contact with the surface, upper
part, or outside of anything; hence, by means of; with; as, to play
on a violin or piano. Hence, figuratively, to work on one's feelings;
to make an impression on the mind.

4. At or near; adjacent to; -- indicating situation, place, or
position; as, on the one hand, on the other hand; the fleet is on the
American coast.

5. In addition to; besides; -- indicating multiplication or
succession in a series; as, heaps on heaps; mischief on mischief;
loss on loss; thought on thought. Shak.

6. Indicating dependence or reliance; with confidence in; as, to
depend on a person for assistance; to rely on; hence, indicating the
ground or support of anything; as, he will promise on certain
conditions; to bet on a horse.

7. At or in the time of; during; as, on Sunday we abstain from labor.
See At (synonym).

8. At the time of, conveying some notion of cause or motive; as, on
public occasions, the officers appear in full dress or uniform.
Hence, in consequence of, or following; as, on the ratification of
the treaty, the armies were disbanded.

9. Toward; for; -- indicating the object of some passion; as, have
pity or compassion on him.

10. At the peril of, or for the safety of. "Hence, on thy life."
Dryden.

11. By virtue of; with the pledge of; -- denoting a pledge or
engagement, and put before the thing pledged; as, he affirmed or
promised on his word, or on his honor.

12. To the account of; -- denoting imprecation or invocation, or
coming to, falling, or resting upon; as, on us be all the blame; a
curse on him.
His blood be on us and on our children. Matt. xxvii. 25.

13. In reference or relation to; as, on our part expect punctuality;
a satire on society.

14. Of. [Obs.] "Be not jealous on me." Shak.
Or have we eaten on the insane root That takes the reason prisoner
Shak.

Note: Instances of this usage are common in our older writers, and
are sometimes now heard in illiterate speech.

15. Occupied with; in the performance of; as, only three officers are
on duty; on a journey.

16. In the service of; connected with; of the number of; as, he is on
a newspaper; on a committee.

Note: On and upon are in general interchangeable. In some
applications upon is more euphonious, and is therefore to be
preferred; but in most cases on is preferable. On a bowline. (Naut.)
Same as Closehauled.
 -- On a wind, or On the wind (Naut.), sailing closehauled.
 -- On a sudden. See under Sudden.
 -- On board, On draught, On fire, etc. See under Board, Draught,
Fire, etc.
 -- On it, On't, of it. [Obs. or Colloq.] Shak.
 -- On shore, on land; to the shore.
 -- On the road, On the way, On the wing, etc. See under Road, Way,
etc.
 -- On to, upon; on; to; -- sometimes written as one word, onto, and
usually called a colloquialism; but it may be regarded in analogy
with into.
They have added the -en plural form on to an elder plural. Earle.
We see the strength of the new movement in the new class of
ecclesiastics whom it forced on to the stage. J. R. Green.

ON
On, adv. Etym: [See On, prep.]

1. Forward, in progression; onward; -- usually with a verb of motion;
as, move on; go on. "Time glides on." Macaulay.
The path is smooth that leadeth on to danger. Shak.

2. Forward, in succession; as, from father to son, from the son to
the grandson, and so on.

3. In continuance; without interruption or ceasing; as, sleep on,
take your ease; say on; sing on.

4. Adhering; not off; as in the phrase, "He is neither on nor off,"
that is, he is not steady, he is irresolute.

5. Attached to the body, as clothing or ornament, or for use. "I have
boots on." B. Gonson.
He put on righteousness as a breastplate. Is. lix. 17.

6. In progress; proceeding; as, a game is on.

Note: On is sometimes used as an exclamation, or a command to move or
proceed, some verb being understood; as, on, comrades; that is, go
on, move on. On and on, continuously; for a long time together.
"Toiling on and on and on." Longfellow.

ONAGER
On"a*ger, n.; pl. L. Onagri, E. Onagers. Etym: [L. onager, onagrus,
Gr.

1. (Rom.Antiq.)

Defn: A military engine acting like a sling, which threw stones from
a bag or wooden bucket, and was operated by machinery. Fairholt.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wild ass, especially the koulan.

ONAGGA
O*nag"ga, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dauw.

ONAGRACEOUS; ONAGRARIEOUS
On`a*gra"ceous, On`a*gra*ri"e*ous, a. Etym: [From NL. Onagra an old
scientific name of the evening primrose (Enothera), fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants
(Onagraceæ or Onagrarieæ), which includes the fuchsia, the willow-
herb (Epilobium), and the evening primrose ().

ONANISM
O"nan*ism, n. Etym: [Onan (Gen. xxxviii. 9): cf. F. onanisme.]

Defn: Self-pollution; masturbation.

ONAPPO
O*nap"po, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A nocturnal South American monkey (Callithrix discolor), noted
for its agility; -- called also ventriloquist monkey.

ONCE
Once, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ounce.

ONCE
Once, adv. Etym: [OE. ones, anes, an adverbial form fr. one, on, an,
one. See One-, -Wards.]

1. By limitation to the number one; for one time; not twice nor any
number of times more than one.
Ye shall . . . go round about the city once. Josh. vi. 3.
Trees that bear mast are fruitful but once in two years. Bacon.

2. At some one period of time; -- used indefinitely.
My soul had once some foolish fondness for thee. Addison.
That court which we shall once govern. Bp. Hall.

3. At any one time; -- often nearly equivalent to ever, if ever, or
whenever; as, once kindled, it may not be quenched.
Wilt thou not be made clean When shall it once be Jer. xiii. 27.
To be once in doubt Is once to be resolved. Shak.

Note: Once is used as a noun when preceded by this or that; as, this
once, that once. It is also sometimes used elliptically, like an
adjective, for once-existing. "The once province of Britain." J. N.
Pomeroy.. At once. (a) At the same point of time; immediately;
without delay. "Stand not upon the order of your going, but go at
once." Shak. "I . . . withdrew at once and altogether." Jeffrey. (b)
At one and the same time; simultaneously; in one body; as, they all
moved at once.
 -- Once and again, once and once more; repeatedly. "A dove sent
forth once and again, to spy." Milton.

ONCIDIUM
On*cid"i*um, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical orchidaceous plants, the flower of one
species of which (O. Papilio) resembles a butterfly.

ONCOGRAPH
On"co*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for registering the changes observable with an
oncometer.

ONCOMETER
On*com"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the variations in size of the
internal organs of the body, as the kidney, spleen, etc.

ONCOST
On"cost`, n. (Accounting)

Defn: In cost accounting, expenditure which is involved in the
process of manufacture or the performance of work and which cannot be
charged directly to any particular article manufactured or work done
(as where different kinds of goods are produced), but must be
allocated so that each kind of goods or work shall bear its proper
share. [Brit.]

ONCOTOMY
On*cot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. oncotomie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The opening of an abscess, or the removal of a tumor, with a
cutting instrument. [Written also onkotomy.] Dunglison.

ONDE
Onde, n. Etym: [AS. anda malice, anger; akin to Icel. andi, önd,
breath.]

Defn: Hatred; fury; envy. [Obs.]

ON DIT
On` dit". Etym: [F.]

Defn: They say, or it is said.
 -- n.

Defn: A flying report; rumor; as, it is a mere on dit.

ONDOGRAM
On"do*gram, n. [F. onde wave, L. unda + -gram.] (Elec.)

Defn: The record of an ondograph.

ONDOGRAPH
On"do*graph, n. [F. onde wave, L. unda + -graph.] (Elec.)

Defn: An instrument for autographically recording the wave forms of
varying currents, esp. rapidly varying alternating currents.

ONDOMETER
On*dom"e*ter, n. [F. onde wave, L. unda + -mater.]

Defn: An electric wave meter.

ONDOYANT
On`do`yant", a. [F., p.pr. of ondoyer to undulate, fr. onde wave, L.
unda.] (Art)

Defn: Wavy; having the surface marked by waves or slightly depressed
furrows; as, ondoyant glass.

-ONE
-one. Etym: [From Gr. -w`nh, signifying, female descendant.] (Chem.)

Defn: A suffix indicating that the substance, in the name of which it
appears, is a ketone; as, acetone.

-ONE
-one.(Chem.)

Defn: A termination indicating that the hydrocarbon to the name of
which it is affixed belongs to the fourth series of hydrocarbons, or
the third series of unsaturated hydrocarbonsl as, nonone.

ONE
One, a. Etym: [OE. one, on, an, AS. än; akin to D. een, OS. ën,
OFries. ën, än, G. ein, Dan. een, Sw. en, Icel. einn, Goth. ains, W.
un, Ir. & Gael. aon, L. unus, earlier oinos, oenos, Gr. ëka. The same
word as the indefinite article a, an. sq. root 299. Cf. 2d A, 1st An,
Alone, Anon, Any, None, Nonce, Only, Onion, Unit.]

1. Being a single unit, or entire being or thing, and no more; not
multifold; single; individual.
The dream of Pharaoh is one. Gen. xli. 25.
O that we now had here But one ten thousand of those men in England.
Shak.

2. Denoting a person or thing conceived or spoken of indefinitely; a
certain. "I am the sister of one Claudio" [Shak.], that is, of a
certain man named Claudio.

3. Pointing out a contrast, or denoting a particular thing or person
different from some other specified; -- used as a correlative
adjective, with or without the.
From the one side of heaven unto the other. Deut. iv. 32.

4. Closely bound together; undivided; united; constituting a whole.
The church is therefore one, though the members may be many. Bp.
Pearson

5. Single in kind; the same; a common.
One plague was on you all, and on your lords. 1 Sam. vi. 4.

6. Single; inmarried. [Obs.]
Men may counsel a woman to be one. Chaucer.

Note: One is often used in forming compound words, the meaning of
which is obvious; as, one-armed, one-celled, one-eyed, one-handed,
one-hearted, one-horned, one-idead, one-leaved, one-masted, one-
ribbed, one-story, one-syllable, one-stringed, one-winged, etc. All
one, of the same or equal nature, or consequence; as, he says that it
is all one what course you take. Shak.
 -- One day. (a) On a certain day, not definitely specified,
referring to time past.
One day when Phoebe fair, With all her band, was following the chase.
Spenser.
(b) Referring to future time: At some uncertain day or period; some
day.
Well, I will marry one day. Shak.

ONE
One, n.

1. A single unit; as, one is the base of all numbers.

2. A symbol representing a unit, as 1, or i.

3. A single person or thing. "The shining ones." Bunyan. "Hence, with
your little ones." Shak.
He will hate the one, and love the other. Matt. vi. 24.
That we may sit, one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left
hand, in thy glory. Mark x. 37.
After one, after one fashion; alike. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- At one, in agreement or concord. See At one, in the Vocab.
 -- Ever in one, continually; perpetually; always. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- In one, in union; in a single whole.
 -- One and one, One by one, singly; one at a time; one after
another."Raising one by one the suppliant crew." Dryden.

ONE
One, indef. pron.

Defn: Any person, indefinitely; a person or body; as, what one would
have well done, one should do one's self.
It was well worth one's while. Hawthorne.
Against this sort of condemnation one must steel one's self as one
best can. G. Eliot.

Note: One is often used with some, any, no, each, every, such, a,
many a, another, the other, etc. It is sometimes joined with another,
to denote a reciprocal relation.
When any one heareth the word. Matt. xiii. 19.
She knew every one who was any one in the land of Bohemia. Compton
Reade.
The Peloponnesians and the Athenians fought against one another.
Jowett (Thucyd. ).
The gentry received one another. Thackeray.

ONE
One, v. t.

Defn: To cause to become one; to gather into a single whole; to
unite; to assimilite. [Obs.]
The rich folk that embraced and oned all their heart to treasure of
the world. Chaucer.

ONEBERRY
One"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The herb Paris. See Herb Paris, under Herb.

ONE-HAND
One"-hand`, a.

Defn: Employing one hand; as, the one-hand alphabet. See Dactylology.

ONE-HORSE
One"-horse`, a.

1. Drawn by one horse; having but a single horse; as, a one-horse
carriage.

2. Second-rate; inferior; small. [Slang, U.S.]

ONEIDAS
O*nei"das, n. pl.; sing. Oneida (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the region near Oneida
Lake in the State of New York, and forming part of the Five Nations.
Remnants of the tribe now live in New York, Canada, and Wisconsin.

ONEIROCRITIC
O*nei`ro*crit`ic, n. Etym: [Cf.F. oneirocritique. See Oneirocritic,
a.]

Defn: An interpreter of dreams. Bp. Warburton. Addison.

ONEIROCRITIC; ONEIROCRITICAL
O*nei`ro*crit`ic, O*nei`ro*crit`ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the interpretation of dreams. Addison.

ONEIROCRITICISM; ONEIROCRITICS
O*nei`ro*crit`i*cism, O*nei`ro*crit`ics, n.

Defn: The art of interpreting dreams.

ONEIROMANCY
O*nei"ro*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of dreams. De Quincey.

ONEIROSCOPIST
O`nei*ros"co*pist, n.

Defn: One who interprets dreams.

ONEIROSCOPY
O`nei*ros"co*py, n. Etym: [Gr. -scopy.]

Defn: The interpretation of dreams.

ONELINESS
One"li*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being one or single. [Obs.] Cudworth.

ONELY
One"ly, a.

Defn: See Only. [Obs.] Spenser.

ONEMENT
One"ment, n.

Defn: The state of being at one or reconciled. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ONENESS
One"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being one; singleness in number; individuality;
unity.
Our God is one, or rather very oneness. Hooker.

ONERARY
On"er*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. onerarius, fr. onus, oneris, load, burden:
cf.F. onéraire.]

Defn: Fitted for, or carrying, a burden. Johnson.

ONERATE
On"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Onerated; p. pr. & vb. n. Onerating.]
Etym: [L. oneratus, p.p. pf onerare.]

Defn: To load; to burden. [Obs.] Becon.

ONERATION
On`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of loading. [Obs.]

ONEROUS
On"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. onerosus, fr. onus, oneris, a load, burden:
cf.F. onéreux.]

Defn: Burdensome; oppressive. "Too onerous a solicitude." I. Taylor.
Onerous cause (Scots Law), a good and legal consideration; -- opposed
to gratuitous.

ONEROUSLY
On"er*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an onerous manner.

ONES
Ones, adv.

Defn: Once. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ONESELF
One`self", pron.

Defn: A reflexive form of the indefinite pronoun one. Commonly writen
as two words, one's self.
One's self (or more properly oneself), is quite a modern form. In
Elizabethan English we find a man's self=one's self. Morris.

ONE-SIDED
One`-sid"ed, a.

1. Having one side only, or one side prominent; hence, limited to one
side; partial; unjust; unfair; as, a one-sided view or statement.
"Unguarded and one-sided language." T. Arnold.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing on one side of a stem; as, one-sided flowers.
 -- One`-sid"ed-ly, adv.
 -- One`-sid"ed*ness, n.

ONETHE
On*ethe", adv.

Defn: Scarcely. See Unnethe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ONGOING
On"go`ing, n.

Defn: The act of going forward; progress; (pl.) affairs; business;
current events.
The common ongoings of this our commonplace world, and everyday life.
Prof. Wilson.

ONGUENT
On"guent, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An unguent.

ON-HANGER
On"-hang`er, n.

Defn: A hanger-on.

ONION
On"ion, n. Etym: [F. ognon, fr. L. unio oneness, unity, a single
large pearl, an onion. See One, Union.] (Bot.)

Defn: A liliaceous plant of the genus Allium (A.cepa), having a
strong-flavored bulb and long hollow leaves; also, its bulbous root,
much used as an article of food. The name is often extended to other
species of the genus. Onion fish (Zoöl.), the grenadier.
 -- Onion fly (Zoöl.) a dipterous insect whose larva feeds upon the
onion; especially, Anthomyia ceparum and Ortalis flexa.
 -- Welsh onion. (Bot.) See Cibol.
 -- Wild onion (Bot.), a name given to several species of the genus
Allium.

ONIONSKIN
On"ion*skin`, n.  [Onion + skin.]

Defn: A kind of thin translucent paper with a glossy finish.

ONIROCRITIC
O*ni`ro*crit`ic, a.

Defn: See Oneirocritic.

ONLINESS
On"li*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being alone. [Obs.]

ONLOFT
On*loft", adv.

Defn: Aloft; above ground. [Obs.]
She kept her father's life onloft. Chaucer.

ON-LOOKER
On"-look`er, n.

Defn: A looker-on.

ON-LOOKING
On"-look`ing, a.

Defn: Looking on or forward.

ONLY
On"ly, a. Etym: [OE. only, anly, onlich, AS. anlic, i.e., onelike.
See One, and Like, a.]

1. One alone; single; as, the only man present; his only occupation.

2. Alone in its class; by itself; not associated with others of the
same class or kind; as, an only child.

3. Hence, figuratively: Alone, by reason of superiority; preëminent;
chief. "Motley's the only wear." Shak.

ONLY
On"ly, adv. Etym: [See Only, a.]

1. In one manner or degree; for one purpose alone; simply; merely;
barely.
And to be loved himself, needs only to be known. Dryden.

2. So and no otherwise; no other than; exclusively; solely; wholly.
"She being only wicked." Beau. & Fl.
Every imagination . . . of his heart was only evil. Gen. vi. 5.

3. Singly; without more; as, only-begotten.

4. Above all others; particularly. [Obs.]
His most only elected mistress. Marston.

ONLY
On"ly, conj.

Defn: Save or except (that); -- an adversative used elliptically with
or without that, and properly introducing a single fact or
consideration.
He might have seemed some secretary or clerk . . . only that his low,
flat, unadorned cap . . . indicated that he belonged to the city. Sir
W. Scott.

ONOCERIN
On`o*ce"rin, n. Etym: [NL. Ononis, the generic name of the plant + L.
cera wax.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline waxy substance extracted from the root of
the leguminous plant Ononis spinosa.

ONOLOGY
O*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: Foolish discourse. [R.]

ONOMANCY
On"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy. Cf. Nomancy.]

Defn: Divination by the letters of a name; nomancy. [R.] Camden.

ONOMANTIC; ONOMANTICAL
On`o*man"tic, On`o*man"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to onomancy. [R.]

ONOMASTIC
On`o*mas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Law)

Defn: Applied to a signature when the body of the instrument is in
another's handwriting. Burrill.

ONOMASTICON
On`o*mas"ti*con, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Onomastic.]

Defn: A collection of names and terms; a dictionary; specif., a
collection of Greek names, with explanatory notes, made by Julius
Pollux about A.D.180.

ONOMATECHNY
On"o*ma*tech`ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Prognostication by the letters of a name.

ONOMATOLOGIST
On`o*ma*tol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in the history of names. Southey.

ONOMATOLOGY
On`o*ma*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of names or of their classification.

ONOMATOPE
O*nom"a*tope, n. Etym: [See Onomatopoeia.]

Defn: An imitative word; an onomatopoetic word.

ONOMATOPOEIA
On`o*mat`o*poe"ia, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Philol.)

Defn: The formation of words in imitation of sounds; a figure of
speech in which the sound of a word is imitative of the sound of the
thing which the word represents; as, the buzz of bees; the hiss of a
goose; the crackle of fire.

Note: It has been maintained by some philologist that all primary
words, especially names, were formed by imitation of natural sounds.

ONOMATOPOEIC
On`o*mat`o*poe"ic, a.

Defn: Onomatopoetic. Whitney.

ONOMATOPOETIC
On`o*mat`o*po*et"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to onomatopoeia; characterized by
onomatopoeia; imitative; as, an onomatopoetic writer or word. Earle.

ONOMATOPY
On`o*mat"o*py, n.

Defn: Onomatopoeia.

ONOMOMANCY
O*nom"o*man`cy, n.

Defn: See Onomancy.

ONONDAGAS
On`on*da"gas, n. pl.; sing. Onondaga (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting what is now a part of
the State of New York. They were the central or head tribe of the
Five Nations.

ONRUSH
On"rush`, n.

Defn: A rushing onward.

ONSET
On"set`, n. Etym: [On + set.]

1. A rushing or setting upon; an attack; an assault; a storming;
especially, the assault of an army. Milton.
The onset and retire Of both your armies. Shak.
Who on that day the word of onset gave. Wordsworth.

2. A setting about; a beginning. [Obs.] Shak.
There is surely no greater wisdom than well to time the beginnings
and onsets of things. Bacon.

3. Anything set on, or added, as an ornament or as a useful
appendage. [Obs.] Johnson.

ONSET
On"set`, v. t.

1. To assault; to set upon. [Obs.]

2. To set about; to begin. [Obs.] Carew.

ONSLAUGHT
On"slaught`, n. Etym: [OE. on on + slaught, slaht, slaughter. See
Slaughter.]

1. An attack; an onset; esp., a furious or murderous attack or
assault.
By storm and onslaught to proceed. Hudibras.

2. A bloody fray or battle. [Scot.] Jamieson.

ONSTEAD
On"stead, n. Etym: [Possibly a corruption of homestead.]

Defn: A single farmhouse; a steading. [Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Grose.
Jamieson.

ONTO
On"to, prep. Etym: [On + to. Cf. Into.]

Defn: On the top of; upon; on. See On to, under On, prep.

ONTOGENESIS; ONTOGENY
On`to*gen"e*sis, On*tog"e*ny, n. Etym: [See Ontology, and Genesis.]
(Biol.)

Defn: The history of the individual development of an organism; the
history of the evolution of the germ; the development of an
individual organism, -- in distinction from phylogeny, or evolution
of the tribe. Called also henogenesis, henogeny.

ONTOGENETIC
On`to*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to ontogenesis; as, ontogenetic phenomena.
 -- On`to*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.

ONTOGENIC
On`to*gen"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Ontogenetic.

ONTOLOGIC
On`to*log"ic, a.

Defn: Ontological.

ONTOLOGICAL
On`to*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ontologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to ontology.

ONTOLOGICALLY
On`*to*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ontological manner.

ONTOLOGIST
On*tol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf.F. ontologiste.]

Defn: One who is versed in or treats of ontology. Edin. Rev.

ONTOLOGY
On*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf.F. ontologie.]

Defn: That department of the science of metaphysics which
investigates and explains the nature and essential properties and
relations of all beings, as such, or the principles and causes of
being.

ONUS
O"nus, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A burden; an obligation. Onus probandi ( Etym: [L.], obligation
to furnish evidence to prove a thing; the burden of proof.

ONWARD
On"ward, a.

1. Moving in a forward direction; tending toward a contemplated or
desirable end; forward; as, an onward course, progress, etc.

2. Advanced in a forward direction or toward an end.
Within a while, Philoxenus came to see how onward the fruits were of
his friend's labor. Sir P. Sidney.

ONWARD
On"ward, adv.

Defn: Toward a point before or in front; forward; progressively; as,
to move onward.
Not one looks backward, onward still he goes. Pope.

ONWARDNESS
On"ward*ness, n.

Defn: Progress; advancement.

ONWARDS
On"wards, adv. Etym: [See -wards.]

Defn: Onward.

ONY
On"y, a.

Defn: Any. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ONYCHA
On"y*cha, n. Etym: [NL., from L. onyx, -ychis, onyx, also, a kind of
mussel, Gr. Onyx.]

1. An ingredient of the Mosaic incense, probably the operculum of
some kind of strombus. Ex. xxx. 34.

2. The precious stone called onyx. [R.]

ONYCHIA
O*nych"i*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Onyx.] (Med.)
(a) A whitlow.
(b) An affection of a finger or toe, attended with ulceration at the
base of the nail, and terminating in the destruction of the nail.

ONYCHOMANCY
On"y*cho*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. onychomancie.]

Defn: Divination by the nails.

ONYCHOPHORA
On`y*choph"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Malacopoda.

ONYX
O"nyx, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Nail, and cf. Onycha.] (Min.)

Defn: Chalcedony in parallel layers of different shades of color. It
is used for making cameos, the figure being cut in one layer with the
next as a ground. Onyx marble, a banded variety of marble or calcium
carbonate resembling onyx. It is obtained from Mexico.

OO
Oo, a.

Defn: One. [Obs.] Chaucer.

OO
O"ö, n. Etym: [Hawaiian.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beautiful bird (Moho nobilis) of the Hawaiian Islands. It
yields the brilliant yellow feathers formerly used in making the
royal robes. Called also yellow-tufted honeysucker.

OOECIUM
O*oe"ci*um, n.; pl. Ooecia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the special zooids, or cells, of Bryozoa, destined to
receive and develop ova; an ovicell. See Bryozoa.

OOGENESIS; OOEGENESIS
O`ö*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. genesis.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The development, or mode of origin, of the ova.

OOGONIUM; OOEGONIUM
O`ö*go"ni*um, n.; pl. L. Oögonia, E. Oögoniums. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
(Bot.)

Defn: A special cell in certain cryptogamous plants containing
oöspheres, as in the rockweeds (Fucus), and the orders Vaucherieæ and
Peronosporeæ.

OOIDAL
O*oi"dal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Shaped like an egg.

OOK
Ook, n.

Defn: Oak. [Obs.] "A branched ook." Chaucer.

OOLITE; OOELITE
O"ö*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf.F. oölithe. So named from its
resemblance to the roe of fish.] (Geol.)

Defn: A variety of limestone, consisting of small round grains,
resembling the roe of a fish. It sometimes constitutes extensive
beds, as in the European Jurassic. See the Chart of Geology.

OOLITIC; OOELITIC
O`ö*lit"ic, a. Etym: [Cf.F. oölithique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to oölite; composed of, or resembling, oölite.

OOLOGICAL; OOELOGICAL
O`ö*log"ic*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to oölogy.

OOLOGIST; OOELOGIST
O*öl"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in oölogy.

OOLOGY; OOELOGY
O*öl"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of eggs in relation to their coloring, size, shape,
and number.

OOLONG
Oo"long, n. Etym: [Chinese, green dragon.]

Defn: A fragrant variety of black tea having somewhat the flavor of
green tea. [Written also oulong.]

OOMIAC; OOMIAK
Oo"mi*ac, Oo"mi*ak, n.

Defn: A long, broad boat used by the Eskimos.

OON
Oon, a.

Defn: One. [Obs.] Chaucer.

OONES
Oones, adv.

Defn: Once. [Obs.] Chaucer.

OOP
Oop, v. t. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: To bind with a thread or cord; to join; to unite. [Scot.]
Jamieson.

OOPACK; OOPAK
Oo"pack, Oo"pak, n. Etym: [So named from a district in China.]

Defn: A kind of black tea.

OOPHORE; OOEPHORE
O"ö*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An alternately produced form of certain cryptogamous plants, as
ferns, mosses, and the like, which bears antheridia and archegonia,
and so has sexual fructification, as contrasted with the sporophore,
which is nonsexual, but produces spores in countless number. In ferns
the oöphore is a minute prothallus; in mosses it is the leafy plant.

OOPHORECTOMY; OOEPHORECTOMY
O`ö*pho*rec"to*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: Ovariotomy.

OOPHORIC; OOEPHORIC
O`ö*phor"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the nature of, or belonging to, an oöphore.

OOPHORIDIUM; OOEPHORIDIUM
O`ö*pho*rid"i*um, n.; pl. L. Oöphorida, E. Oöphoridiums. Etym: [NL.,
dim. fr. Gr. Oöphore.] (Bot.)

Defn: The macrosporangium or case for the larger kind of spores in
heterosporous flowerless plants.

OOPHORITIS; OOEPHORITIS
O`ö*pho*ri"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Ovaritis.

OOPHYTE; OOEPHYTE
O"ö*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of a proposed class or grand division (collectively
termed oöphytes or Oöphyta), which have their sexual reproduction
accomplished by motile antherozoids acting on oöspheres, either while
included in their oögonia or after exclusion.

Note: This class was at first called Oösporeæ, and is made to include
all algæ and fungi which have this kind of reproduction, however they
may differ in all other respects, the contrasted classes of
Thallophytes being Protophytes, Zygophytes, and Carpophytes. The
whole system has its earnest advocates, but is rejected by many
botanists. See Carpophyte.

OOPHYTIC; OOEPHYTIC
O`ö*phyt"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an oöphyte.

OORDOBA
Cór"do*ba (kôr"do*vä), n. [Prob. fr. the Spanish explorer Francisco
Hernández de Córdoba.]

Defn: The monetary unit of Nicaragua, equivalent to the United States
gold dollar.

OORIAL; OOERIAL
O*ö"ri*al, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wild, bearded sheep inhabiting the Ladakh mountains. It is
reddish brown, with a dark beard from the chin to the chest.

OOSPERM; OOESPERM
O"ö*sperm, n. Etym: [Gr. sperm.] (Biol.)

Defn: The ovum, after fusion with the spermatozoön in impregnation.
Balfour.

OOSPHERE; OOESPHERE
O"ö*sphere, n. Etym: [Gr. sphere.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An unfertilized, rounded mass of protoplasm, produced in an
oögonium.

Note: After being fertilized by the access of antherozoids it becomes
covered with a cell wall and develops into an oöspore, which may grow
into a new plant like the parent.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An analogous mass of protoplasm in the ovule of a flowering
plant; an embryonic vesicle. Goodale.

OOSPORANGIUM; OOESPORANGIUM
O`ö*spo*ran"gi*um, n.; pl. L. Oösporangia, E. Oösporangiums. Etym:
[NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An oögonium; also, a case containing oval or rounded spores of
some other kind than oöspores.

OOSPORE; OOESPORE
O"ö*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A special kind of spore resulting from the fertilization of an
oösphere by antherozoids.
(b) A fertilized oösphere in the ovule of a flowering plant.

OOSPORIC; OOESPORIC
O`ö*spor"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an oöspore.

OOSTEGITE; OOESTEGITE
O*ös"te*gite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the plates which in some Crustacea inclose a cavity
wherein the eggs are hatched.

OOTHECA; OOETHECA
O`ö*the"ca, n.; pl. Oöthecæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An egg case, especially those of many kinds of mollusks, and of
some insects, as the cockroach. Cf. Ooecium.

OOTOOID; OOETOOID; OOTOCOID; OOETOCOID
O*öt"*ooid, O*öt"o*coid, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A half oviparous, or an oviparous, mammal; a marsupial or
monotreme.

OOTYPE; OOETYPE
O"ö*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The part of the oviduct of certain trematode worms in which the
ova are completed and furnished with a shell.

OOZE
Ooze, n. Etym: [OE. wose, AS. wase dirt, mire, mud, akin to w juice,
ooze, Icel. vas wetness, OHG. waso turf, sod, G. wasen.]

1. Soft mud or slime; earth so wet as to flow gently, or easily yield
to pressure. "My son i' the ooze is bedded." Shak.

2. Soft flow; spring. Prior.

3. The liquor of a tan vat.

OOZE
Ooze, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Oozed; p.pr. & vb.n. Oozing.] Etym: [Prov.
Eng. weeze, wooz. See Ooze, n.]

1. To flow gently; to percolate, as a liquid through the pores of a
substance or through small openings.
The latent rill, scare oozing through the grass. Thomson.

2. Fig.: To leak (out) or escape slowly; as, the secret oozed out;
his courage oozed out.

OOZE
Ooze, v. t.

Defn: To cause to ooze. Alex. Smith.

OOZE LEATHER
Ooze leather.

Defn: Leather made from sheep and calf skins by mechanically forcing
ooze through them; esp., such leather with a soft, finely granulated
finish (called sometimes velvet finish) put on the flesh side for
special purposes. Ordinary ooze leather is used for shoe uppers, in
bookbinding, etc. Hence Ooze calf, Ooze finish, etc.

OOZOA; OOEZOA
O`ö*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Acrita.

OOZY
Ooz"y, a.

Defn: Miry; containing soft mud; resembling ooze; as, the oozy bed of
a river. Pope.

OPACATE
O*pa"cate, v. t. Etym: [L. opacatus, p.p. of opacare.]

Defn: To darken; to cloud. [Obs.] Boyle.

OPACITY
O*pac"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. opacitas: cf.F. opacité.]

1. The state of being opaque; the quality of a body which renders it
impervious to the rays of light; want of transparency; opaqueness.

2. Obscurity; want of clearness. Bp. Hall.

OPACOUS
O*pa"cous, a. Etym: [L. opacus. See Opaque.]

Defn: Opaque. [R.] Milton.
 -- O*pa"cous*ness, n. [R.]

OPACULAR
O*pac"u*lar, a.

Defn: Opaque. [Obs.] Sterne.

OPAH
O"pah, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large oceanic fish (Lampris quttatus), inhabiting the
Atlantic Ocean. It is remarkable for its brilliant colors, which are
red, green, and blue, with tints of purple and gold, covered with
round silvery spots. Called also king of the herrings.

OPAKE
O*pake", a.

Defn: See Opaque.

OPAL
O"pal, n. Etym: [L. opalus: cf. Gr. upala a rock, stone, precious
stone: cf. F. opale.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral consisting, like quartz, of silica, but inferior to
quartz in hardness and specific gravity.

Note: The precious opal presents a peculiar play of colors of
delicate tints, and is highly esteemed as a gem. One kind, with a
varied play of color in a reddish ground, is called the harlequin
opal. The fire opal has colors like the red and yellow of flame.
Common opal has a milky appearance. Menilite is a brown impure
variety, occurring in concretions at Menilmontant, near Paris. Other
varieties are cacholong, girasol, hyalite, and geyserite.

OPALESCE
O`pal*esce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Opalesced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Opalescing.]

Defn: To give forth a play of colors, like the opal.

OPALESCENCE
O`pal*es"cence, n. (Min.)

Defn: A reflection of a milky or pearly light from the interior of a
mineral, as in the moonstone; the state or quality of being
opalescent.

OPALESCENT
O`pal*es"cent, a.

Defn: Reflecting a milky or pearly light from the interior; having an
opaline play of colors.

OPALINE
O"pal*ine, a. Etym: [Cf. F. opalin.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, opal in appearance; having
changeable colors like those of the opal.

OPALIZE
O"pal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Opalized; p. pr. & vb. n. Opalizing.]
Etym: [Cf. F. opaliser.]

Defn: To convert into opal, or a substance like opal. Lyell.

OPALOTYPE
O*pal"o*type, n. Etym: [Opal + -type.] (Photog.)

Defn: A picture taken on "milky" glass.

OPAQUE
O*paque", a. Etym: [F., fr. L. opacus. Cf. Opacous.]

1. Impervious to the rays of light; not transparent; as, an opaque
substance.

2. Obscure; not clear; unintelligible. [Colloq.]

OPAQUE
O*paque", n.

Defn: That which is opaque; opacity. Young.

OPAQUENESS
O*paque"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being impervious to light; opacity. Dr.
H. More.

OPE
Ope, a.

Defn: Open. [Poetic] Spenser.
On Sunday heaven's gate stands ope. Herbert.

OPE
Ope, v. t. & i.

Defn: To open. [Poetic]
Wilt thou not ope thy heart to know What rainbows teach and sunsets
show Emerson.

OPEIDOSCOPE
O*pei"do*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument, consisting of a tube having one end open and the
other end covered with a thin flexible membrance to the center of
which is attached a small mirror. It is used for exhibiting upon a
screen, by means of rays reflected from the mirror, the vibratory
motions caused by sounds produced at the open end of the tube, as by
speaking or singing into it. A. E. Dolbear.

OPELET
Ope"let, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bright-colored European actinian (Anemonia, or Anthea,
sulcata); -- so called because it does not retract its tentacles.

OPEN
O"pen, a. Etym: [AS. open; akin to D. open, OS. opan, G. offan, Icel.
opinn, Sw. öppen, Dan. aaben, and perh. to E. up. Cf. Up, and Ope.]

1. Free of access; not shut up; not closed; affording unobstructed
ingress or egress; not impeding or preventing passage; not locked up
or covered over; -- applied to passageways; as, an open door, window,
road, etc.; also, to inclosed structures or objects; as, open houses,
boxes, baskets, bottles, etc.; also, to means of communication or
approach by water or land; as, an open harbor or roadstead.
Through the gate, Wide open and unquarded, Satan passed. Milton

Note: Also, figuratively, used of the ways of communication of the
mind, as by the senses; ready to hear, see, etc.; as, to keep one's
eyes and ears open.
His ears are open unto their cry. Ps. xxxiv. 15.

2. Free to be used, enjoyed, visited, or the like; not private;
public; unrestricted in use; as, an open library, museum, court, or
other assembly; liable to the approach, trespass, or attack of any
one; unprotected; exposed.
If Demetrius . . . have a matter against any man, the law is open and
there are deputies. Acts xix. 33.
The service that I truly did his life, Hath left me open to all
injuries. Shak.

3. Free or cleared of obstruction to progress or to view; accessible;
as, an open tract; the open sea.

4. Not drawn together, closed, or contracted; extended; expanded; as,
an open hand; open arms; an open flower; an open prospect.
Each, with open arms, embraced her chosen knight. Dryden.

5. Hence:
(a) Without reserve or false pretense; sincere; characterized by
sincerity; unfeigned; frank; also, generous; liberal; bounteous; --
applied to personal appearance, or character, and to the expression
of thought and feeling, etc.
With aspect open, shall erect his head. Pope.
The Moor is of a free and open nature. Shak.
The French are always open, familiar, and talkative. Addison.

(b) Not concealed or secret; not hidden or disguised; exposed to view
or to knowledge; revealed; apparent; as, open schemes or plans; open
shame or guilt.
His thefts are too open. Shak.
That I may find him, and with secret gaze Or open admiration him
behold. Milton.

6. Not of a quality to prevent communication, as by closing water
ways, blocking roads, etc.; hence, not frosty or inclement; mild; --
used of the weather or the climate; as, an open season; an open
winter. Bacon.

7. Not settled or adjusted; not decided or determined; not closed or
withdrawn from consideration; as, an open account; an open question;
to keep an offer or opportunity open.

8. Free; disengaged; unappropriated; as, to keep a day open for any
purpose; to be open for an engagement.

9. (Phon.)
(a) Uttered with a relatively wide opening of the articulating
organs; -- said of vowels; as, the än fär is open as compared with
the a in say.
(b) Uttered, as a consonant, with the oral passage simply narrowed
without closure, as in uttering s.

10. (Mus.)
(a) Not closed or stopped with the finger; -- said of the string of
an instrument, as of a violin, when it is allowed to vibrate
throughout its whole length.
(b) Produced by an open string; as, an open tone. The open air, the
air out of doors.
 -- Open chain. (Chem.) See Closed chain, under Chain.
 -- Open circuit (Elec.), a conducting circuit which is incomplete,
or interrupted at some point; -- opposed to an uninterrupted, or Ant:
closed circuit.
 -- Open communion, communion in the Lord's supper not restricted to
persons who have been baptized by immersion. Cf. Close communion,
under Close, a.
 -- Open diapason (Mus.), a certain stop in an organ, in which the
pipes or tubes are formed like the mouthpiece of a flageolet at the
end where the wind enters, and are open at the other end.
 -- Open flank (Fort.), the part of the flank covered by the orillon.
 -- Open-front furnace (Metal.), a blast furnace having a forehearth.
 -- Open harmony (Mus.), harmony the tones of which are widely
dispersed, or separated by wide intervals.
 -- Open hawse (Naut.), a hawse in which the cables are parallel or
slightly divergent. Cf. Foul hawse, under Hawse.
 -- Open hearth (Metal.), the shallow hearth of a reverberatory
furnace.
 -- Open-hearth furnace, a reverberatory furnace; esp., a kind of
reverberatory furnace in which the fuel is gas, used in manufacturing
steel.
 -- Open-hearth process (Steel Manuf.), a process by which melted
cast iron is converted into steel by the addition of wrought iron, or
iron ore and manganese, and by exposure to heat in an open-hearth
furnace; -- also called the Siemens-Martin process, from the
inventors.
 -- Open-hearth steel, steel made by an open-hearth process; -- also
called Siemens-Martin steel.
 -- Open newel. (Arch.) See Hollow newel, under Hollow.
 -- Open pipe (Mus.), a pipe open at the top. It has a pitch about an
octave higher than a closed pipe of the same length.
 -- Open-timber roof (Arch.), a roof of which the constructional
parts, together with the under side of the covering, or its lining,
are treated ornamentally, and left to form the ceiling of an
apartment below, as in a church, a public hall, and the like.
 -- Open vowel or consonant. See Open, a., 9.

Note: Open is used in many compounds, most of which are self-
explaining; as, open-breasted, open-minded.

Syn.
 -- Unclosed; uncovered; unprotected; exposed; plain; apparent;
obvious; evident; public; unreserved; frank; sincere; undissembling;
artless. See Candid, and Ingenuous.

OPEN
O"pen, n.

Defn: Open or unobstructed space; clear land, without trees or
obstructions; open ocean; open water. "To sail into the open." Jowett
(Thucyd. ).
Then we got into the open. W. Black.
In open, in full view; without concealment; openly. [Obs.] Beau. &
Fl.

OPEN
O"pen v. t. [imp. & p. p. Opened; p. pr. & vb. n. Opening.] Etym:
[AS. openian. See Open,a.]

1. To make or set open; to render free of access; to unclose; to
unbar; to unlock; to remove any fastening or covering from; as, to
open a door; to open a box; to open a room; to open a letter.
And all the windows of my heart I open to the day. Whittier.

2. To spread; to expand; as, to open the hand.

3. To disclose; to reveal; to interpret; to explain.
The king opened himself to some of his council, that he was sorry for
the earl's death. Bacon.
Unto thee have I opened my cause. Jer. xx. 12.
While he opened to us the Scriptures. Luke xxiv. 32.

4. To make known; to discover; also, to render available or
accessible for settlements, trade, etc.
The English did adventure far for to open the North parts of America.
Abp. Abbot.

5. To enter upon; to begin; as, to open a discussion; to open fire
upon an enemy; to open trade, or correspondence; to open a case in
court, or a meeting.

6. To loosen or make less compact; as, to open matted cotton by
separating the fibers. To open one's mouth, to speak.
 -- To open up, to lay open; to discover; to disclose.
Poetry that had opened up so many delightful views into the character
and condition of our "bold peasantry, their country's pride." Prof.
Wilson.

OPEN
O"pen, v. i.

1. To unclose; to form a hole, breach, or gap; to be unclosed; to be
parted.
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of
Abiram. Ps. cvi. 17.

2. To expand; to spread out; to be disclosed; as, the harbor opened
to our view.

3. To begin; to commence; as, the stock opened at par; the battery
opened upon the enemy.

4. (Sporting)

Defn: To bark on scent or view of the game.

OPEN-AIR
O"pen-air`, a.

Defn: Taking place in the open air; outdoor; as, an open-air game or
meeting.

OPENBILL
O"pen*bill`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the genus Anastomus, allied to the stork; -- so
called because the two parts of the bill touch only at the base and
tip. One species inhabits India, another Africa. Called also open-
beak. See Illust. (m), under Beak.

OPEN DOOR
O"pen door.
 (a) Open or free admission to all; hospitable welcome; free
opportunity.

She of the open soul and open door,
With room about her hearth for all mankind.
Lowell.

(b) In modern diplomacy, opportunity for political and commercial
intercourse open to all upon equal terms, esp. with reference to a
nation whose policy is wholly or partially fixed by nations foreign
to itself, or to territory newly acquired by a conquering nation. In
this sense, often used adjectively, as, open-door system, open-door
policy, etc.

The steps taken by Britain to maintain the open door have so far
proved to be perfectly futile.
A. R. Colquhoun.

OPENER
O"pen*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, opens. "True opener of my eyes."
Milton.

OPEN-EYED
O"pen-eyed`, a.

Defn: With eyes widely open; watchful; vigilant. Shak.

OPEN-HANDED
O"pen-hand`ed, a.

Defn: Generous; liberal; munificent.
 -- O"pen-hand`ed*ness, n. J. S. Mill.

OPEN-HEADED
O"pen-head`ed, a.

Defn: Bareheaded. [Obs.]

OPEN-HEARTED
O"pen-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Candid; frank; generous. Dryden.
 -- O"pen-heart`ed*ly, adv.
 -- O"pen-heart`ed*ness, n. Walton.

OPEN-HEARTH STEEL
Open-hearth steel.

Defn: See under Open.

OPENING
O"pen*ing, n.

1. The act or process of opening; a beginning; commencement; first
appearance; as, the opening of a speech.
The opening of your glory was like that of light. Dryden.

2. A place which is open; a breach; an aperture; a gap; cleft, or
hole.
We saw him at the opening of his tent. Shak.

3. Hence: A vacant place; an opportunity; as, an opening for
business. [Colloq.] Dickens.

4. A thinly wooded space, without undergrowth, in the midst of a
forest; as, oak openings. [U.S.] Cooper.

OPENLY
O"pen*ly, adv. Etym: [AS. openlice.]

1. In an open manner; publicly; not in private; without secrecy.
How grossly and openly do many of us contradict the precepts of the
gospel by our ungodliness! Tillotson.

2. Without reserve or disguise; plainly; evidently.
My love . . . shall show itself more openly. Shak.

OPEN-MOUTHED
O"pen-mouthed`, a.

Defn: Having the mouth open; gaping; hence, greedy; clamorous.
L'Estrange.

OPENNESS
O"pen*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being open.

OPEN SEA
Open sea. (Internat. Law)

Defn: A sea open to all nations. See Mare clausum.

OPEN VERDICT
Open verdict. (Law)

Defn: A verdict on a preliminary investigation, finding the fact of a
crime but not stating the criminal, or finding the fact of a violent
death without disclosing the cause.

OPENWORK
O"pen*work`, n.

1. Anything so constructed or manufactured (in needlework, carpentry,
metal work, etc.) as to show openings through its substance; work
that is perforated or pierced.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A quarry; an open cut. Raymond.

OPERA
Op"er*a, n. Etym: [It., fr. opera work, composition, opposed to an
improvisation, fr. L. opera pains work, fr. opus, operis, work,
labor: cf. F. opéra. See Operate.]

1. A drama, either tragic or comic, of which music forms an essential
part; a drama wholly or mostly sung, consisting of recitative,
arials, choruses, duets, trios, etc., with orchestral accompaniment,
preludes, and interludes, together with appropriate costumes,
scenery, and action; a lyric drama.

2. The score of a musical drama, either written or in print; a play
set to music.

3. The house where operas are exhibited. Opéra bouffe Etym: [F. opéra
opera + bouffe comic, It.buffo], Opera buffa Etym: [It.], light,
farcical, burlesque opera.
 -- Opera box, a partially inclosed portion of the auditorium of an
opera house for the use of a small private party.
 -- Opéra comique Etym: [F.], comic or humorous opera.
 -- Opera flannel, a light flannel, highly finished. Knight.
 -- Opera girl (Bot.), an East Indian plant (Mantisia saltatoria) of
the Ginger family, sometimes seen in hothouses. It has curious
flowers which have some resemblance to a ballet dancer, whence the
popular name. Called also dancing girls.
 -- Opera glass, a short telescope with concave eye lenses of low
power, usually made double, that is, with a tube and set of glasses
for each eye; a lorgnette; -- so called because adapted for use at
the opera, theater, etc.
 -- Opera hat, a gentleman's folding hat.
 -- Opera house, specifically, a theater devoted to the performance
of operas.
 -- Opera seria Etym: [It.], serious or tragic opera; grand opera.

OPERABLE
Op"er*a*ble, a.

Defn: Practicable. [Obs.]

OPERAMETER
Op`er*am"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. opus, operis, pl. opera work + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument or machine for measuring work done, especially
for ascertaining the number of rotations made by a machine or wheel
in manufacturing cloth; a counter. Ure.

OPERANCE; OPERANCY
Op"er*ance, Op"er*an*cy, n.

Defn: The act of operating or working; operation. [R.]

OPERAND
Op"er*and, n. Etym: [From neuter of L. operandus, gerundive of
operari. See Operate.] (Math.)

Defn: The symbol, quantity, or thing upon which a mathematical
operation is performed; -- called also faciend.

OPERANT
Op"er*ant, a. Etym: [L. operans, p.pr. of operari. See Operate.]

Defn: Operative. [R.] Shak.
 -- n.

Defn: An operative person or thing. [R.] Coleridge.

OPERATE
Op"er*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Operated; p. pr. & vb. n. Operating.]
Etym: [L. operatus, p.p. of operari to work, fr. opus, operis, work,
labor; akin to Skr. apas, and also to G. üben to exercise, OHG.
uoben, Icel. . Cf. Inure, Maneuver, Ure.]

1. To perform a work or labor; to exert power or strengh, physical or
mechanical; to act.

2. To produce an appropriate physical effect; to issue in the result
designed by nature; especially (Med.), to take appropriate effect on
the human system.

3. To act or produce effect on the mind; to exert moral power or
influence.
The virtues of private persons operate but on a few. Atterbury.
A plain, convincing reason operates on the mind both of a learned and
ignorant hearer as long as they live. Swift.

4. (Surg.)

Defn: To perform some manual act upon a human body in a methodical
manner, and usually with instruments, with a view to restore
soundness or health, as in amputation, lithotomy, etc.

5. To deal in stocks or any commodity with a view to speculative
profits. [Brokers' Cant]

OPERATE
Op"er*ate, v. t.

1. To produce, as an effect; to cause.
The same cause would operate a diminution of the value of stock. A.
Hamilton.

2. To put into, or to continue in, operation or activity; to work;
as, to operate a machine.

OPERATIC; OPERATICAL
Op`er**at"ic, Op`er*at"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the opera or to operas; characteristic of,
or resembling, the opera.

OPERATION
Op`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. operatio: cf. F. opération.]

1. The act or process of operating; agency; the exertion of power,
physical, mechanical, or moral.
The pain and sickness caused by manna are the effects of its
operation on the stomach. Locke.
Speculative painting, without the assistance of manual operation, can
never attain to perfection. Dryden.

2. The method of working; mode of action.

3. That which is operated or accomplished; an effect brought about in
accordance with a definite plan; as, military or naval operations.

4. Effect produced; influence. [Obs.]
The bards . . . had great operation on the vulgar. Fuller.

5. (Math.)

Defn: Something to be done; some transformation to be made upon
quantities, the transformation being indicated either by rules or
symbols.

6. (Surg.)

Defn: Any methodical action of the hand, or of the hand with
instruments, on the human body, to produce a curative or remedial
effect, as in amputation, etc. Calculus of operations. See under
Calculus.

OPERATIVE
Op"er*a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf.L. operativus, F. opératif.]

1. Having the power of acting; hence, exerting force, physical or
moral; active in the production of effects; as, an operative motive.
It holds in all operative principles. South.

2. Producing the appropriate or designed effect; efficacious; as, an
operative dose, rule, or penalty.

3. (Surg.)

Defn: Based upon, or consisting of, an operation or operations; as,
operative surgery.

OPERATIVE
Op"er*a*tive, n.

Defn: A skilled worker; an artisan; esp., one who operates a machine
in a mill or manufactory.

OPERATIVELY
Op"er*a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an operative manner.

OPERATOR
Op"er*a`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who, or that which, operates or produces an effect.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: One who performs some act upon the human body by means of the
hand, or with instruments.

3. A dealer in stocks or any commodity for speculative purposes; a
speculator. [Brokers' Cant]

4. (Math.)

Defn: The symbol that expresses the operation to be performed; --
called also facient.

OPERATORY
Op"er*a*to*ry, n.

Defn: A laboratory. [Obs.]

OPERCLE
O"per*cle, n. Etym: [Cf.F. opercule. See Operculum.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Any one of the bony plates which support the gill covers of
fishes; an opercular bone.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An operculum.

OPERCULA
O*per"cu*la, n. pl.

Defn: See Operculum.

OPERCULAR
O*per"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, an operculum.

OPERCULAR
O*per"cu*lar, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The principal opercular bone or operculum of fishes.

OPERCULATE; OPERCULATED
O*per"cu*late, O*per"cu*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. operculatus, p.p. of
operculare to furnish with a lid, fr. operculum lid.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Closed by a lid or cover, as the capsules of the mosses.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having an operculum, or an apparatus for protecting the gills;
-- said of shells and of fishes.

OPERCULIFEROUS
O*per`cu*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Operculum + -ferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Bearing an operculum.

OPERCULIFORM
O*per"cu*li*form, a. Etym: [L. operculum a cover + -form: cf. F.
operculiforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a lid or cover.

OPERCULIGENOUS
O*per`cu*lig`e*nous, a. Etym: [Operculum + -genous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Producing an operculum; -- said of the foot, or part of the
foot, of certain mollusks.

OPERCULUM
O*per"cu*lum, n.; pl. L. Opercula, E. Operculums. Etym: [L., a cover
or lid, fr. operire to cover.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) The lid of a pitcherform leaf.
(b) The lid of the urnlike capsule of mosses.

2. (Anat.)
(a) Any lidlike or operculiform process or part; as, the opercula of
a dental follicle.
(b) The fold of integument, usually supported by bony plates, which
protects the gills of most fishes and some amphibians; the gill
cover; the gill lid.
(c) The principal opercular bone in the upper and posterior part of
the gill cover.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) The lid closing the aperture of various species of shells, as the
common whelk. See Illust. of Gastropoda.
(b) Any lid-shaped structure closing the aperture of a tube or shell.

OPERETTA
Op`er*et"ta, n. Etym: [It., dim. of opera.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short, light, musical drama.

OPEROSE
Op"er*ose`. a. Etym: [L. operosus, fr. opera pains, labor, opus,
operis, work, labor.]

Defn: Wrought with labor; requiring labor; hence, tedious; wearisome.
"Operose proceeding." Burke. "A very operose calculation." De
Quincey.
 -- Op"er*ose`ly, adv.
 -- Op"er*ose`ness, n.

OPEROSITY
Op`er*os"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. operositas.]

Defn: Laboriousness. [R.] Bp. Hall.

OPEROUS
Op"er*ous, a.

Defn: Operose. [Obs.] Holder.
 -- Op"er*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.]

OPERTANEOUS
Op`er*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. opertaneus; operire to hide.]

Defn: Concealed; private. [R.]

OPETIDE
Ope"tide`, n. Etym: [Ope + tide.]

Defn: Open time; -- applied to different things:
(a) The early spring, or the time when flowers begin opening.
[Archaic] Nares.
(b) The time between Epiphany and Ash Wednesday wherein marriages
were formerly solemnized publicly in churches. [Eng.]
(c) The time after harvest when the common fields are open to all
kinds of stock. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell. [Written also opentide.]

OPHELIC
O*phel"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a substance (called ophelic
acid) extracted from a plant (Ophelia) of the Gentian family as a
bitter yellowish sirup, used in India as a febrifuge and tonic.

OPHICLEIDE
Oph"i*cleide, n. Etym: [F. ophicléide, fr. Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: A large brass wind instrument, formerly used in the orchestra
and in military bands, having a loud tone, deep pitch, and a compass
of three octaves; -- now generally supplanted by bass and contrabass
tubas. Moore (Encyc. of Music).

OPHIDIA
O*phid"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The order of reptiles which includes the serpents.

Note: The most important divisions are: the Solenoglypha, having
erectile perforated fangs, as the rattlesnake; the Proteroglypha, or
elapine serpents, having permanently erect fang, as the cobra; the
Asinea, or colubrine serpents, which are destitute of fangs; and the
Opoterodonta, or Epanodonta, blindworms, in which the mouth is not
dilatable.

OPHIDIAN
O*phid"i*an, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ophidien.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Ophidia; a snake or serpent.

OPHIDIAN
O*phid"i*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ophidien.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ophidia; belonging to serpents.

OPHIDIOID
O*phid"i*oid, a. Etym: [Ophidion + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ophidiidæ, a family of fishes which
includes many slender species.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Ophidiidæ.

OPHIDION
O*phid"i*on, n.; pl. Ophidia. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The typical genus of ophidioid fishes. [Written also Ophidium.]
See Illust. under Ophidioid.

OPHIDIOUS
O*phid"i*ous, a.

Defn: Ophidian.

OPHIOLATRY
O`phi*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The worship of serpents.

OPHIOLOGIC; OPHIOLOGICAL
O`phi*o*log"ic, O`phi*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ophiology.

OPHIOLOGIST
O`phi*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in the natural history of serpents.

OPHIOLOGY
O`phi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf.F. ophioloqie.]

Defn: That part of natural history which treats of the ophidians, or
serpents.

OPHIOMANCY
O"phi*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. ophiomantie.]

Defn: Divination by serpents, as by their manner of eating, or by
their coils.

OPHIOMORPHA
O`phi*o*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Ophiomorphous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of tailless amphibians having a slender, wormlike body
with regular annulations, and usually with minute scales imbedded in
the skin. The limbs are rudimentary or wanting. It includes the
cæcilians. Called also Gymnophiona and Ophidobatrachia.

OPHIOMORPHITE
O`phi*o*mor"phite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An ammonite.

OPHIOMORPHOUS
O`phi*o*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Gr. -morphous.]

Defn: Having the form of a serpent.

OPHIOPHAGOUS
O`phi*oph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. ophiophage.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding on serpents; -- said of certain birds and reptiles.

OPHIOPHAGUS
O`phi*oph"a*gus, n. Etym: [NL. See Ophiophagous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of venomous East Indian snakes, which feed on other
snakes. Ophiophagus elaps is said to be the largest and most deadly
of poisonous snakes.

OPHISM
Oph"ism, n.

1. Doctrines and rites of the Ophites.

2.  Serpent worship or the use of serpents as magical agencies.

OPHITE
O"phite, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a serpent. [Obs.]

OPHITE
O"phite, n. Etym: [L. ophites, Gr. ophite.] (Min.)

Defn: A greenish spotted porphyry, being a diabase whose pyroxene has
been altered to uralite; -- first found in the Pyreness. So called
from the colored spots which give it a mottled appearance.
 -- O*phi"ic, a.

OPHITE
O"phite, n. Etym: [L. Ophitae, pl. See Ophite, a.] (Eccl.Hist.)

Defn: A mamber of a Gnostic serpent-worshiping sect of the second
century.

OPHIUCHUS
O`phi*u"chus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation in the Northern Hemisphere, delineated as a man
holding a serpent in his hands; -- called also Serpentarius.

OPHIURA
O`phi*u"ra, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ophiurioid starfishes.

OPHIURAN
O`phi*u"ran, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ophiurioidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Ophiurioidea.

OPHIURID
O`phi*u"rid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Ophiurioid.

OPHIURIDA
O`phi*u"ri*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Ophiurioidea.

OPHIURIOID
O`phi*u"ri*oid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ophiurioidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Ophiurioidea. [Written also ophiuroid.]

OPHIURIOIDEA; OPHIUROIDEA
O`phi*u`ri*oi"de*a, O`phi*u*roi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of star-shaped echinoderms having a disklike body, with
slender, articulated arms, which are not grooved beneath and are
often very fragile; -- called also Ophiuroida and Ophiuridea. See
Illust. under Brittle star.

OPHRYON
Oph"ry*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The supraorbital point.

OPHTHALMIA
Oph*thal"mi*a, n. Etym: [F. ophthalmie, L. ophthalmia, fr. Gr. optic.
See Optic.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammation of the membranes or coats of the eye or of the
eyeball.

OPHTHALMIC
Oph*thal"mic, a. Etym: [Gr. ophthalmique. See Ophthalmia.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the eye; ocular; as the
ophthalmic, or orbitonasal, nerve, a division of the trigeminal,
which gives branches to the lachrymal gland, eyelids, nose, and
forehead. Ophthalmic region (Zoöl.), the space around the eyes.

OPHTHALMITE
Oph*thal"mite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An eyestalk; the organ which bears the compound eyes of decapod
Crustacea.

OPHTHALMOLOGICAL
Oph*thal`mo*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ophthalmology.

OPHTHALMOLOGIST
Oph`thal*mol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in ophthalmology; an oculist.

OPHTHALMOLOGY
Oph`thal*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. ophthalmologie.]

Defn: The science which treats of the structure, functions, and
diseases of the eye.

OPHTHALMOMETER
Oph`thal*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument devised by Helmholtz for measuring the size of a
reflected image on the convex surface of the cornea and lens of the
eye, by which their curvature can be ascertained.

OPHTHALMOSCOPE
Oph*thal"mo*scope, n. Etym: [From Gr. -scope.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for viewing the interior of the eye, particularly
the retina. Light is thrown into the eye by a mirror (usually
concave) and the interior is then examined with or without the aid of
a lens.
 -- Oph*thal`mo*scop"ic, a.

OPHTHALMOSCOPY
Oph`thal*mos"co*py, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ophthalmoscopie.]

1. A branch of physiognomy which deduces the knowledge of a person's
temper and character from the appearance of the eyes.

2. Examination of the eye with the ophthalmoscope.

OPHTHALMY
Oph*thal"my, n.

Defn: Same as Ophthalmia.

OPIANIC
O`pi*an"ic, a. Etym: [From Opium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained by
the oxidation of narcotine.

OPIANINE
O"pi*a*nine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid found in small quantity in opium. It is identical
with narcotine.

OPIANYL
O"pi*a*nyl, n. Etym: [Opianic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Meconin.

OPIATE
O"pi*ate, n. Etym: [From Opium: cf.F. opiat.]

1. Originally, a medicine of a thicker consistence than sirup,
prepared with opium. Parr.

2. Any medicine that contains opium, and has the quality of inducing
sleep or repose; a narcotic.

3. Anything which induces rest or inaction; that which quiets
uneasiness.
They chose atheism as an opiate. Bentley.