

PHYTOLACCA
Phy`to*lac"ca, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. lacca lac.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous plants, some of them having berries which
abound in intensely red juice; poke, or pokeweed.

PHYTOLITE
Phy"to*lite, n. Etym: [Phyto- + -lite: cf. F. phytolithe.]

Defn: An old name for a fossil plant.

PHYTOLITHOLOGIST
Phy`to*li*thol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in phytolithology; a paleobotanist.

PHYTOLITHOLOGY
Phy`to*li*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Phyto- + lithology.]

Defn: The branch of science which treats of fossil plants; -- usually
called paleobotany, sometimes paleophytology.

PHYTOLOGICAL
Phy`to*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. phytologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to phytology; botanical.

PHYTOLOGIST
Phy*tol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in phytology; a writer on plants; a botanist.
Evelyn.

PHYTOLOGY
Phy*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Phyto- + -logy: cf. F. phytologie.]

Defn: The science of plants; a description of the kinds and
properties of plants; botany. Sir T. Browne.

PHYTOMER; PHYTOMERON
Phy"to*mer, Phy*tom"e*ron, n. Etym: [NL. phytomeron, fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An organic element of a flowering plant; a phyton.

PHYTON
Phy"ton, n.; pl. Phytons. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the parts which by their repetition make up a flowering
plant, each being a single joint of a stem with its leaf or leaves; a
phytomer.

PHYTONOMY
Phy*ton"o*my, n. Etym: [Phyto- + Gr. phytonomie.]

Defn: The science of the origin and growth of plants.

PHYTOPATHOLOGIST
Phy`to*pa*thol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in diseases of plants.

PHYTOPATHOLOGY
Phy`to*pa*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Phyto- + pathology.]

Defn: The science of diseases to which plants are liable.

PHYTOPHAGA
Phy*toph"a*ga, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Hymenoptera; the sawflies.

PHYTOPHAGIC
Phy`to*phag"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Phytophagous.

PHYTOPHAGOUS
Phy*toph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Phyto- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding on plants; herbivorous; as, a phytophagous animal.

PHYTOPHAGY
Phy*toph"a*gy, n.

Defn: The eating of plants.

PHYTOPHYSIOLOGY
Phy`to*phys`i*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Phyto- + physiology.]

Defn: Vegetable physiology.

PHYTOTOMIST
Phy*tot"o*mist, n.

Defn: One versed in phytotomy.

PHYTOTOMY
Phy*tot"o*my, n. Etym: [Phyto- + Gr.

Defn: The dissection of plants; vegetable anatomy.

PHYTOZOARIA
Phy`to*zo*a"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Phytozoön.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Infusoria.

PHYTOZOON; PHYTOZOOEN
Phy`to*zo"ön, n.; pl. Phytozoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A plantlike animal. The term is sometimes applied to zoöphytes.

PHYZ
Phyz, n.

Defn: See Phiz.

PI
Pi, n. Etym: [See Pica, Pie magpie, service-book.] (Print.)

Defn: A mass of type confusedly mixed or unsorted. [Written also
pie.]

PI
Pi, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pied; p. pr. & vb. n. Pieing.] (Print.)

Defn: To put into a mixed and disordered condition, as type; to mix
and disarrange the type of; as, to pi a form. [Written also pie.]

PIACABA
Pi*aç"a*ba, n.

Defn: See Piassava.

PIACLE
Pi"a*cle, n. Etym: [L. piaculum a propitiatory sacrifice, that which
requires expiation, a wicked action, fr. piare to appease, to
expiate, pius pious.]

Defn: A heinous offense which requires expiation. [R.] Howell.

PIACULAR
Pi*ac"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. piacularis: cf. F. piaculaire.]

1. Expiatory; atoning. Sir G. C. Lewis.

2. Requiring expiation; criminal; atrociously bad. "Piacular
pollution." De Quincey.

PIACULARITY
Pi*ac`u*lar"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being piacular; criminality;
wickedness. De Quincey.

PIACULOUS
Pi*ac"u*lous, a.

Defn: Same as Piacular.

PIAL
Pi"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the pia mater.

PIA MATER
Pi"a ma"ter. Etym: [NL., fr. L. pia (fem. of pius tender, kind) +
mater mother.] (Anat.)

Defn: The delicate and highly vascular membrane immediately investing
the brain and spinal cord.

PIAN
Pian, n. Etym: [Pg. pian, epian, or. Sp. pian; from the native name
in South America: cf. F. pian.] (Med.)

Defn: The yaws. See Yaws.

PIANET
Pi"a*net`, n. Etym: [Cf. Pie magpie.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The magpie. [Written also pianate, and pyenate.]
(b) The lesser woodpecker. [Obs.] Bailey.

PIANETTE
Pi*a*nette", n. Etym: [Dim. of piano.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small piano; a pianino.

PIANINO
Pi`a*ni"no, n. Etym: [It., dim. of piano, adj. See Piano.] (Mus.)

Defn: A pianette, or small piano.

PIANISSIMO
Pi`a*nis"si*mo, a.Etym: [It., superl. of piano.] (Mus.)

Defn: Very soft; -- a direction to execute a passage as softly as
possible. (Abbrev. pp.)

PIANIST
Pi*an"ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pianiste, It. pianista.]

Defn: A performer, esp. a skilled performer, on the piano.

PIANO
Pi*a"no, a. & adv. Etym: [It., even, smooth, soft, fr. L. planus
even, level.] (Mus.)

Defn: Soft; -- a direction to the performer to execute a certain
passage softly, and with diminished volume of tone. (Abbrev. p.)

PIANO; PIANOFORTE
Pi*an"o, Pi*an"o*for`te, n. Etym: [It. piano soft (fr. L. planus
even, smooth; see Plain, a.) + It. forte strong, fr. L. fortis (see
Fort).] (Mus.)

Defn: A well-known musical instrument somewhat resembling the
harpsichord, and consisting of a sreies of wires of graduated length,
thickness, and tension, struck by hammers moved by keys. Dumb piano.
See Digitorium.
 -- Grand piano. See under Grand.
 -- Square piano, one with a horizontal frame and an oblong case.
 -- Upright piano, one with an upright frame and vertical wires.

PIANOGRAPH
Pi*an"o*graph, n. Etym: [Piano + -graph.] (Mus.)

Defn: A form of melodiograph applied to a piano.

PIAPEC
Pi"a*pec, n. Etym: [Cf. Pie a magpie.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West African pie (Ptilostomus Senegalensis).

PIARIST
Pi"a*rist, n. Etym: [L. pius pious.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One of a religious order who are the regular clerks of the
Scuole Pie (religious schools), an institute of secondary education,
founded at Rome in the last years of the 16th century. Addis &
Arnold.

PIASSAVA
Pi*as"sa*va, n. Etym: [Pg. piasaba.]

Defn: A fibrous product of two Brazilian palm trees (Attalea funifera
and Leopoldinia Piassaba), -- used in making brooms, and for other
purposes. Called also piaçaba and piasaba.

PIASTER
Pi*as"ter, n. Etym: [F. piastre, It. piastra a thin plate of metal, a
dollar, LL. piastra, fr. L. emplastrum. See Plaster.]

Defn: A silver coin of Spain and various other countries. See Peso.
The Spanish piaster (commonly called peso, or peso duro) is of about
the value of the American dollar. The Italian piaster, or scudo, was
worth from 80 to 100 cents. The Turkish and Egyptian piasters are now
worth about four and a half cents.

PIASTRE
Pi*as"tre, n.

Defn: See Piaster.

PIATION
Pi*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. piatio. See Piacle.]

Defn: The act of making atonement; expiation. [Obs.]

PIATTI
Pi*at"ti, n. pl. Etym: [It., prop., plates.] (Mus.)

Defn: Cymbals. [Written also pyatti.]

PIAZZA
Pi*az"za, n.; pl. Piazzas. Etym: [It., place, square, market place,
L. platea street, courtyard. See Place.]

Defn: An open square in a European town, especially an Italian town;
hence (Arch.), an arcaded and roofed gallery; a portico. In the
United States the word is popularly applied to a veranda.
We walk by the obelisk, and meditate in piazzas. Jer. Taylor.

PIBCORN
Pib"corn`, n. Etym: [W. pib pipe + corn horn.] (Mus.)

Defn: A wind instrument or pipe, with a horn at each end, -- used in
Wales.

PIBROCH
Pi"broch, n. Etym: [Gael. piobaireachd pipe music, fr. piobair a
piper, fr. pioba pipe, bagpipe, from English. See Pipe, n.]

Defn: A Highland air, suited to the particular passion which the
musician would either excite or assuage; generally applied to those
airs that are played on the bagpipe before the Highlanders when they
go out to battle. Jamieson.

PIC
Pic, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pic.]

Defn: A Turkish cloth measure, varying from 18 to 28 inches.

PICA
Pi"ca, n. Etym: [L. pica a pie, magpie; in sense 3 prob. named from
some resemblance to the colors of the magpie. Cf. Pie magpie.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The genus that includes the magpies.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A vitiated appetite that craves what is unfit for food, as
chalk, ashes, coal, etc.; chthonophagia.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A service-book. See Pie. [Obs.]

4. (Print.)

Defn: A size of type next larger than small pica, and smaller than
English.

Note: This line is printed in pica

Note: Pica is twice the size of nonpareil, and is used as a standard
of measurement in casting leads, cutting rules, etc., and also as a
standard by which to designate several larger kinds of type, as
double pica, two-line pica, four-line pica, and the like. Small pica
(Print.), a size of type next larger than long primer, and smaller
than pica.

Note: This line is printed in small pica

PICADOR
Pic`a*dor", n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A horseman armed with a lance, who in a bullfight receives the
first attack of the bull, and excites him by picking him without
attempting to kill him.

PICAMAR
Pic"a*mar`, n. Etym: [L. pix, picis, pitch + amarus bitter.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oily liquid hydrocarbon extracted from the creosote of
beechwood tar. It consists essentially of certain derivatives of
pyrogallol.

PICAPARE
Pic"a*pare, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The finfoot.

PICARD
Pic"ard, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of Adamites in the fifteenth century; -- so
called from one Picard of Flanders. See Adamite.

PICARESQUE
Pic`a*resque", a. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. picaro rogue.]

Defn: Applied to that class of literature in which the principal
personage is the Spanish picaro, meaning a rascal, a knave, a rogue,
an adventurer.

PICARIAE
Pi*ca"ri*æ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. picus a woodpecker.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive division of birds which includes the woodpeckers,
toucans, trogons, hornbills, kingfishers, motmots, rollers, and
goatsuckers. By some writers it is made to include also the cuckoos,
swifts, and humming birds.

PICARIAN
Pi*ca"ri*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Picariæ.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Picariæ.

PICAROON
Pic`a*roon", n. Etym: [Sp. picaron, aug. of picaro roguish, n., a
rogue.]

Defn: One who plunders; especially, a plunderer of wrecks; a pirate;
a corsair; a marauder; a sharper. Sir W. Temple.

PICAYUNE
Pic`a*yune", n. Etym: [From the language of the Caribs.]

Defn: A small coin of the value of six and a quarter cents. See
Fippenny bit. [Local, U.S.]

PICAYUNISH
Pic`a*yun"ish, a.

Defn: Petty; paltry; mean; as, a picayunish business. [Colloq. U.S.]

PICCADIL; PICCADILLY
Pic"ca*dil, Pic`ca*dil"ly, n. Etym: [OF. piccagilles the several
divisions of pieces fastened together about the brim of the collar of
a doublet, a dim. fr. Sp. picado, p.p. of picar to prick. See Pike.]

Defn: A high, stiff collar for the neck; also, a hem or band about
the skirt of a garment, -- worn by men in the 17th century.

PICCAGE
Pic"cage, n. Etym: [LL. piccadium, fr. F. piquer to prick.] (O. Eng.
Law)

Defn: Money paid at fairs for leave to break ground for booths.
Ainsworth.

PICCALILLI
Pic"ca*lil`li, n.

Defn: A pickle of various vegetables with pungent species, --
originally made in the East Indies.

PICCOLO
Pic"co*lo, n. Etym: [It., small.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A small, shrill flute, the pitch of which is an octave higher
than the ordinary flute; an octave flute.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A small upright piano.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: An organ stop, with a high, piercing tone.

PICE
Pice, n. Etym: [Hind. paisa]

Defn: A small copper coin of the East Indies, worth less than a cent.
Malcom.

PICEA
Pic"e*a, n. Etym: [L., the pitch pine, from pix, picis, pitch.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of coniferous trees of the northen hemisphere,
including the Norway spruce and the American black and white spruces.
These trees have pendent cones, which do not readily fall to pieces,
in this and other respects differing from the firs.

PICENE
Pi"cene, n. Etym: [See Piceous.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon (C

PICEOUS
Pic"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. piceus, fr. pix, picis, pitch.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to pitch; resembling pitch in color or
quality; pitchy.

PICHEY
Pi"chey, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Brazilian armadillo (Dasypus minutus); the little armadillo.
[Written also pichiy.]

PICHICIAGO
Pi`chi*ci*a"go, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, burrowing, South American edentate (Chlamyphorus
truncatus), allied to the armadillos. The shell is attached only
along the back. [Written also pichyciego.]

PICHURIM BEAN
Pich"u*rim bean`. (Bot.)

Defn: The seed of a Brazilian lauraceous tree (Nectandra Puchury) of
a taste and smell between those of nutmeg and of sassafras, --
sometimes used medicinally. Called also sassafras nut.

PICI
Pi"ci, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. picus a woodpecker.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of birds including the woodpeckers and wrynecks.

PICIFORM
Pi"ci*form, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Piciformes.

PICIFORMES
Pic`i*for"mes, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Picus, and -Form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of birds including the woodpeckers, toucans, barbets,
colies, kingfishes, hornbills, and some other related groups.

PICINE
Pi"cine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the woodpeckers (Pici), or to the
Piciformes.

PICK
Pick, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Picked; p. pr. & vb. n. Picking.] Etym:
[OE. picken, pikken, to prick, peck; akin to Icel. pikka, Sw. picka,
Dan. pikke, D. pikken, G. picken, F. piquer, W. pigo. Cf. Peck, v.,
Pike, Pitch to throw.]

1. To throw; to pitch. [Obs.]
As high as I could pick my lance. Shak.

2. To peck at, as a bird with its beak; to strike at with anything
pointed; to act upon with a pointed instrument; to pierce; to prick,
as with a pin.

3. To separate or open by means of a sharp point or points; as, to
pick matted wool, cotton, oakum, etc.

4. To open (a lock) as by a wire.

5. To pull apart or away, especially with the fingers; to pluck; to
gather, as fruit from a tree, flowers from the stalk, feathers from a
fowl, etc.

6. To remove something from with a pointed instrument, with the
fingers, or with the teeth; as, to pick the teeth; to pick a bone; to
pick a goose; to pick a pocket.
Did you pick Master Slender's purse Shak.
He picks clean teeth, and, busy as he seems With an old tavern quill,
is hungry yet. Cowper.

7. To choose; to select; to separate as choice or desirable; to cull;
as, to pick one's company; to pick one's way; -- often with out. "One
man picked out of ten thousand." Shak.

8. To take up; esp., to gather from here and there; to collect; to
bring together; as, to pick rags; -- often with up; as, to pick up a
ball or stones; to pick up information.

9. To trim. [Obs.] Chaucer. To pick at, to tease or vex by
pertinacious annoyance.
 -- To pick a bone with. See under Bone.
 -- To pick a thank, to curry favor. [Obs.] Robynson (More's Utopia).
 -- To pick off. (a) To pluck; to remove by picking. (b) To shoot or
bring down, one by one; as, sharpshooters pick off the enemy.
 -- To pick out. (a) To mark out; to variegate; as, to pick out any
dark stuff with lines or spots of bright colors. (b) To select from a
number or quantity.
 -- To pick to pieces, to pull apart piece by piece; hence [Colloq.],
to analyze; esp., to criticize in detail.
 -- To pick a quarrel, to give occasion of quarrel intentionally.
 -- To pick up. (a) To take up, as with the fingers. (b) To get by
repeated efforts; to gather here and there; as, to pick up a
livelihood; to pick up news.(c) to acquire (an infectious disease);
as, to pick up a cold on the airplane. (d) To meet (a person) and
induce to accompany one; as, to pick up a date at the mall. [See
several other defs in MW10]

PICK
Pick, v. i.

1. To eat slowly, sparingly, or by morsels; to nibble.
Why stand'st thou picking Is thy palate sore Dryden.

2. To do anything nicely or carefully, or by attending to small
things; to select something with care.

3. To steal; to pilfer. "To keep my hands from picking and stealing."
Book of Com. Prayer. To pick up, to improve by degrees; as, he is
picking up in health or business. [Colloq. U.S.]

PICK
Pick, n. Etym: [F. pic a pickax, a pick. See Pick, and cf. Pike.]

1. A sharp-pointed tool for picking; -- often used in composition;
as, a toothpick; a picklock.

2. (Mining & Mech.)

Defn: A heavy iron tool, curved and sometimes pointed at both ends,
wielded by means of a wooden handle inserted in the middle, -- used
by quarrymen, roadmakers, etc.; also, a pointed hammer used for
dressing millstones.

3. A pike or spike; the sharp point fixed in the center of a buckler.
[Obs.] "Take down my buckler . . . and grind the pick on 't." Beau. &
Fl.

4. Choice; right of selection; as, to have one's pick.
France and Russia have the pick of our stables. Ld. Lytton.

5. That which would be picked or chosen first; the best; as, the pick
of the flock.

6. (Print.)

Defn: A particle of ink or paper imbedded in the hollow of a letter,
filling up its face, and occasioning a spot on a printed sheet.
MacKellar.

7. (Painting)

Defn: That which is picked in, as with a pointed pencil, to correct
an unevenness in a picture.

8. (Weawing)

Defn: The blow which drives the shuttle, -- the rate of speed of a
loom being reckoned as so many picks per minute; hence, in describing
the fineness of a fabric, a weft thread; as, so many picks to an
inch. Pick dressing (Arch.), in cut stonework, a facing made by a
pointed tool, leaving the surface in little pits or depressions.
 -- Pick hammer, a pick with one end sharp and the other blunt, used
by miners.

PICKABACK
Pick"a*back`, adv.

Defn: On the back or shoulders; as, to ride pickback. [Written also
pickapack, pickback, and pickpack.]
A woman stooping to take a child pickaback. R,Jefferies.

PICKANINNY
Pick"a*nin`ny, n.; pl. Pickaninnies. Etym: [Cf. Sp. pequeño little,
young.]

Defn: A small child; especially, a negro or mulatto infant. [U.S. &
West Indies]

PICKAPACK
Pick"a*pack`, adv.

Defn: Pickaback.

PICKAX; PICKAXE
Pick"ax`, Pick"axe`, n. Etym: [A corruption of OE. pikois, pikeis, F.
picois, fr. pic. See Pick, n.]

Defn: A pick with a point at one end, a transverse edge or blade at
the other, and a handle inserted at the middle; a hammer with a
flattened end for driving wedges and a pointed end for piercing as it
strikes. Shak.

PICKBACK
Pick"back`, adv.

Defn: On the back.

PICKED
Pick"ed, a.

1. Pointed; sharp. "Picked and polished." Chapman.
Let the stake be made picked at the top. Mortimer.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a pike or spine on the back; -- said of certain fishes.

3. Carefully selected; chosen; as, picked men.

4. Fine; spruce; smart; precise; dianty. [Obs.] Shak. Picked dogfish.
(Zoöl.) See under Dogfish.
 -- Picked out, ornamented or relieved with lines, or the like, of a
different, usually a lighter, color; as, a carriage body dark green,
picked out with red.

PICKEDNESS
Pick"ed*ness, n.

1. The state of being sharpened; pointedness.

2. Fineness; spruceness; smartness. [Obs.]
Too much pickedness is not manly. B. Jonson.

PICKEER
Pick*eer", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pickeered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Pickeering.] Etym: [F. picorer to go marauding, orig., to go to steal
cattle, ultimately fr. L. pecus, pecoris, cattle; cf. F. picorée, Sp.
pecorea robbery committed by straggling soldiers.]

Defn: To make a raid for booty; to maraud; also, to skirmish in
advance of an army. See Picaroon. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.

PICKEERER
Pick*eer"er, n.

Defn: One who pickeers. [Obs.]

PICKER
Pick"er, n. Etym: [From Pick.]

1. One who, or that which, picks, in any sense, -- as, one who uses a
pick; one who gathers; a thief; a pick; a pickax; as, a cotton
picker. "Pickers and stealers." Shak.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A machine for picking fibrous materials to pieces so as to
loosen and separate the fiber.

3. (Weaving)

Defn: The piece in a loom which strikes the end of the shuttle, and
impels it through the warp.

4. (Ordnance)

Defn: A priming wire for cleaning the vent.

PICKEREL
Pick"er*el, n. Etym: [Dim. of Pike.] [Written also pickerell.]

1. A young or small pike. [Obs.]
Bet [better] is, quoth he, a pike than a pickerel. Chaucer.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any one of several species of freshwater fishes of the genus
Esox, esp. the smaller species.
(b) The glasseye, or wall-eyed pike. See Wall-eye.

Note: The federation, or chain, pickerel (Esox reticulatus) and the
brook pickerel (E. Americanus) are the most common American species.
They are used for food, and are noted for their voracity. About the
Great Lakes the pike is called pickerel. Pickerel weed (Bot.), a
blue-flowered aquatic plant (Pontederia cordata) having large arrow-
shaped leaves. So called because common in slow-moving waters where
pickerel are often found.

PICKERING
Pick"er*ing, n. Etym: [Probably a corruption of Pickerel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sauger of the St.Lawrence River.

PICKERY
Pick"er*y, n. Etym: [From Pick to steal; or perhaps from Pickeer.]

Defn: Petty theft. [Scot.] Holinshed.

PICKET
Pick"et, n. Etym: [F. piquet, properly dim. of pique spear, pike. See
Pike, and cf. Piquet.]

1. A stake sharpened or pointed, especially one used in fortification
and encampments, to mark bounds and angles; or one used for tethering
horses.

2. A pointed pale, used in marking fences.

3. Etym: [Probably so called from the picketing of the horses.]
(Mil.)

Defn: A detached body of troops serving to guard an army from
surprise, and to oppose reconnoitering parties of the enemy; --
called also outlying picket.

4. By extension, men appointed by a trades union, or other labor
organization, to intercept outsiders, and prevent them from working
for employers with whom the organization is at variance. [Cant]

5. A military punishment, formerly resorted to, in which the offender
was forced to stand with one foot on a pointed stake.

6. A game at cards. See Piquet. Inlying picket (Mil.), a detachment
of troops held in camp or quarters, detailed to march if called upon.
 -- Picket fence, a fence made of pickets. See def. 2, above.
 -- Picket guard (Mil.), a guard of horse and foot, always in
readiness in case of alarm.
 -- Picket line. (Mil.) (a) A position held and guarded by small
bodies of men placed at intervals. (b) A rope to which horses are
secured when groomed.
 -- Picketpin, an iron pin for picketing horses.

PICKET
Pick"et, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Picketed; p. pr. & vb. n. Picketing.]

1. To fortify with pointed stakes.

2. To inclose or fence with pickets or pales.

3. To tether to, or as to, a picket; as, to picket a horse.

4. To guard, as a camp or road, by an outlying picket.

5. To torture by compelling to stand with one foot on a pointed
stake. [Obs.]

PICKETEE
Pick`e*tee", n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Picotee.

PICK-FAULT
Pick"-fault`, n.

Defn: One who seeks out faults.

PICKING
Pick"ing, n.

1. The act of digging or breaking up, as with a pick.

2. The act of choosing, plucking, or gathering.

3. That which is, or may be, picked or gleaned.

4. Pilfering; also, that which is pilfered.

5. pl.

Defn: The pulverized shells of oysters used in making walks. [Eng.]
Simmonds.

6. (Mining)

Defn: Rough sorting of ore.

7. Overburned bricks. Simmonds.

PICKING
Pick"ing, a.

1. Done or made as with a pointed tool; as, a picking sound.

2. Nice; careful. [Obs.]
was too warm on picking work to dwell. Dryden.
Picking peg. (Weaving) See Picker, n., 3.

PICKLE
Pic"kle, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Picle.

PICKLE
Pic"kle, n. Etym: [Cf. D. pekel. Probably a dim. fr. Pick, v. t.,
alluding to the cleaning of the fish.]

1.
(a) A solution of salt and water, in which fish, meat, etc., may be
preserved or corned; brine.
(b) Vinegar, plain or spiced, used for preserving vegetables, fish,
eggs, oysters, etc.

2. Any article of food which has been preserved in brine or in
vinegar.

3. (Founding)

Defn: A bath of dilute sulphuric or nitric acid, etc., to remove
burnt sand, scale rust, etc., from the surface of castings, or other
articles of metal, or to brighten them or improve their color.

4. A troublesome child; as, a little pickle. [Colloq.] To be in a
pickle, to be in disagreeable position; to be in a condition of
embarrassment, difficulty, or disorder. "How cam'st thou in this
pickle" Shak.
 -- To put a rod in pickle, to prepare a particular reproof,
punishment, or penalty for future application.

PICKLE
Pic"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pickled; p. pr. & vb. n. Pickling.]

1. To preserve or season in pickle; to treat with some kind of
pickle; as, to pickle herrings or cucumbers.

2. To give an antique appearance to; -- said of copies or imitations
of paintings by the old masters.

PICKLED
Pic"kled, a.

Defn: Preserved in a pickle.

PICKLE-HERRING
Pic"kle-her"ring, n.

1. A herring preserved in brine; a pickled herring. [Obs.] Shak.

2. A merry-andrew; a buffoon. [Obs.] Addison.

PICKLER
Pic"kler, n.

Defn: One who makes pickles.

PICKLOCK
Pick"lock`, n.

1. An instrument for picking locks. Shak.

2. One who picks locks; a thief. "A picklock of secrets." Jer.
Taylor.

PICK-ME-UP
Pick"-me-up`, n.

Defn: A stimulant, restorative, or tonic; a bracer. [Colloq.]

PICKMIRE
Pick"mire`, n. Etym: [So called from its picking its food from the
mire.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pewit, or black-headed gull. [Prov. Eng.]

PICKNICK
Pick"nick, n.

Defn: See Picnic.

PICKPACK
Pick"pack`, adv.

Defn: Pickaback.

PICKPENNY
Pick"pen`ny, n.; pl. Pickpennies (.

Defn: A miser; also, a sharper. Dr. H. More.

PICKPOCKET
Pick"pock`et, n.

Defn: One who steals purses or other articles from pockets. Bentley.

PICKPURSE
Pick"purse`, n.

Defn: One who steals purses, or money from purses. Latimer. Shak.

PICKSY
Pick"sy, n.

Defn: See Pixy.

PICKTHANK
Pick"thank`, n.

Defn: One who strives to put another under obligation; an officious
person; hence, a flatterer. Used also adjectively.
Smiling pickthanks, and base newsmongers. Shak.

PICKTOOTH
Pick"tooth`, n.

Defn: A toothpick. [Obs.] Swift.

PICK-UP; PICKUP
Pick"-up, or Pick"up`, n. [Colloq., Cant. or Slang]

1. Act of picking up, as, in various games, the fielding or hitting
of a ball just after it strikes the ground.

2.  That which picks up; specif.: (Elec.)

Defn: = Brush b.

3.  One that is picked up, as a meal hastily got up for the occasion,
a chance acquaintance, an informal game, etc.

PICLE; PICKLE
Pi"cle, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. pightel or pingle.]

Defn: A small piece of land inclosed with a hedge; a close. [Obs.]
[Written also pickle.]

PI CLOTH
Pi"ña cloth`.

Defn: A fine material for ladies' shawls, scarfs, handkerchiefs,
etc., made from the fiber of the pineapple leaf, and perhaps from
other fibrous tropical leaves. It is delicate, soft, and transparent,
with a slight tinge of pale yellow.

PI CLOTH
Pi`ña cloth. [See Piña.]

Defn: A fine fabric for scarfs, handkerchiefs, embroidery, etc.,
woven from the fiber obtained from the leaf of the sterile pineapple
plant. It is delicate, soft, and transparent, with a tinge of pale
yellow.

PICNIC
Pic"nic, n. Etym: [Cf. F. piquenique. See Pick, v., and cf.
Knickknack.]

Defn: Formerly, an entertainment at which each person contributed
some dish to a common table; now, an excursion or pleasure party in
which the members partake of a collation or repast (usually in the
open air, and from food carried by themselves).

PICNIC
Pic"nic, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Picnicked; p. pr. & vb. n. Picnicking.]

Defn: To go on a picnic, or pleasure excursion; to eat in public
fashion.

PICNICKER
Pic"nick*er, n.

Defn: One who takes part in a picnic.

PICOID
Pi"coid, a. Etym: [Picus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Pici.

PICOLINE
Pic"o*line, n. Etym: [L. pix, picis, pitch + oleum oil + -ine.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Any one of three isometric bases (C6H7N) related to pyridine,
and obtained from bone oil, acrolein ammonia, and coal-tar naphtha,
as colorless mobile liquids of strong odor; -- called also methyl
pyridine.

PICOT
Pi`cot", n. [F.]

Defn: One of many small loops, as of thread, forming an ornamental
border, as on a ribbon.

PICOTEE; PICOTINE
Pic`o*tee", Pic`o*tine", n. Etym: [F. picoté dotted, picked.] (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of carnation having petals of a light color variously
dotted and spotted at the edges.

PICQUET
Pic"quet, n.

Defn: See Piquet.

PICRA
Pi"cra, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The powder of aloes with canella, formerly officinal, employed
as a cathartic.

PICRATE
Pi"crate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of picric acid.

PICRIC
Pi"cric, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a strong organic acid (called
picric acid), intensely bitter.

Note: Picric acid is obtained by treating phenol with strong nitric
acid, as a brilliant yellow crystalline substance, C6H2(NO2)3.OH. It
is used in dyeing silk and wool, and also in the manufacture of
explosives, as it is very unstable when heated. Called also
trinitrophenol, and formerly carbazotic acid.

PICRITE
Pic"rite, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A dark green igneous rock, consisting largely of chrysolite,
with hornblende, augite, biotite, etc.

PICROLITE
Pic"ro*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.: cf. F. picrolithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A fibrous variety of serpentine.

PICROMEL
Pic"ro*mel, n. Etym: [Gr. picromel.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: A colorless viscous substance having a bitter-sweet taste.

Note: It was formerly supposed to be the essential principle of the
bile, but is now known to be a mixture, principally of salts of
glycocholic and taurocholic acids.

PICROTOXIN
Pic`ro*tox"in, n. Etym: [Gr. toxic + -in.] (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter white crystalline substance found in the cocculus
indicus. It is a peculiar poisonous neurotic and intoxicant, and
consists of a mixture of several neutral substances.

PICRYL
Pi"cryl, n. Etym: [Picric + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The hypothetical radical of picric acid, analogous to phenyl.

PICTISH
Pict"ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Picts; resembling the Picts. "The Pictish
peer." Byron.

PICTOGRAPH
Pic"to*graph, n. Etym: [See Picture, and -graph.]

Defn: A picture or hieroglyph representing and expressing an idea.
 -- Pic`to*graph"ic, a.

PICTORIAL
Pic*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. pictorius, fr. pictor a painter, fr.
pingere to paint. See Paint.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to pictures; illustrated by pictures; forming
pictures; representing with the clearness of a picture; as, a
pictorial dictionary; a pictorial imagination. "Pictorial rhetoric."
Ruskin.
 -- Pic*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

PICTORIC; PICTORICAL
Pic*tor"ic, Pic*tor"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pictorial. [Obs.]

PICTS
Picts, n. pl.; sing. Pict (. Etym: [L. Picti; cf. AS. Peohtas.]
(Ethnol.)

Defn: A race of people of uncertain origin, who inhabited Scotland in
early times.

PICTURA
Pic*tu"ra, n. Etym: [L., a painting.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pattern of coloration.

PICTURABLE
Pic"tur*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being pictured, or represented by a picture.

PICTURAL
Pic"tur*al, a.

Defn: Pictorial. [R.] Sir W. Scott.

PICTURAL
Pic"tur*al, n.

Defn: A picture. [Obs.] Spenser.

PICTURE
Pic"ture, n. Etym: [L. pictura, fr. pingere, pictum, to paint: cf. F.
peinture. See Paint.]

1. The art of painting; representation by painting. [Obs.]
Any well-expressed image . . . either in picture or sculpture. Sir H.
Wotton.

2. A representation of anything (as a person, a landscape, a
building) upon canvas, paper, or other surface, produced by means of
painting, drawing, engraving, photography, etc.; a representation in
colors. By extension, a figure; a model.
Pictures and shapes are but secondary objects. Bacon.
The young king's picture . . . in virgin wax. Howell.

3. An image or resemblance; a representation, either to the eye or to
the mind; that which, by its likeness, brings vividly to mind some
other thing; as, a child is the picture of his father; the man is the
picture of grief.
My eyes make pictures when they are shut. Coleridge.

Note: Picture is often used adjectively, or in forming self-
explaining compounds; as, picture book or picture-book, picture frame
or picture-frame, picture seller or picture-seller, etc. Picture
gallery, a gallery, or large apartment, devoted to the exhibition of
pictures.
 -- Picture red, a rod of metal tube fixed to the walls of a room,
from which pictures are hung.
 -- Picture writing. (a) The art of recording events, or of
expressing messages, by means of pictures representing the actions or
circumstances in question. Tylor. (b) The record or message so
represented; as, the picture writing of the American Indians.

Syn.
 -- Picture, Painting. Every kind of representation by drawing or
painting is a picture, whether made with oil colors, water colors,
pencil, crayons, or India ink; strictly, a painting is a picture made
by means of colored paints, usually applied moist with a brush.

PICTURE
Pic"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pictured; p. pr. & vb. n. Picturing.]

Defn: To draw or paint a resemblance of; to delineate; to represent;
to form or present an ideal likeness of; to bring before the mind. "I
. . . do picture it in my mind." Spenser.
I have not seen him so pictured. Shak.

PICTURED
Pic"tured, a.

Defn: Furnished with pictures; represented by a picture or pictures;
as, a pictured scene.

PICTURER
Pic"tur*er, n.

Defn: One who makes pictures; a painter. [R.] Fuller.

PICTURESQUE
Pic`tur*esque", a. Etym: [It. pittoresco: cf. F. pittoresque. See
Pictorial.]

Defn: Forming, or fitted to form, a good or pleasing picture;
representing with the clearness or ideal beauty appropriate to a
picture; expressing that peculiar kind of beauty which is agreeable
in a picture, natural or artificial; graphic; vivid; as, a
picturesque scene or attitude; picturesque language.
What is picturesque as placed in relation to the beautiful and the
sublime It is . . . the characteristic pushed into a sensible excess.
De Quincey.
 -- Pic`tur*esque"ly, adv.
 -- Pic`tur*esque"ness, n.

PICTURESQUISH
Pic`tur*esqu"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat picturesque. [R.]

PICTURIZE
Pic"tur*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Picturized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Picturizing.] [R.]

1. To picture.

2. To adorn with pictures.

PICUL
Pic"ul, n. Etym: [Jav. & Malay pikul, fr. pikul to carry on the back,
to carry a burden; n., a man's burden.]

Defn: A commercial weight varying in different countries and for
different commodities. In Borneo it is 135tan. [Written also pecul,
and pecal.]

PICULET
Pic"u*let, n. Etym: [Dim. of Picus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of very small woodpeckers of the genus Picumnus and
allied genera. Their tail feathers are not stiff and sharp at the
tips, as in ordinary woodpeckers.

PICUS
Pi"cus, n.; pl. Pici. Etym: [L., a woodpecker.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of woodpeckers, including some of the common American
and European species.

PIDDLE
Pid"dle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Piddled; p. pr. & vb. n. Piddling.]
Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. pittla to keep picking at, Sw. peta to pick.]

1. To deal in trifles; to concern one's self with trivial matters
rather than with those that are important. Ascham.

2. To be squeamishly nice about one's food. Swift.

3. To urinate; -- child's word.

PIDDLER
Pid"dler, n.

Defn: One who piddles.

PIDDLING
Pid"dling, a.

Defn: Trifling; trivial; frivolous; paltry; -- applied to persons and
things.
The ignoble hucksterage of piddling tithes. Milton.

PIDDOCK
Pid"dock, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Pholas; a pholad. See Pholas.

PIE
Pie, n. Etym: [OE. pie, pye; cf. Ir. & Gael. pighe pie, also Gael.
pige an earthen jar or pot. Cf. Piggin.]

1. An article of food consisting of paste baked with something in it
or under it; as, chicken pie; venison pie; mince pie; apple pie;
pumpkin pie.

2. See Camp, n., 5. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Pie crust, the paste of a
pie.

PIE
Pie, n. Etym: [F. pie, L. pica; cf. picus woodpecker, pingere to
paint; the bird being perhaps named from its colors. Cf. Pi, Paint,
Speight.]

1. (Zoöl.)
(a) A magpie.
(b) Any other species of the genus Pica, and of several allied
genera. [Written also pye.]

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The service book.

3. (Pritn.)

Defn: Type confusedly mixed. See Pi. By cock and pie, an adjuration
equivalent to "by God and the service book." Shak.
 -- Tree pie (Zoöl.), any Asiatic bird of the genus Dendrocitta,
allied to the magpie.
 -- Wood pie. (Zoöl.) See French pie, under French.

PIE
Pie, v. t.

Defn: See Pi.

PIEBALD
Pie"bald`, a. Etym: [Pie the party-colored bird + bald.]

1. Having spots and patches of black and white, or other colors;
mottled; pied. "A piebald steed of Thracian strain." Dryden.

2. Fig.: Mixed. "Piebald languages." Hudibras.

PIECE
Piece, n. Etym: [OE. pece, F. pièce, LL. pecia, petia, petium,
probably of Celtic origin; cf. W. peth a thing, a part, portion, a
little, Armor. pez, Gael. & Ir. cuid part, share. Cf. Petty.]

1. A fragment or part of anything separated from the whole, in any
manner, as by cutting, splitting, breaking, or tearing; a part; a
portion; as, a piece of sugar; to break in pieces.
Bring it out piece by piece. Ezek. xxiv. 6.

2. A definite portion or quantity, as of goods or work; as, a piece
of broadcloth; a piece of wall paper.

3. Any one thing conceived of as apart from other things of the same
kind; an individual article; a distinct single effort of a series; a
definite performance; especially:
(a) A literary or artistic composition; as, a piece of poetry, music,
or statuary.
(b) A musket, gun, or cannon; as, a battery of six pieces; a
following piece.
(c) A coin; as, a sixpenny piece; -- formerly applied specifically to
an English gold coin worth 22 shillings.
(d) A fact; an item; as, a piece of news; a piece of knowledge.

4. An individual; -- applied to a person as being of a certain nature
or quality; often, but not always, used slightingly or in contempt.
"If I had not been a piece of a logician before I came to him." Sir
P. Sidney.
Thy mother was a piece of virtue. Shak.
His own spirit is as unsettled a piece as there is in all the world.
Coleridge.
a piece of cake, a task easily accomplished. a piece of work, a
disparaging term for a person considered to have an excess of some
undesirable quality; esp. difficult or eccentric person. Piece of ass
vulgar term for a woman, considered as a partner in sexual
intercourse

5. (Chess)

Defn: One of the superior men, distinguished from a pawn.

6. A castle; a fortified building. [Obs.] Spenser. Of a piece, of the
same sort, as if taken from the same whole; like; -- sometimes
followed by with. Dryden.
 -- Piece of eight, the Spanish piaster, formerly divided into eight
reals.
 -- To give a piece of one's mind to, to speak plainly, bluntly, or
severely to (another). Tackeray.
 -- Piece broker, one who buys shreds and remnants of cloth to sell
again.
 -- Piece goods, goods usually sold by pieces or fixed portions, as
shirtings, calicoes, sheetings, and the like.

PIECE
Piece, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pieced; p. pr. & vb. n. Piecing.]

1. To make, enlarge, or repair, by the addition of a piece or pieces;
to patch; as, to piece a garment; -- often with out. Shak.

2. To unite; to join; to combine. Fuller.
His adversaries . . . pieced themselves together in a joint
opposition against him. Fuller.

PIECE
Piece, v. i.

Defn: To unite by a coalescence of parts; to fit together; to join.
"It pieced better." Bacon.

PIECELESS
Piece"less, a.

Defn: Not made of pieces; whole; entire.

PIECELY
Piece"ly, adv.

Defn: In pieces; piecemeal. [Obs.]

PIECEMEAL
Piece"meal`, adv. Etym: [OE. pecemele; pece a piece + AS. m, dat. pl.
of m part. See Meal a portion.]

1. In pieces; in parts or fragments. "On which it piecemeal brake."
Chapman.
The beasts will tear thee piecemeal. Tennyson.

2. Piece by piece; by little and little in succession.
Piecemeal they win, this acre first, than that. Pope.

PIECEMEAL
Piece"meal`, a.

Defn: Made up of parts or pieces; single; separate. "These piecemeal
guilts." Gov. of Tongue.

PIECEMEAL
Piece"meal`, n.

Defn: A fragment; a scrap. R. Vaughan.

PIECEMEALED
Piece"mealed`, a.

Defn: Divided into pieces.

PIECENER
Piece"ner, n.

1. One who supplies rolls of wool to the slubbing machine in woolen
mills.

2. Same as Piecer, 2.

PIECER
Pie"cer, n.

1. One who pieces; a patcher.

2. A child employed in spinning mill to tie together broken threads.

PIECEWORK
Piece"work`, n.

Defn: Work done by the piece or job; work paid for at a rate based on
the amount of work done, rather than on the time employed.
The reaping was piecework, at so much per acre. R. Jefferies.

PIED
Pied,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Pi, or Pie, v.

PIED
Pied, a. Etym: [From Pie the party-colored bird.]

Defn: Variegated with spots of different colors; party-colored;
spotted; piebald. "Pied coats." Burton. "Meadows trim with daisies
pied." Milton. Pied antelope (Zoöl.), the bontebok.
 -- Pied-billed grebe (Zoöl.), the dabchick.
 -- Pied blackbird (Zoöl.), any Asiatic thrush of the genus Turdulus.
 -- Pied finch (Zoöl.) (a) The chaffinch. (b) The snow bunting.
[Prov. Eng.] -- Pied flycatcher (Zoöl.), a common European flycatcher
(Ficedula atricapilla). The male is black and white.

PIEDMONT
Pied"mont, a. Etym: [F. pied foot + mont mountain.] (Geol.)

Defn: Noting the region of foothills near the base of a mountain
chain.

PIEDMONTITE
Pied"mont*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A manganesian kind of epidote, from Piedmont. See Epidote.

PIEDNESS
Pied"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being pied. Shak.

PIEDOUCHE
Pié`douche", n. Etym: [F., fr. It. peduccio console, corbel.]

Defn: A pedestal of small size, used to support small objects, as
busts, vases, and the like.

PIEDSTALL
Pied"stall, n.

Defn: See Pedestal. [Obs.]

PIEMAN
Pie"man, n.; pl. Piemen (.

Defn: A man who makes or sells pies.

PIEND
Piend, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. pind a peg.]

Defn: See Peen.

PIENO
Pi*e"no, a. Etym: [It., fr. L. plenus full.] (Mus.)

Defn: Full; having all the instruments.

PIEPLANT
Pie"plant`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Rheum Rhaponticum) the leafstalks of which are acid,
and are used in making pies; the garden rhubarb.

PIEPOUDRE; PIEPOWDER
Pie"pou`dre, Pie"pow`der, n. Etym: [Lit., dustyfoot, i.e., dusty-
footed dealers, fr. F. pied foot + poudreux dusty.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: An ancient court of record in England, formerly incident to
every fair and market, of which the steward of him who owned or had
the toll was the judge. Blackstone.

PIER
Pier, n. Etym: [OE. pere, OF. piere a stone, F. pierre, fr. L. petra,
Gr. Petrify.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) Any detached mass of masonry, whether insulated or supporting one
side of an arch or lintel, as of a bridge; the piece of wall between
two openings.
(b) Any additional or auxiliary mass of masonry used to stiffen a
wall. See Buttress.

2. A projecting wharf or landing place. Abutment pier, the pier of a
bridge next the shore; a pier which by its strength and stability
resists the thrust of an arch.
 -- Pier glass, a mirror, of high and narrow shape, to be put up
between windows.
 -- Pier table, a table made to stand between windows.

PIERAGE
Pier"age, n.

Defn: Same as Wharfage. Smart.

PIERCE
Pierce, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pierced; p. pr. & vb. n. Piercing.] Etym:
[OE. percen, F. percer, OF. percier, perchier, parchier; perh. fr.
(assumed) LL. pertusiare for pertusare, fr. L. pertundere, pertusum,
to beat, push, bore through; per through + tundere to beat: cf. OF.
pertuisier to pierce, F. pertuis a hole. Cf. Contuse, Parch,
Pertuse.]

1. To thrust into, penetrate, or transfix, with a pointed instrument.
"I pierce . . . her tender side." Dryden.

2. To penetrate; to enter; to force a way into or through; to pass
into or through; as, to pierce the enemy's line; a shot pierced the
ship.

3. Fig.: To penetrate; to affect deeply; as, to pierce a mystery.
"Pierced with grief." Pope.
Can no prayers pierce thee Shak.

PIERCE
Pierce, v. i.

Defn: To enter; to penetrate; to make a way into or through
something, as a pointed instrument does; -- used literally and
figuratively.
And pierced to the skin, but bit no more. Spenser.
She would not pierce further into his meaning. Sir P. Sidney.

PIERCEABLE
Pierce"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be pierced.

PIERCED
Pierced, a.

Defn: Penetrated; entered; perforated.

PIERCEL
Pier"cel, n. Etym: [Cf. F. perce.]

Defn: A kind of gimlet for making vents in casks; -- called also
piercer.

PIERCER
Pier"cer, n.

1. One who, or that which, pierces or perforates; specifically:
(a) An instrument used in forming eyelets; a stiletto.
(b) A piercel.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) The ovipositor, or sting, of an insect.
(b) An insect provided with an ovipositor.

PIERCING
Pier"cing, a.

Defn: Forcibly entering, or adapted to enter, at or by a point;
perforating; penetrating; keen; -- used also figuratively; as, a
piercing instrument, or thrust. "Piercing eloquence." Shak.
 -- Pier"cing*ly, adv.
 -- Pier"cing*ness, n.

PIERIAN
Pi*e"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Pierius, from Mount Pierus, in Thessaly,
sacred to the Muses.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Pierides or Muses.
Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring. Pope.

PIERID
Pi"er*id, n. Etym: [See Peirides.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any butterfly of the genus Pieris and related genera. See
Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage.

PIERIDES
Pi*er"i*des, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Pierian.] (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Muses.

PIERRE-PERDU
Pierre`-per`du", n. [F. pierre perdue lost stone.]

Defn: Blocks of stone or concrete heaped loosely in the water to make
a foundation (as for a sea wall), a mole, etc.

PIET
Pi"et, n. Etym: [Dim. of Pie a magpie: cf. F. piette a smew.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The dipper, or watter ouzel. [Scot.]
(b) The magpie. [Prov.Eng.] Jay piet (Zoöl.), the European jay.
[Prov.Eng.] -- Sea piet (Zoöl.), the oyster catcher. [Prov.Eng.]

PIETA
Pi*e*tà", n. Etym: [It.] (Fine Arts)

Defn: A representation of the dead Christ, attended by the Virgin
Mary or by holy women and angels. Mollett.

PIETISM
Pi"e*tism, n. Etym: [Cf. G. pietismus, F. piétisme.]

1. The principle or practice of the Pietists.

2. Strict devotion; also, affectation of devotion.
The Schöne Seele, that ideal of gentle pietism, in "Wilhelm Meister."
W. Pater.

PIETIST
Pi"e*tist, n. Etym: [Cf. G. pietist, F. piétiste. See Piety.] (Eccl.
Hist.)

Defn: One of a class of religious reformers in Germany in the 17th
century who sought to revive declining piety in the Protestant
churches; -- often applied as a term of reproach to those who make a
display of religious feeling. Also used adjectively.

PIETISTIC; PIETISTICAL
Pi`e*tis"tic, Pi`e*tis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Pietists; hence, in contempt,
affectedly or demonstratively religious. Addison.

PIETRA DURA
Pi*e"tra du"ra. Etym: [It., hard stone.] (Fine Arts)

Defn: Hard and fine stones in general, such as are used for inlay and
the like, as distinguished from the softer stones used in building;
thus, a Florentine mosaic is a familiar instance of work in pietra
dura, though the ground may be soft marble.

PIETY
Pi"e*ty, n. Etym: [F. piété; cf. It. pietà; both fr. L. pietas piety,
fr. pius pious. See Pious, and cf. Pity.]

1. Veneration or reverence of the Supreme Being, and love of his
character; loving obedience to the will of God, and earnest devotion
to his service.
Piety is the only proper and adequate relief of decaying man.
Rambler.

2. Duty; dutifulness; filial reverence and devotion; affectionate
reverence and service shown toward parents, relatives, benefactors,
country, etc.
Conferred upon me for the piety Which to my country I was judged to
have shown. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Religion; sanctity; devotion; godliness; holiness. See Religion.

PIEWIPE
Pie"wipe`, n. Etym: [So called from its note.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lapwing, or pewit. [Prov. Eng.]

PIEZOMETER
Pi`e*zom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. piézomètre.]

1. (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the compressibility of liquids.

2. (Physics)

Defn: A gauge connected with a water main to show the pressure at
that point.

PIFFERO; PIFFARA
Pif"fe*ro, Pif"fa*ra, n. Etym: [It. piffero.] (Mus.)

Defn: A fife; also, a rude kind of oboe or a bagpipe with an inflated
skin for reservoir.

PIFFLE
Pif"fle, v. i.  [imp. & p. p. Piffled; p. pr. & vb. n. Piffling.]

Defn: To be sequeamish or delicate; hence, to act or talk triflingly
or ineffectively; to twaddle; piddle. [Dial. or Slang]

PIFFLE
Pif"fle, n.

Defn: Act of piffling; trifling talk or action; piddling; twaddle.
[Dial. or Slang] "Futile piffle." Kipling.

PIG
Pig, n.

Defn: A piggin. [Written also pigg.]

PIG
Pig, n. Etym: [Cf. D. big, bigge, LG. bigge, also Dan. pige girl, Sw.
piga, Icel. pika.]

1. The young of swine, male or female; also, any swine; a hog. "Two
pigges in a poke." Chaucer.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any wild species of the genus Sus and related genera.

3. Etym: [Cf. Sow a channel for melted iron.]

Defn: An oblong mass of cast iron, lead, or other metal. See Mine
pig, under Mine.

4. One who is hoggish; a greedy person. [Low] Masked pig. (Zoöl.) See
under Masked.
 -- Pig bed (Founding), the bed of sand in which the iron from a
smelting furnace is cast into pigs.
 -- Pig iron, cast iron in pigs, or oblong blocks or bars, as it
comes from the smelting furnace. See Pig, 4.
 -- Pig yoke (Naut.), a nickname for a quadrant or sextant.
 -- A pig in a poke (that is, bag), a blind bargain; something bought
or bargained for, without the quality or the value being known.
[Colloq.]

PIG
Pig, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Pigged; p. pr. & vb. n. Pigging.]

1. To bring forth (pigs); to bring forth in the manner of pigs; to
farrow.

2. To huddle or lie together like pigs, in one bed.

PIGEON
Pi"geon, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. pipio a young pipping or chirping bird,
fr. pipire to peep, chirp. Cf. Peep to chirp.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the order Columbæ, of which numerous species occur
in nearly all parts of the world.

Note: The common domestic pigeon, or dove, was derived from the Old
World rock pigeon (Columba livia). It has given rise to numerous very
remarkable varieties, such as the carrier, fantail, nun, pouter,
tumbler, etc. The common wild pigeons of the Eastern United States
are the passenger pigeon, and the Carolina dove. See under Passenger,
and Dove. See, also, Fruit pigeon, Ground pigeon, Queen pigeon, Stock
pigeon, under Fruit, Ground, etc.

2. An unsuspected victim of sharpers; a gull. [Slang] Blue pigeon
(Zoöl.), an Australian passerine bird (Graucalus melanops); -- called
also black-faced crow.
 -- Green pigeon (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of Old World
pigeons belonging to the family Treronidæ.
 -- Imperial pigeon (Zoöl.), any one of the large Asiatic fruit
pigeons of the genus Carpophada.
 -- Pigeon berry (Bot.), the purplish black fruit of the pokeweed;
also, the plant itself. See Pokeweed.
 -- Pigeon English Etym: [perhaps a corruption of business English],
an extraordinary and grotesque dialect, employed in the commercial
cities of China, as the medium of communication between foreign
merchants and the Chinese. Its base is English, with a mixture of
Portuguese and Hindoostanee. Johnson's Cyc.
 -- Pigeon grass (Bot.), a kind of foxtail grass (Setaria glauca), of
some value as fodder. The seeds are eagerly eaten by pigeons and
other birds.
 -- Pigeon hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A small American falcon (Falco
columbarius). The adult male is dark slate-blue above, streaked with
black on the back; beneath, whitish or buff, streaked with brown. The
tail is banded. (b) The American sharp-shinned hawk (Accipiter velox,
or fuscus).
 -- Pigeon hole. (a) A hole for pigeons to enter a pigeon house. (b)
See Pigeonhole. (c) pl. An old English game, in which balls were
rolled through little arches. Halliwell.
 -- Pigeon house, a dovecote.
 -- Pigeon pea (Bot.), the seed of Cajanus Indicus; a kind of pulse
used for food in the East and West Indies; also, the plant itself.
 -- Pigeon plum (Bot.), the edible drupes of two West African species
of Chrysobalanus (C. ellipticus and C. luteus).
 -- Pigeon tremex. (Zoöl.) See under Tremex.
 -- Pigeon wood (Bot.), a name in the West Indies for the wood of
several very different kinds of trees, species of Dipholis,
Diospyros, and Coccoloba.
 -- Pigeon woodpecker (Zoöl.), the flicker.
 -- Prairie pigeon. (Zoöl.) (a) The upland plover. (b) The golden
plover. [Local, U.S.]

PIGEON
Pi"geon, v. t.

Defn: To pluck; to fleece; to swindle by tricks in gambling. [Slang]
Smart.
He's pigeoned and undone. Observer.

PIGEON-BREASTED
Pi"geon-breast`ed, a.

Defn: Having a breast like a pigeon, -- the sternum being so
prominent as to constitute a deformity; chicken-breasted.

PIGEONFOOT
Pi"geon*foot`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The dove's-foot geranium (Geranium molle).

PIGEON-HEARTED
Pi"geon-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Timid; easily frightened; chicken-hearted. Beau. & Fl.

PIGEONHOLE
Pi"geon*hole`, n.

Defn: A small compartment in a desk or case for the keeping of
letters, documents, etc.; -- so called from the resemblance of a row
of them to the compartments in a dovecote. Burke.

PIGEONHOLE
Pi"geon*hole`, v. t.

Defn: To place in the pigeonhole of a case or cabinet; hence, to put
away; to lay aside indefinitely; as, to pigeonhole a letter or a
report.

PIGEON-LIVERED
Pi"geon-liv`ered, a.

Defn: Pigeon-hearted.

PIGEONRY
Pi"geon*ry, n.

Defn: A place for pigeons; a dovecote.

PIGEONTOED
Pi"geon*toed`, a.

Defn: Having the toes turned in.

PIGEONWING
Pi"geon*wing`, n.

1. A wing of a pigeon, or a wing like it.

2.  An old mode of dressing men's side hair in a form likened to a
pigeon's wings; also, a wig similarly shaped.

3.  (Dancing) A fancy step executed by jumping and striking the legs
together; as, to cut a pigeonwing.

4.  A certain fancy figure in skating.

5.  (Tempering) A color, brown shaded with purple, coming between
dark brown and light blue in the table of colors in drawing the
temper of hardened steel.

PIG-EYED
Pig"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having small, deep-set eyes.

PIGFISH
Pig"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any one of several species of salt-water grunts; -- called also
hogfish.
(b) A sculpin. The name is also applied locally to several other
fishes.

PIGFOOT
Pig"foot`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine fish (Scorpæna porcus), native of Europe. It is
reddish brown, mottled with dark brown and black.

PIGG
Pigg, n.

Defn: A piggin. See 1st Pig. Sir W. Scott.

PIGGERY
Pig"ger*y, n.; pl. Piggeries (.

Defn: A place where swine are kept.

PIGGIN
Pig"gin, n. Etym: [Scot.; cf. Gael. pigean, dim. of pigeadh, pige, an
earthen jar, pitcher, or pot, Ir. pigin, pighead, W. piccyn.]

Defn: A small wooden pail or tub with an upright stave for a handle,
-- often used as a dipper.

PIGGISH
Pig"gish, a.

Defn: Relating to, or like, a pig; greedy.

PIG-HEADED
Pig"-head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a head like a pig; hence, figuratively: stupidity
obstinate; perverse; stubborn. B. Jonson.
 -- Pig"-head`ed*ness, n.

PIGHT
Pight, imp. & p. p. of Pitch, to throw; -- used also adjectively.

Defn: Pitched; fixed; determined. [Obs.]
[His horse] pight him on the pommel of his head. Chaucer.
I found him pight to do it. Shak.

PIGHTEL
Pigh"tel, n. Etym: [Cf. Pight, Picle.]

Defn: A small inclosure. [Written also pightle.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

PIG-JAWED
Pig"-jawed`, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the upper jaw projecting beyond the lower, with the
upper incisors in advance of the lower; -- said of dogs.

PIGMEAN
Pig*me"an, a.

Defn: See Pygmean.

PIGMENT
Pig"ment, n. Etym: [L. pigmentum, fr. the root of pingere to paint:
cf. F. pigment. See Paint, and cf. Pimento, Orpiment.]

1. Any material from which a dye, a paint, or the like, may be
prepared; particularly, the refined and purified coloring matter
ready for mixing with an appropriate vehicle.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Any one of the colored substances found in animal and vegetable
tissues and fluids, as bilirubin, urobilin, chlorophyll, etc.

3. Wine flavored with species and honey. Sir W. Scott. Pigment cell
(Physiol.), a small cell containing coloring matter, as the pigmented
epithelial cells of the choroid and iris, or the pigmented connective
tissue cells in the skin of fishes, reptiles, etc.

PIGMENTAL; PIGMENTARY
Pig*men"tal, Pig"men*ta*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to pigments; furnished with pigments.
Dunglison. Pigmentary degeneration (Med.), a morbid condition in
which an undue amount of pigment is deposited in the tissues.

PIGMENTATION
Pig`men*ta"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: A deposition, esp. an excessive deposition, of coloring matter;
as, pigmentation of the liver.

PIGMENTED
Pig"ment*ed, a.

Defn: Colored; specifically (Biol.), filled or imbued with pigment;
as, pigmented epithelial cells; pigmented granules.

PIGMENTOUS
Pig*men"tous, a.

Defn: Pigmental.

PIGMY
Pig"my, n.

Defn: See Pygmy. Pigmy falcon. (Zoöl.) Same as Falconet, 2 (a).

PIGNERATE
Pig"ner*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. pigneratus, p.p. of pignerate to
pledge.]

1. To pledge or pawn. [Obs.]

2. to receive in pawn, as a pawnbroker does. [Obs.]

PIGNORATION
Pig`no*ra"tion, n. Etym: [LL. pignoratio, L. pigneratio, fr.
pignerate to pledge, fr. pignus, gen. -ous and -eris, a pledge, a
pawn: cf. F. pignoration.]

1. The act of pledging or pawning.

2. (Civil Law)

Defn: The taking of cattle doing damage, by way of pledge, till
satisfaction is made. Burrill.

PIGNORATIVE
Pig"no*ra*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. pignoratif.]

Defn: Pledging, pawning. [R.]

PIGNUS
Pig"nus, n.; pl. Pignora. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Law)

Defn: A pledge or pawn.

PIGNUT
Pig"nut, n. (Bot.)
(a) See Groundnut (d).
(b) The bitter-flavored nut of a species of hickory (Carya glabra, or
porcina); also, the tree itself.

PIGPEN
Pig"pen`, n.

Defn: A pen, or sty, for pigs.

PIGSKIN
Pig"skin`, n.

Defn: The skin of a pig, -- used chiefly for making saddles; hence, a
colloquial or slang term for a saddle.

PIGSNEY
Pigs"ney, n. Etym: [Perh. a dim. of Dan. pige a girl, or Sw. piga; or
from E. pig's eye.]

Defn: A word of endearment for a girl or woman. [Obs.] [Written also
pigsnie, pigsny, etc.] Chaucer.

PIG-STICKING
Pig"-stick`ing, n.

Defn: Boar hunting; -- so called by Anglo-Indians. [Colloq.]
Tackeray.

PIGSTY
Pig"sty`, n.; pl. Pigsties (.

Defn: A pigpen.

PIGTAIL
Pig"tail`, n.

1. The tail of a pig.

2. (Hair Dressing)

Defn: A cue, or queue. J. & H. Smith.

3. A kind of twisted chewing tobacco.
The tobacco he usually cheweth, called pigtail. Swift.

PIGTAILED
Pig"tailed`, a.

Defn: Having a tail like a pig's; as, the pigtailed baboon.

PIGWEED
Pig"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name of several annual weeds. See Goosefoot, and Lamb's-
quarters.

PIGWIDGEON
Pig"wid`geon, n. Etym: [Written also pigwidgin and pigwiggen.]

Defn: A cant word for anything petty or small. It is used by Drayton
as the name of a fairy.

PIKA
Pi"ka, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of rodents of the genus Lagomys,
resembling small tailless rabbits. They inhabit the high mountains of
Asia and America. Called also calling hare, and crying hare. See
Chief hare.

PIKE
Pike, n. Etym: [F. pique; perhaps of Celtic origin; cf. W. pig a
prick, a point, beak, Arm. pik pick. But cf. also L. picus woodpecker
(see Pie magpie), and E. spike. Cf. Pick, n. & v., Peak, Pique.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A foot soldier's weapon, consisting of a long wooden shaft or
staff, with a pointed steel head. It is now superseded by the
bayonet.

2. A pointed head or spike; esp., one in the center of a shield or
target. Beau. & Fl.

3. A hayfork. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Tusser.

4. A pick. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. Raymond.

5. A pointed or peaked hill. [R.]

6. A large haycock. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

7. A turnpike; a toll bar. Dickens.

8. (Zoöl.) sing. & pl.

Defn: A large fresh-water fish (Esox lucius), found in Europe and
America, highly valued as a food fish; -- called also pickerel, gedd,
luce, and jack.

Note: Blue pike, grass pike, green pike, wall-eyed pike, and yellow
pike, are names, not of true pike, but of the wall-eye. See Wall-eye.
Gar pike. See under Gar.
 -- Pike perch (Zoöl.), any fresh-water fish of the genus
Stizostedion (formerly Lucioperca). See Wall-eye, and Sauger.
 -- Pike pole, a long pole with a pike in one end, used in directing
floating logs.
 -- Pike whale (Zoöl.), a finback whale of the North Atlantic
(Balænoptera rostrata), having an elongated snout; -- called also
piked whale.
 -- Sand pike (Zoöl.), the lizard fish.
 -- Sea pike (Zoöl.), the garfish (a).

PIKED
Piked, a.

Defn: Furnished with a pike; ending in a point; peaked; pointed.
"With their piked targets bearing them down." Milton.

PIKE-DEVANT
Pike`-de*vant", n. Etym: [Pike point (fr. F. pique) + F. devant
before.]

Defn: A pointed beard. [Obs.]

PIKELET; PIKELIN
Pike"let, Pike"lin, n.

Defn: A light, thin cake or muffin. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

PIKEMAN
Pike"man, n.; pl. Pikeman (.

1. A soldier armed with a pike. Knolles.

2. A miner who works with a pick. Beaconsfield.

3. A keeper of a turnpike gate. T. Hughes.

PIKESTAFF
Pike"staff`, n.

1. The staff, or shaft, of a pike.

2. A staff with a spike in the lower end, to guard against slipping.
Sir W. Scott.

PIKETAIL
Pike"tail`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Pintail, 1.

PIKROLITE
Pik"ro*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Picrolite.

PILAGE
Pi"lage, n.

Defn: See Pelage.

PILASTER
Pi*las"ter, n. Etym: [F. pilastre, It. pilastro, LL. pilastrum, fr.
L. pila a pillar. See Pillar.] (Arch.)

Defn: An upright architectural member right-angled in plan,
constructionally a pier (See Pier, 1 (b)), but architecturally
corresponding to a column, having capital, shaft, and base to agree
with those of the columns of the same order. In most cases the
projection from the wall is one third of its width, or less.

PILASTERED
Pi*las"tered, a.

Defn: Furnished with pilasters.

PILAU
Pi*lau", n.

Defn: See Pillau.

PILCH
Pilch, n. Etym: [AS. pylce, pylece, LL. pellicia. See Pelisse, and
Pelt skin.]

Defn: A gown or case of skin, or one trimmed or lined with fur.
[Obs.]

PILCHARD
Pil"chard, n. Etym: [Cf. It. pilseir, W. pilcod minnows.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European food fish (Clupea pilchardus) resembling the
herring, but thicker and rounder. It is sometimes taken in great
numbers on the coast of England.
Fools are as like husbands as pilchards are to herrings. Shak.

PILCHER
Pilch"er, n. Etym: [From Pilch.]

Defn: A scabbard, as of a sword. [Obs.] Shak.

PILCHER
Pilch"er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pilchard.

PILCROW
Pil"crow, n. Etym: [A corruption of Paragraph.] (Print.)

Defn: a paragraph mark, . [Obs.] Tusser.

PILE
Pile, n. Etym: [L. pilus hair. Cf. Peruke.]

1. A hair; hence, the fiber of wool, cotton, and the like; also, the
nap when thick or heavy, as of carpeting and velvet.
Velvet soft, or plush with shaggy pile. Cowper.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A covering of hair or fur.

PILE
Pile, n. Etym: [L. pilum javelin. See Pile a stake.]

Defn: The head of an arrow or spear. [Obs.] Chapman.

PILE
Pile, n. Etym: [AS. pil arrow, stake, L. pilum javelin; but cf. also
L. pila pillar.]

1. A large stake, or piece of timber, pointed and driven into the
earth, as at the bottom of a river, or in a harbor where the ground
is soft, for the support of a building, a pier, or other
superstructure, or to form a cofferdam, etc.

Note: Tubular iron piles are now much used.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. pile.] (Her.)

Defn: One of the ordinaries or subordinaries having the form of a
wedge, usually placed palewise, with the broadest end uppermost. Pile
bridge, a bridge of which the roadway is supported on piles.
 -- Pile cap, a beam resting upon and connecting the heads of piles.
 -- Pile driver, or Pile engine, an apparatus for driving down piles,
consisting usually of a high frame, with suitable appliances for
raising to a height (by animal or steam power, the explosion of
gunpowder, etc.) a heavy mass of iron, which falls upon the pile.
 -- Pile dwelling. See Lake dwelling, under Lake.
 -- Pile plank (Hydraul. Eng.), a thick plank used as a pile in sheet
piling. See Sheet piling, under Piling.
 -- Pneumatic pile. See under Pneumatic.
 -- Screw pile, one with a screw at the lower end, and sunk by
rotation aided by pressure.

PILE
Pile, v. t.

Defn: To drive piles into; to fill with piles; to strengthen with
piles. To sheet-pile, to make sheet piling in or around. See Sheet
piling, under 2nd Piling.

PILE
Pile, n. Etym: [F. pile, L. pila a pillar, a pier or mole of stone.
Cf. Pillar.]

1. A mass of things heaped together; a heap; as, a pile of stones; a
pile of wood.

2. A mass formed in layers; as, a pile of shot.

3. A funeral pile; a pyre. Dryden.

4. A large building, or mass of buildings.
The pile o'erlooked the town and drew the fight. Dryden.

5. (Iron Manuf.)

Defn: Same as Fagot, n., 2.

6. (Elec.)

Defn: A vertical series of alternate disks of two dissimilar metals,
as copper and zinc, laid up with disks of cloth or paper moistened
with acid water between them, for producing a current of electricity;
-- commonly called Volta's pile, voltaic pile, or galvanic pile.

Note: The term is sometimes applied to other forms of apparatus
designed to produce a current of electricity, or as synonymous with
battery; as, for instance, to an apparatus for generating a current
of electricity by the action of heat, usually called a thermopile.

7. Etym: [F. pile pile, an engraved die, L. pila a pillar.]

Defn: The reverse of a coin. See Reverse. Cross and pile. See under
Cross.
 -- Dry pile. See under Dry.

PILE
Pile, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Piled; p. pr. & vb. n. Piling.]

1. To lay or throw into a pile or heap; to heap up; to collect into a
mass; to accumulate; to amass; -- often with up; as, to pile up wood.
"Hills piled on hills." Dryden. "Life piled on life." Tennyson.
The labor of an age in piled stones. Milton.

2. To cover with heaps; or in great abundance; to fill or overfill;
to load. To pile arms or muskets (Mil.), to place three guns together
so that they may stand upright, supporting each other; to stack arms.

PILEATE; PILEATED
Pi"le*ate, Pi"le*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. pileatus, fr. pileus a felt cap
or hat.]

1. Having the form of a cap for the head.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a crest covering the pileus, or whole top of the head.
Pileated woodpecker (Zoöl.), a large American woodpecker (Ceophloeus
pileatus). It is black, with a bright red pointed crest. Called also
logcock, and woodcock.

PILED
Piled, a. Etym: [From 2d Pile.]

Defn: Having a pile or point; pointed. [Obs.] "Magus threw a spear
well piled." Chapman.

PILED
Piled, a. Etym: [From 1d Pile.]

Defn: Having a pile or nap. "Three-piled velvet." L. Barry (1611).

PILED
Piled, a. Etym: [From 6d Pile.] (Iron Manuf.)

Defn: Formed from a pile or fagot; as, piled iron.

PILEIFORM
Pi*le"i*form, a. Etym: [Pileus + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a pileus or cap; pileate.

PILEMENT
Pile"ment, n. Etym: [From Pile to lay into a heap.]

Defn: An accumulation; a heap. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

PILENTUM
Pi*len"tum, n.; pl. Pilenta. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An easy chariot or carriage, used by Roman ladies, and in which
the vessels, etc., for sacred rites were carried.

PILEORHIZA
Pi`le*o*rhi"za, n.; pl. Pilorhizæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A cap of cells which covers the growing extremity of a root; a
rootcap.

PILEOUS
Pi"le*ous, a. Etym: [See Pilous.]

Defn: Consisting of, or covered with, hair; hairy; pilose.

PILER
Pil"er, n.

Defn: One who places things in a pile.

PILES
Piles, n. pl. Etym: [L. pila a ball. Cf. Pill a medicine.] (Med.)

Defn: The small, troublesome tumors or swellings about the anus and
lower part of the rectum which are technically called hemorrhoids.
See Hemorrhoids.

Note: [The singular pile is sometimes used.] Blind piles, hemorrhoids
which do not bleed.

PILEUS
Pi"le*us, n.; pl. Pilei. Etym: [L., a felt cap.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A kind of skull cap of felt.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The expanded upper portion of many of the fungi. See Mushroom.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The top of the head of a bird, from the bill to the nape.

PILEWORM
Pile"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The teredo.

PILE-WORN
Pile"-worn`, a.

Defn: Having the pile worn off; threadbare.

PILEWORT
Pile"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Ranunculus Ficaria of Linnæus) whose tuberous roots
have been used in poultices as a specific for the piles. Forsyth.

PILFER
Pil"fer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pilfered; p. pr. & vb. n. Pilfering.]
Etym: [OF. pelfrer. See Pelf.]

Defn: To steal in small quantities, or articles of small value; to
practice petty theft.

PILFER
Pil"fer, v. t.

Defn: To take by petty theft; to filch; to steal little by little.
And not a year but pilfers as he goes Some youthful grace that age
would gladly keep. Cowper.

PILFERER
Pil"fer*er, n.

Defn: One who pilfers; a petty thief.

PILFERING
Pil"fer*ing, a.

Defn: Thieving in a small way. Shak.
 -- n.

Defn: Petty theft.
 -- Pil"fer*ing*ly, adv.

PILFERY
Pil"fer*y, n.

Defn: Petty theft. [R.] Sir T. North.

PILGARLIC
Pil*gar"lic, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: One who has lost his hair by disease; a sneaking fellow, or one
who is hardly used.

PILGRIM
Pil"grim, n. Etym: [OE. pilgrim, pelgrim, pilegrim, pelegrim; cf. D.
pelgrim, OHG. piligrim, G. pilger, F. pèlerin, It. pellegrino; all
fr. L. peregrinus a foreigner, fr. pereger abroad; per through + ager
land, field. See Per-, and Acre, and cf. Pelerine, Peregrine.]

1. A wayfarer; a wanderer; a traveler; a stranger.
Strangers and pilgrims on the earth. Heb. xi. 13.

2. One who travels far, or in strange lands, to visit some holy place
or shrine as a devotee; as, a pilgrim to Loretto; Canterbury
pilgrims. See Palmer. P. Plowman.

PILGRIM
Pil"grim, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a pilgrim, or pilgrims; making pilgrimages.
"With pilgrim steps." Milton. Pilgrim fathers, a name popularly given
to the one hundred and two English colonists who landed from the
Mayflower and made the first settlement in New England at Plymouth in
1620. They were separatists from the Church of England, and most of
them had sojourned in Holland.

PILGRIM
Pil"grim, v. i.

Defn: To journey; to wander; to ramble. [R.] Grew. Carlyle.

PILGRIMAGE
Pil"grim*age, n. Etym: [OE. pilgrimage, pelgrinage; cf. F.
pèlerinage.]

1. The journey of a pilgrim; a long journey; especially, a journey to
a shrine or other sacred place. Fig., the journey of human life.
Shak.
The days of the years of my pilgrimage. Gen. xlvii. 9.

2. A tedious and wearisome time.
In prison hast thou spent a pilgrimage. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Journey; tour; excursion. See Journey.

PILGRIMIZE
Pil"grim*ize, v. i.

Defn: To wander as a pilgrim; to go on a pilgrimage. [Obs.] B.
Jonson.

PILIDIUM
Pi*lid"i*um, n.; pl. Pildia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The free-swimming, hat-shaped larva of certain nemertean worms.
It has no resemblance to its parent, and the young worm develops in
its interior.

PILIFERA
Pi*lif"e*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Piliferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Mammalia.

PILIFEROUS
Pi*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. pilus hair + -ferous: cf. F. pilifère.]

1. Bearing a single slender bristle, or hair.

2. Beset with hairs.

PILIFORM
Pil"i*form, a. Etym: [L. pilus hair + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling hairs or down.

PILIGEROUS
Pi*lig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. pilus hair + -gerous: cf. F. piligère.]

Defn: Bearing hair; covered with hair or down; piliferous.

PILING
Pil"ing, n. Etym: [See Pile a heap.]

1. The act of heaping up.

2. (Iron Manuf.)

Defn: The process of building up, heating, and working, fagots, or
piles, to form bars, etc.

PILING
Pil"ing, n. Etym: [See Pile a stake.]

Defn: A series of piles; piles considered collectively; as, the
piling of a bridge. Pug piling, sheet piles connected together at the
edges by dovetailed tongues and grooves.
 -- Sheet piling, a series of piles made of planks or half logs
driven edge to edge, -- used to form the walls of cofferdams, etc.

PILL
Pill, n. Etym: [Cf. Peel skin, or Pillion.]

Defn: The peel or skin. [Obs.] "Some be covered over with crusts, or
hard pills, as the locusts." Holland.

PILL
Pill, v. i.

Defn: To be peeled; to peel off in flakes.

PILL
Pill, v. t. Etym: [Cf. L. pilare to deprive of hair, and E. pill, n.
(above).]

1. To deprive of hair; to make bald. [Obs.]

2. To peel; to make by removing the skin.
[Jacob] pilled white streaks . . . in the rods. Gen. xxx. 37.

PILL
Pill, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Pilled; p. pr. & vb. n. Pilling.]
Etym: [F. piller, L. pilare; cf. It. pigliare to take. Cf. Peel to
plunder.]

Defn: To rob; to plunder; to pillage; to peel. See Peel, to plunder.
[Obs.] Spenser.
Pillers and robbers were come in to the field to pill and to rob. Sir
T. Malroy.

PILL
Pill, n. Etym: [F. pilute, L. pilula a pill, little ball, dim. of L.
pila a ball. Cf. Piles.]

1. A medicine in the form of a little ball, or small round mass, to
be swallowed whole.

2. Figuratively, something offensive or nauseous which must be
accepted or endured. Udall. Pill beetle (Zoöl.), any small beetle of
the genus Byrrhus, having a rounded body, with the head concealed
beneath the thorax.
 -- Pill bug (Zoöl.), any terrestrial isopod of the genus Armadillo,
having the habit of rolling itself into a ball when disturbed. Called
also pill wood louse.

PILLAGE
Pil"lage, n. Etym: [F., fr. piller to plunder. See Pill to plunder.]

1. The act of pillaging; robbery. Shak.

2. That which is taken from another or others by open force,
particularly and chiefly from enemies in war; plunder; spoil; booty.
Which pillage they with merry march bring home. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Plunder; rapine; spoil; depredation.
 -- Pillage, Plunder. Pillage refers particularly to the act of
stripping the sufferers of their goods, while plunder refers to the
removal of the things thus taken; but the words are freely
interchanged.

PILLAGE
Pil"lage, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pillaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Pillaging.]

Defn: To strip of money or goods by open violence; to plunder; to
spoil; to lay waste; as, to pillage the camp of an enemy.
Mummius . . . took, pillaged, and burnt their city. Arbuthnot.

PILLAGE
Pil"lage, v. i.

Defn: To take spoil; to plunder; to ravage.
They were suffered to pillage wherever they went. Macaulay.

PILLAGER
Pil"la*ger, n.

Defn: One who pillages. Pope.

PILLAR
Pil"lar, n. Etym: [OE. pilerF. pilier, LL. pilare, pilarium,
pilarius, fr. L. pila a pillar. See Pile a heap.]

1. The general and popular term for a firm, upright, insulated
support for a superstructure; a pier, column, or post; also, a column
or shaft not supporting a superstructure, as one erected for a
monument or an ornament.
Jacob set a pillar upon her grave. Gen. xxxv. 20.
The place . . . vast and proud, Supported by a hundred pillars stood.
Dryden.

2. Figuratively, that which resembles such a pillar in appearance,
character, or office; a supporter or mainstay; as, the Pillars of
Hercules; a pillar of the state. "You are a well-deserving pillar."
Shak.
By day a cloud, by night a pillar of fire. Milton.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A portable ornamental column, formerly carried before a
cardinal, as emblematic of his support to the church. [Obs.] Skelton.

4. (Man.)

Defn: The center of the volta, ring, or manege ground, around which a
horse turns. From pillar to post, hither and thither; to and fro;
from one place or predicament to another; backward and forward.
[Colloq.] -- Pillar saint. See Stylite.
 -- Pillars of the fauces. See Fauces, 1.

PILLAR
Pil"lar, a. (Mach.)

Defn: Having a support in the form of a pillar, instead of legs; as,
a pillar drill.

PILLAR-BLOCK
Pil"lar-block`, n.

Defn: See under Pillow.

PILLARED
Pil"lared, a.

Defn: Supported or ornamented by pillars; resembling a pillar, or
pillars. "The pillared arches." Sir W. Scott. "Pillared flame."
Thomson.

PILLARET
Pil"lar*et, n.

Defn: A little pillar. [R.] Fuller.

PILLARIST
Pil"lar*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: See Stylite.

PILLAU
Pil*lau", n. Etym: [Per. & Turk. pilau.]

Defn: An Oriental dish consisting of rice boiled with mutton, fat, or
butter. [Written also pilau.]

PILLED
Pilled, a. Etym: [See 3rd Pill.]

Defn: Stripped of hair; scant of hair; bald. [Obs.] "Pilled beard."
Chaucer.

PILLED-GARLIC
Pilled"-gar"lic, n.

Defn: See Pilgarlic.

PILLER
Pill"er, n.

Defn: One who pills or plunders. [Obs.]

PILLERY
Pill"er*y, n.; pl. Pilleries (.

Defn: Plunder; pillage. [Obs.] Daniel.

PILLION
Pil"lion, n. Etym: [Ir. pillin, pilliun (akin to Gael. pillean,
pillin), fr. Ir. & Gael. pill, peall, a skin or hide, prob. fr. L.
pellis. See Pell, n., Fell skin.]

Defn: A panel or cushion saddle; the under pad or cushion of saddle;
esp., a pad or cushion put on behind a man's saddle, on which a woman
may ride.
His [a soldier's] shank pillion without stirrups. Spenser.

PILLORIZE
Pil"lo*rize, v. t.

Defn: To set in, or punish with, the pillory; to pillory. [R.]

PILLORY
Pil"lo*ry, n.; pl. Pillories. Etym: [F. pilori; cf. Pr. espitlori,
LL. piloricum, pilloricum, pellericum, pellorium, pilorium,
spilorium; perhaps from a derivative of L. speculari to look around,
observe. Cf. Speculate.]

Defn: A frame of adjustable boards erected on a post, and having
holes through which the head and hands of an offender were thrust so
as to be exposed in front of it. Shak.

PILLORY
Pil"lo*ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pilloried; p. pr. & vb. n.
Pillorying.] Etym: [Cf. F. pilorier.]

1. To set in, or punish with, the pillory. "Hungering for Puritans to
pillory." Macaulay.

2. Figuratively, to expose to public scorn. Gladstone.

PILLOW
Pil"low, n. Etym: [OE. pilwe, AS. pyle, fr. L. pilvinus.]

1. Anything used to support the head of a person when reposing;
especially, a sack or case filled with feathers, down, hair, or other
soft material.
[Resty sloth] finds the down pillow hard. Shak.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A piece of metal or wood, forming a support to equalize
pressure; a brass; a pillow block. [R.]

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A block under the inner end of a bowsprit.

4. A kind of plain, coarse fustian. Lace pillow, a cushion used in
making hand-wrought lace.
 -- Pillow bier Etym: [OE. pilwebere; cf. LG. büre a pillowcase], a
pillowcase; pillow slip. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- Pillow block (Mach.), a block, or standard, for supporting a
journal, as of a shaft. It is usually bolted to the frame or
foundation of a machine, and is often furnished with journal boxes,
and a movable cover, or cap, for tightening the bearings by means of
bolts; -- called also pillar block, or plumber block.
 -- Pillow lace, handmade lace wrought with bobbins upon a lace
pillow.
 -- Pillow of a plow, a crosspiece of wood which serves to raise or
lower the beam.
 -- Pillow sham, an ornamental covering laid over a pillow when not
in use.
 -- Pillow slip, a pillowcase.

PILLOW
Pil"low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pillowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Pillowing.]

Defn: To rest or lay upon, or as upon, a pillow; to support; as, to
pillow the head.
Pillows his chin upon an orient wave. Milton.

PILLOWCASE
Pil"low*case`, n.

Defn: A removable case or covering for a pillow, usually of white
linen or cotton cloth.

PILLOWED
Pil"lowed, a.

Defn: Provided with a pillow or pillows; having the head resting on,
or as on, a pillow.
Pillowedon buckler cold and hard. Sir W. Scott.

PILLOW LACE
Pil"low lace.

Defn: Lace made by hand with bobbins on a pillow.

PILLOWY
Pil"low*y, a.

Defn: Like a pillow. Keats.

PILL-WILLET
Pill"-wil`let, n. Etym: [So named from its note.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The willet.

PILLWORM
Pill"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any myriapod of the genus Iulus and allied genera which rolls
up spirally; a galleyworm. See Illust. under Myriapod.

PILLWORT
Pill"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Pilularia; minute aquatic cryptograms,
with small pill-shaped fruit; -- sometimes called peppergrass.

PILOCARPINE
Pi`lo*car"pine, n. Etym: [From NL. Pilocarpus pennatifolius
jaborandi; L. pilus hair + Gr. pilocarpine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid extracted from jaborandi (Pilocarpus pennatifolius)
as a white amorphous or crystalline substance which has a peculiar
effect on the vasomotor system.

PILON
Pi*lon", n. [Sp., sugar loaf.] [Sp. Amer.]

1. A conical loaf of sugar.

2.  A gratuity given by tradesmen to customers settling their
accounts. [Southern U. S.]

PILONCE
Pi*lon"ce, n. [Amer. Sp. See Piloncillo.]

Defn: Same as Pilon. [Texas]

PILONCILLO
Pi`lon*cil"lo, n. [Amer. Sp., dim. of pilon.]

Defn: Same as Pilon. [Texas]

PILOSE
Pi*lose", a. Etym: [L. pilosus, fr. pilus hair. See Pile.]

1. Hairy; full of, or made of, hair.
The heat-retaining property of the pilose covering. Owen.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Clothed thickly with pile or soft down.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Covered with long, slender hairs; resembling long hairs; hairy;
as, pilose pubescence.

PILOSITY
Pi*los"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pilosité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being pilose; hairiness. Bacon.

PILOT
Pi"lot, n. Etym: [F. pilote, prob. from D. peillood plummet, sounding
lead; peilen, pegelen, to sound, measure (fr. D. & G. peil, pegel, a
sort of measure, water mark) + lood lead, akin to E. lead. The pilot,
then, is the lead man, i.e., he who throws the lead. See Pail, and
Lead a metal.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: One employed to steer a vessel; a helmsman; a steersman.
Dryden.

2. Specifically, a person duly qualified, and licensed by authority,
to conduct vessels into and out of a port, or in certain waters, for
a fixed rate of fees.

3. Figuratively: A guide; a director of another through a difficult
or unknown course.

4. An instrument for detecting the compass error.

5. The cowcatcher of a locomotive. [U.S.] Pilot balloon, a small
balloon sent up in advance of a large one, to show the direction and
force of the wind.
 -- Pilot bird. (Zoöl.) (a) A bird found near the Caribbee Islands; -
- so called because its presence indicates to mariners their approach
to these islands. Crabb. (b) The black-bellied plover. [Local, U.S.]
-- Pilot boat, a strong, fast-sailing boat used to carry and receive
pilots as they board and leave vessels.
 -- Pilot bread, ship biscuit.
 -- Pilot cloth, a coarse, stout kind of cloth for overcoats.
 -- Pilot engine, a locomotive going in advance of a train to make
sure that the way is clear.
 -- Pilot fish. (Zoöl) (a) A pelagic carangoid fish (Naucrates
ductor); -- so named because it is often seen in company with a
shark, swimming near a ship, on account of which sailors imagine that
it acts as a pilot to the shark. (b) The rudder fish (Seriola
zonata).
 -- Pilot jack, a flag or signal hoisted by a vessel for a pilot.
 -- Pilot jacket, a pea jacket.
 -- Pilot nut (Bridge Building), a conical nut applied temporarily to
the threaded end of a pin, to protect the thread and guide the pin
when it is driven into a hole. Waddell.
 -- Pilot snake (Zoöl.) (a) A large North American snake (Coluber
obsoleus). It is lustrous black, with white edges to some of the
scales. Called also mountain black snake. (b) The pine snake.
 -- Pilot whale. (Zoöl.) Same as Blackfish, 1.

PILOT
Pi"lot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Piloted; p. pr. & vb. n. Piloting.] Etym:
[Cf. F. piloter.]

1. To direct the course of, as of a ship, where navigation is
dangerous.

2. Figuratively: To guide, as through dangers or difficulties. "The
art of piloting a state." Berkeley.

PILOTAGE
Pi"lot*age, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pilotage.]

1. The pilot's skill or knowledge, as of coasts, rocks, bars, and
channels. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

2. The compensation made or allowed to a pilot.

3. Guidance, as by a pilot. Sir W. Scott.

PILOT BALLOON
Pilot balloon.

Defn: A small, unmanned balloon sent up to indicate the direction of
air currents.

PILOT FLAG
Pilot flag.

Defn: The flag hoisted at the fore by a vessel desiring a pilot, in
the United States the union jack, in Great Britain the British union
jack with a white border.

PILOTISM; PILOTRY
Pi"lot*ism, Pi"lot*ry, n.

Defn: Pilotage; skill in the duties of a pilot. [R.]

PILOT LAMP; PILOT LIGHT
Pilot lamp or light . (Elec.)

Defn: A small incandescent telltale lamp on a dynamo or battery
circuit to show approximately by its brightness the voltage of the
current.

PILOT VALVE
Pilot valve. (Hydraulics)

Defn: A small hand-operated valve to admit liquid to operate a valve
difficult to turn by hand.

PILOT WHEEL
Pilot wheel. (Mach.)

Defn: A wheel, usually with radial handles projecting from the rim,
for traversing the saddle of a machine tool, esp. an automatic
machine tool, by hand.

PILOUR
Pil"our, n.

Defn: A piller; a plunderer. [Obs.]

PILOUS
Pil"ous, a.

Defn: See Pilose.

PILPUL
Pil"pul, n. [Aramaic pilpul; cf. Heb. pilpel to spice, to season,
dispute violently.]

Defn: Among the Jews, penetrating investigation, disputation, and
drawing of conclusions, esp. in Talmudic study. -- Pil"pul*ist (#),
n. --Pil`pul*is"tic (#), a.

PILSER
Pil"ser, n.

Defn: An insect that flies into a flame.

PILULAR
Pil"u*lar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to pills; resembling a pill or pills; as, a
pilular mass.

PILULOUS
Pil"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. pilula a pill. See Pill.]

Defn: Like a pill; small; insignificant. [R.] G. Eliot.

PILWE
Pil"we, n.

Defn: A pillow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

PILY
Pi"ly, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like pile or wool.

PIMARIC
Pi*mar"ic, a. Etym: [NL. pinum maritima, an old name for P. Pinaster,
a pine which yields galipot.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in galipot, and
isomeric with abietic acid.

PIMELIC
Pi*mel"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)
(a) Pertaining to, or designating, a substance obtained from certain
fatty substances, and subsequently shown to be a mixture of suberic
and adipic acids.
(b) Designating the acid proper (C5H10(CO2/H)2) which is obtained
from camphoric acid.

PIMELITE
Pim"e*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: An apple-green mineral having a greasy feel. It is a hydrous
silicate of nickel, magnesia, aluminia, and iron.

PIMENT
Pi"ment, n. Etym: [F. See Pimento.]

Defn: Wine flavored with spice or honey. See Pigment, 3. [Obs.]

PIMENTA
Pi*men"ta, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Pimento.

PIMENTO
Pi*men"to, n. Etym: [Sp. pimiento, pimienta; cf. Pg. pimenta, F.
piment; all fr. L. pigmentum a paint, pigment, the juice of plants;
hence, something spicy and aromatic. See Pigment.] (Bot.)

Defn: Allspice; -- applied both to the tree and its fruit. See
Allspice.

PIMIENTO
Pi*mien"to, n. [Sp.]

Defn: The Spanish sweet pepper, the fruit of which is used as a
vegetable, to stuff olives, etc.

PIMLICO
Pim"li*co, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The friar bird.

PIMOLA
Pim*o"la, n.

Defn: An olive stuffed with a kind of sweet red pepper, or pimiento.

PIMP
Pimp, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pimpant smart, sparkish; perh. akin to piper
to pipe, formerly also, to excel. Cf. Pipe.]

Defn: One who provides gratification for the lust of others; a
procurer; a pander. Swift.

PIMP
Pimp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pimped; p. pr. & vb. n. Pimping.]

Defn: To procure women for the gratification of others' lusts; to
pander. Dryden.

PIMPERNEL
Pim"per*nel, n. Etym: [F. pimprenelle; cf. Sp. pimpinela, It.
pimpinella; perh. from LL. bipinnella, for bipinnula two-winged,
equiv. to L. bipennis; bis twice + penna feather, wing. Cf. Pen a
feather.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Anagallis, of which one species (A.
arvensis) has small flowers, usually scarlet, but sometimes purple,
blue, or white, which speedily close at the approach of bad weather.
Water pimpernel. (Bot.) See Brookweed.

PIMPILLO
Pim"pil*lo, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian name for the prickly pear (Opuntia); -- called
also pimploes.

PIMPINEL
Pim"pi*nel, n. Etym: [See Pimpernel.] (Bot.)

Defn: The burnet saxifrage. See under Saxifrage.

PIMPING
Pimp"ing, a. Etym: [Cf. G. pimpelig, pimpelnd, sickly, weak.]

1. Little; petty; pitiful. [Obs.] Crabbe.

2. Puny; sickly. [Local, U.S.]

PIMPLE
Pim"ple, n. Etym: [AS. pipelian to blister; cf. L. papula pimple.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Any small acuminated elevation of the cuticle, whether going on
to suppuration or not. "All eyes can see a pimple on her nose." Pope.

2. Fig.: A swelling or protuberance like a pimple. "A pimple that
portends a future sprout." Cowper.

PIMPLED
Pim"pled, a.

Defn: Having pimples. Johnson.

PIMPLY
Pim"ply, a.

Defn: Pimpled.

PIMPSHIP
Pimp"ship, n.

Defn: The office, occupation, or persom of a pimp. [R.]

PIN
Pin, v. t. (Metal Working)

Defn: To peen.

PIN
Pin, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Pen to confine, or Pinfold.]

Defn: To inclose; to confine; to pen; to pound.

PIN
Pin, n. Etym: [OE. pinne, AS. pinn a pin, peg; cf. D. pin, G. pinne,
Icel. pinni, W. pin, Gael. & Ir. pinne; all fr. L. pinna a pinnacle,
pin, feather, perhaps orig. a different word from pinna feather. Cf.
Fin of a fish, Pen a feather.]

1. A piece of wood, metal, etc., generally cylindrical, used for
fastening separate articles together, or as a support by which one
article may be suspended from another; a peg; a bolt.
With pins of adamant And chains they made all fast. Milton.

2. Especially, a small, pointed and headed piece of brass or other
wire (commonly tinned), largely used for fastening clothes, attaching
papers, etc.

3. Hence, a thing of small value; a trifle.
He . . . did not care a pin for her. Spectator.

4. That which resembles a pin in its form or use; as:
(a) A peg in musical instruments, for increasing or relaxing the
tension of the strings.
(b) A linchpin.
(c) A rolling-pin.
(d) A clothespin.
(e) (Mach.) A short shaft, sometimes forming a bolt, a part of which
serves as a journal. See Illust. of Knuckle joint, under Knuckle.
(f) (Joinery) The tenon of a dovetail joint.

5. One of a row of pegs in the side of an ancient drinking cup to
mark how much each man should drink.

6. The bull's eye, or center, of a target; hence, the center. [Obs.]
"The very pin of his heart cleft." Shak.

7. Mood; humor. [Obs.] "In merry pin." Cowper.

8. (Med.)

Defn: Caligo. See Caligo. Shak.

9. An ornament, as a brooch or badge, fastened to the clothing by a
pin; as, a Masonic pin.

10. The leg; as, to knock one off his pins. [Slang] Banking pin
(Horol.), a pin against which a lever strikes, to limit its motion.
 -- Pin drill (Mech.), a drill with a central pin or projection to
enter a hole, for enlarging the hole, or for sinking a recess for the
head of a bolt, etc.; a counterbore.
 -- Pin grass. (Bot.) See Alfilaria.
 -- Pin hole, a small hole made by a pin; hence, any very small
aperture or perforation.
 -- Pin lock, a lock having a cylindrical bolt; a lock in which pins,
arranged by the key, are used instead of tumblers.
 -- Pin money, an allowance of money, as that made by a husband to
his wife, for private and personal expenditure.
 -- Pin rail (Naut.), a rail, usually within the bulwarks, to hold
belaying pins. Sometimes applied to the fife rail. Called also pin
rack.
 -- Pin wheel. (a) A contrate wheel in which the cogs are cylindrical
pins. (b) (Fireworks) A small coil which revolves on a common pin and
makes a wheel of yellow or colored fire.

PIN
Pin, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pinned; p. pr. & vb. n. Pinning.] Etym: [See
Pin, n.]

Defn: To fasten with, or as with, a pin; to join; as, to pin a
garment; to pin boards together. "Aa if she would pin her to her
heart." Shak. To pin one's faith upon, to depend upon; to trust to.

PINACATE BUG
Pin`a*ca"te bug. [Orig. uncert.]

Defn: Any of several clumsy, wingless beetles of the genus Eleodes,
found in the Pacific States.

PINA CLOTH; PINYA CLOTH
Pi"ña cloth`.

Defn: A fine material for ladies' shawls, scarfs, handkerchiefs,
etc., made from the fiber of the pineapple leaf, and perhaps from
other fibrous tropical leaves. It is delicate, soft, and transparent,
with a slight tinge of pale yellow.

PINACOID
Pin"a*coid, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A plane parallel to two of the crystalline axes.

PINACOLIN
Pi*nac"o*lin, n. Etym: [Pinacone + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless oily liquid related to the ketones, and obtained by
the decomposition of pinacone; hence, by extension, any one of the
series of which pinacolin proper is the type. [Written also
pinacoline.]

PINACONE
Pin"a*cone, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance related to the glycols, and made
from acetone; hence, by extension, any one of a series of substances
of which pinacone proper is the type. [Written also pinakone.]

PINACOTHECA
Pin`a*co*the"ca, n. Etym: [L. pinacotheca, fr. Gr.

Defn: A picture gallery.

PINAFORE
Pin"a*fore`, n. Etym: [Pin + afore.]

Defn: An apron for a child to protect the front part of dress; a
tier.

PINAKOTHEK
Pin"a*ko*thek`, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: Pinacotheca.

PINASTER
Pi*nas"ter, n. Etym: [L., fr. pinus a pine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of pine (Pinus Pinaster) growing in Southern Europe.

PINAX
Pi"nax, n.; pl. Pinaces. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: A tablet; a register; hence, a list or scheme inscribed on a
tablet. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

PINCE-NEZ
Pince`-nez", n. Etym: [F. pincer to pinch + nez nose.]

Defn: Eyeglasses kept on the nose by a spring.

PINCERS
Pin"cers, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. F. pince pinchers, fr. pincer to pinch.
See Pinch, Pinchers.]

Defn: See Pinchers.

PINCH
Pinch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pinched; p. pr. & vb. n. Pinching.] Etym:
[F. pincer, probably fr. OD. pitsen to pinch; akin to G. pfetzen to
cut, pinch; perhaps of Celtic origin. Cf. Piece.]

1. To press hard or squeeze between the ends of the fingers, between
teeth or claws, or between the jaws of an instrument; to squeeze or
compress, as between any two hard bodies.

2. o seize; to grip; to bite; -- said of animals. [Obs.]
He [the hound] pinched and pulled her down. Chapman.

3. To plait. [Obs.]
Full seemly her wimple ipinched was. Chaucer.

4. Figuratively: To cramp; to straiten; to oppress; to starve; to
distress; as, to be pinched for money.
Want of room . . . pinching a whole nation. Sir W. Raleigh.

5. To move, as a railroad car, by prying the wheels with a pinch. See
Pinch, n., 4.

PINCH
Pinch, v. i.

1. To act with pressing force; to compress; to squeeze; as, the shoe
pinches."

2. (Hunt.)

Defn: To take hold; to grip, as a dog does. [Obs.]

3. To spare; to be niggardly; to be covetous. Gower.
The wretch whom avarice bids to pinch and spare. Franklin.
To pinch at, to find fault with; to take exception to. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

PINCH
Pinch, n.

1. A close compression, as with the ends of the fingers, or with an
instrument; a nip.

2. As much as may be taken between the finger and thumb; any very
small quantity; as, a pinch of snuff.

3. Pian; pang. "Necessary's sharp pinch." Shak.

4. A lever having a projection at one end, acting as a fulcrum, --
used chiefly to roll heavy wheels, etc. Called also pinch bar. At a
pinch, On a pinch, in an emergency; as, he could on a pinch read a
little Latin.

PINCHBECK
Pinch"beck, n. Etym: [Said to be from the name of the inventor; cf.
It. prencisbecco.]

Defn: An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling gold; a yellow metal,
composed of about three ounces of zinc to a pound of copper. It is
much used as an imitation of gold in the manufacture of cheap
jewelry.

PINCHBECK
Pinch"beck, a.

Defn: Made of pinchbeck; sham; cheap; spurious; unreal. "A pinchbeck
throne." J. A. Symonds.

PINCHCOCK
Pinch"cock`, n.

Defn: A clamp on a flexible pipe to regulate the flow of a fluid
through the pipe.

PINCHEM
Pin"chem, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.]

PINCHER
Pinch"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, pinches.

PINCHERS
Pinch"ers, n. pl. Etym: [From Pinch.]

Defn: An instrument having two handles and two grasping jaws working
on a pivot; -- used for griping things to be held fast, drawing
nails, etc.

Note: This spelling is preferable to pincers, both on account of its
derivation from the English pinch, and because it represents the
common pronunciation.

PINCHFIST
Pinch"fist`, n.

Defn: A closefisted person; a miser.

PINCHING
Pinch"ing, a.

Defn: Compressing; nipping; griping; niggardly; as, pinching cold; a
pinching parsimony. Pinching bar, a pinch bar. See Pinch, n., 4.
 -- Pinching nut, a check nut. See under Check, n.

PINCHINGLY
Pinch"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a pinching way.

PINCHPENNY
Pinch"pen`ny, n.

Defn: A miserly person.

PINCOFFIN
Pin"coff*in, n. Etym: [From Pincoff, an English manufacturer.]

Defn: A commercial preparation of garancin, yielding fine violet
tints.

PINCPINC
Pinc"pinc`, n. Etym: [Named from its note.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African wren warbler. (Drymoica textrix).

PINCUSHION
Pin"cush`ion, n.

Defn: A small cushion, in which pins may be stuck for use.

PINDAL; PINDAR
Pin"dal, Pin"dar, n. Etym: [D. piendel.] (Bot.)

Defn: The peanut (Arachis hypogæa); -- so called in the West Indies.

PINDARIC
Pin*dar"ic, a. Etym: [L. Pindaricus, Gr. Pindarus) Pindar: cf. F.
pindarique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Pindar, the Greek lyric poet; after the
style and manner of Pindar; as, Pindaric odes.
 -- n.

Defn: A Pindaric ode.

PINDARICAL
Pin*dar"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pindaric.
Too extravagant and Pindarical for prose. Cowley.

PINDARISM
Pin"dar*ism, n.

Defn: Imitation of Pindar.

PINDARIST
Pin"dar*ist, n.

Defn: One who imitates Pindar.

PINDER
Pin"der, n. Etym: [AS. pyndan to pen up, fr. pund a pound.]

Defn: One who impounds; a poundkeeper. [Obs.]

PINE
Pine, n. Etym: [AS. pin, L. poena penalty. See Pain.]

Defn: Woe; torment; pain. [Obs.] "Pyne of hell." Chaucer.

PINE
Pine, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pined; p. pr. & vb. n. Pining.] Etym: [AS.
pinan to torment, fr. pin torment. See 1st Pine, Pain, n. & v.]

1. To inflict pain upon; to torment; to torture; to afflict. [Obs.]
Chaucer. Shak.
That people that pyned him to death. Piers Plowman.
One is pined in prison, another tortured on the rack. Bp. Hall.

2. To grieve or mourn for. [R.] Milton.