

PINE
Pine, v. i.

1. To suffer; to be afflicted. [Obs.]

2. To languish; to lose flesh or wear away, under any distress or
anexiety of mind; to droop; -- often used with away. "The roses
wither and the lilies pine." Tickell.

3. To languish with desire; to waste away with longing for something;
-- usually followed by for.
For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pined. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To languish; droop; flag; wither; decay.

PINE
Pine, n. Etym: [AS. pin, L. pinus.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Any tree of the coniferous genus Pinus. See Pinus.

Note: There are about twenty-eight species in the United States, of
which the white pine (P. Strobus), the Georgia pine (P. australis),
the red pine (P. resinosa), and the great West Coast sugar pine (P.
Lambertiana) are among the most valuable. The Scotch pine or fir,
also called Norway or Riga pine (Pinus sylvestris), is the only
British species. The nut pine is any pine tree, or species of pine,
which bears large edible seeds. See Pinon. The spruces, firs,
larches, and true cedars, though formerly considered pines, are now
commonly assigned to other genera.

2. The wood of the pine tree.

3. A pineapple. Ground pine. (Bot.) See under Ground.
 -- Norfolk Island pine (Bot.), a beautiful coniferous tree, the
Araucaria excelsa.
 -- Pine barren, a tract of infertile land which is covered with
pines. [Southern U.S.] -- Pine borer (Zoöl.), any beetle whose larvæ
bore into pine trees.
 -- Pine finch. (Zoöl.) See Pinefinch, in the Vocabulary.
 -- Pine grosbeak (Zoöl.), a large grosbeak (Pinicola enucleator),
which inhabits the northern parts of both hemispheres. The adult male
is more or less tinged with red.
 -- Pine lizard (Zoöl.), a small, very active, mottled gray lizard
(Sceloporus undulatus), native of the Middle States; -- called also
swift, brown scorpion, and alligator.
 -- Pine marten. (Zoöl.) (a) A European weasel (Mustela martes),
called also sweet marten, and yellow-breasted marten. (b) The
American sable. See Sable.
 -- Pine moth (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small tortricid
moths of the genus Retinia, whose larvæ burrow in the ends of the
branchlets of pine trees, often doing great damage.
 -- Pine mouse (Zoöl.), an American wild mouse (Arvicola pinetorum),
native of the Middle States. It lives in pine forests.
 -- Pine needle (Bot.), one of the slender needle-shaped leaves of a
pine tree. See Pinus.
 -- Pine-needle wool. See Pine wool (below).
 -- Pine oil, an oil resembling turpentine, obtained from fir and
pine trees, and used in making varnishes and colors.
 -- Pine snake (Zoöl.), a large harmless North American snake
(Pituophis melanoleucus). It is whitish, covered with brown blotches
having black margins. Called also bull snake. The Western pine snake
(P. Sayi) is chestnut-brown, mottled with black and orange.
 -- Pine tree (Bot.), a tree of the genus Pinus; pine.
 -- Pine-tree money, money coined in Massachusetts in the seventeenth
century, and so called from its bearing a figure of a pine tree.
 -- Pine weevil (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of weevils whose
larvæ bore in the wood of pine trees. Several species are known in
both Europe and America, belonging to the genera Pissodes, Hylobius,
etc.
 -- Pine wool, a fiber obtained from pine needles by steaming them.
It is prepared on a large scale in some of the Southern United
States, and has many uses in the economic arts; -- called also pine-
needle wool, and pine-wood wool.

PINEAL
Pi"ne*al, a. Etym: [L. pinea the cone of a pine, from pineus of the
pine, from pinus a pine: cf. F. pinéale.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a pine cone; resembling a pine cone. Pineal
gland (Anat.), a glandlike body in the roof of the third ventricle of
the vertebrate brain; -- called also pineal body, epiphysis,
conarium. In some animals it is connected with a rudimentary eye, the
so-called pineal eye, and in other animals it is supposed to be the
remnant of a dorsal median eye.

PINEAPPLE
Pine"ap`ple, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tropical plant (Ananassa sativa); also, its fruit; -- so
called from the resemblance of the latter, in shape and external
appearance, to the cone of the pine tree. Its origin is unknown,
though conjectured to be American.

PINEASTER
Pine`as"ter, n.

Defn: See Pinaster.

PINE-CLAD; PINE-CROWNED
Pine"-clad`, Pine"-crowned`, a.

Defn: Clad or crowned with pine trees; as, pine-clad hills.

PINEDROPS
Pine"drops`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A reddish herb (Pterospora andromedea) of the United States,
found parasitic on the roots of pine trees.

PINEFINCH
Pine"finch`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small American bird (Spinus, or Chrysomitris, spinus); --
called also pine siskin, and American siskin.
(b) The pine grosbeak.

PINENCHYMA
Pi*nen"chy*ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -enchyma, as in parenchyma.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Tabular parenchyma, a form of cellular tissue in which the
cells are broad and flat, as in some kinds of epidermis.

PINERY
Pin"er*y, n.; pl. Pineries (.

1. A pine forest; a grove of pines.

2. A hothouse in which pineapples are grown.

PINESAP
Pine"sap`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A reddish fleshy herb of the genus Monotropa (M. hypopitys),
formerly thought to be parasitic on the roots of pine trees, but more
probably saprophytic.

PINE-TREE STATE
Pine-tree State.

Defn: Maine; -- a nickname alluding to the pine tree in its coat of
arms.

PINETUM
Pi*ne"tum, n. Etym: [L., a pine grove.]

Defn: A plantation of pine trees; esp., a collection of living pine
trees made for ornamental or scientific purposes.

PINEWEED
Pine"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A low, bushy, nearly leafless herb (Hypericum Sarothra), common
in sandy soil in the Eastern United States.

PINEY
Pin"ey, a.

Defn: See Piny.

PINEY
Pin"ey, a. Etym: [Of East Indian origin.]

Defn: A term used in designating an East Indian tree (the Vateria
Indica or piney tree, of the order Dipterocarpeæ, which grows in
Malabar, etc.) or its products. Piney dammar, Piney resin, Piney
varnish, a pellucid, fragrant, acrid, bitter resin, which exudes from
the piney tree (Vateria Indica) when wounded. It is used as a
varnish, in making candles, and as a substitute for incense and for
amber. Called also liquid copal, and white dammar.
 -- Piney tallow, a solid fatty substance, resembling tallow,
obtained from the roasted seeds of the Vateria Indica; called also
dupada oil.
 -- Piney thistle (Bot.), a plant (Atractylis gummifera), from the
bark of which, when wounded, a gummy substance exudes.

PIN-EYED
Pin"-eyed`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the stigma visible at the throad of a gamopetalous
corolla, while the stamens are concealed in the tube; -- said of
dimorphous flowers. The opposite of Ant: thrum-eyed.

PINFEATHER
Pin"feath`er, n.

Defn: A feather not fully developed; esp., a rudimentary feather just
emerging through the skin.

PINFEATHERED
Pin"feath`ered, a.

Defn: Having part, or all, of the feathers imperfectly developed.

PIN-FIRE
Pin"-fire`, a. (Mil.)

Defn: Having a firing pin to explode the cartridge; as, a pin-fire
rifle.

PINFISH
Pin"fish`, n. Etym: [So called from their sharp dorsal spines.]
(Zoöl.)
(a) The sailor's choice (Diplodus, or Lagodon, rhomboides).
(b) The salt-water bream (Diplodus Holbrooki).

Note: Both are excellent food fishes, common on the coast of the
United States south of Cape Hatteras. The name is also applied to
other allied species.

PINFOLD
Pin"fold`, n. Etym: [For pindfold. See Pinder, Pound an inclosure,
and Fold an inclosure.]

Defn: A place in which stray cattle or domestic animals are confined;
a pound; a penfold. Shak.
A parish pinfold begirt by its high hedge. Sir W. Scott.

PING
Ping, n. Etym: [Probably of imitative origin.]

Defn: The sound made by a bullet in striking a solid object or in
passing through the air.

PING
Ping, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pinged; p. pr. & vb. n. Pinging.]

Defn: To make the sound called ping.

PINGLE
Pin"gle, n. Etym: [Perhaps fr. pin to impound.]

Defn: A small piece of inclosed ground. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

PING-PONG
Ping"-pong`, n. [Imitative.]

1. An indoor modification of lawn tennis played with small bats, or
battledores, and a very light, hollow, celluloid ball, on a large
table divided across the middle by a net.

2.  A size of photograph a little larger than a postage stamp.

PING-PONG
Ping"-pong`, v. i.

Defn: To play ping-pong.

PINGSTER
Ping"ster, n.

Defn: See Pinkster.

PINGUEFACTION
Pin`gue*fac"tion, n. [L. pinguefacere, pinguefactum, to fatten;
pinguis fat + facere to make.] (Med.)

Defn: A making of, or turning into, fat.

PINGUICULA
Pin*guic"u*la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. pinguiculus somewhat fat,
fattish.] (Bot.)

Defn: See Butterwort.

PINGUID
Pin"guid, a. Etym: [L. pinguis fat.]

Defn: Fat; unctuous; greasy. [Obs.] "Some clays are more pinguid."
Mortimer.

PINGUIDINOUS
Pin*guid"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. pinguedo fatness, fr. pinguis fat.]

Defn: Containing fat; fatty. [Obs.]

PINGUITUDE
Pin"gui*tude, n. Etym: [L. pinguitudo, from pinguis fat.]

Defn: Fatness; a growing fat; obesity. [R.]

PINHOLD
Pin"hold`, n.

Defn: A place where a pin is fixed.

PINIC
Pi"nic ( a. Etym: [L. pinus pine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the pine; obtained from the pine; formerly,
designating an acid which is the chief constituent of common resin, -
- now called abietic, or sylvic, acid.

PINING
Pin"ing, a.

1. Languishing; drooping; wasting away, as with longing.

2. Wasting; consuming. "The pining malady of France." Shak.

PININGLY
Pin"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a pining manner; droopingly. Poe.

PINION
Pin"ion, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A moth of the genus Lithophane, as L. antennata, whose larva
bores large holes in young peaches and apples.

PINION
Pin"ion, n. Etym: [OF. pignon a pen, F., gable, pinion (in sense 5);
cf. Sp. piñon pinion; fr. L. pinna pinnacle, feather, wing. See Pin a
peg, and cf. Pen a feather, Pennat, Pennon.]

1. A feather; a quill. Shak.

2. A wing, literal or figurative.
Swift on his sooty pinions flits the gnome. Pope.

3. The joint of bird's wing most remote from the body. Johnson.

4. A fetter for the arm. Ainsworth.

5. (Mech.)

Defn: A cogwheel with a small number of teeth, or leaves, adapted to
engage with a larger wheel, or rack (see Rack); esp., such a wheel
having its leaves formed of the substance of the arbor or spindle
which is its axis. Lantern pinion. See under Lantern.
 -- Pinion wire, wire fluted longitudinally, for making the pinions
of clocks and watches. It is formed by being drawn through holes of
the shape required for the leaves or teeth of the pinions.

PINION
Pin"ion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pinioned; p. pr. & vb. n. Pinioning.]

1. To bind or confine the wings of; to confine by binding the wings.
Bacon.

2. To disable by cutting off the pinion joint. Johnson.

3. To disable or restrain, as a person, by binding the arms, esp. by
binding the arms to the body. Shak.
Her elbows pinioned close upon her hips. Cowper.

4. Hence, generally, to confine; to bind; to tie up. "Pinioned up by
formal rules of state." Norris.

PINIONED
Pin"ioned, a.

Defn: Having wings or pinions.

PINIONIST
Pin"ion*ist, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any winged creature.

PINITE
Pin"ite, n. Etym: [So called from Pini, a mine in Saxony.] (Min.)

Defn: A compact granular cryptocrystalline mineral of a dull grayish
or greenish white color. It is a hydrous alkaline silicate, and is
derived from the alteration of other minerals, as iolite.

PINITE
Pi"nite, n. Etym: [L. pinus the pine tree.]

1. (Paleon.) Any fossil wood which exhibits traces of having belonged
to the Pine family.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A sweet white crystalline substance extracted from the gum of a
species of pine (Pinus Lambertina). It is isomeric with, and
resembles, quercite.

PINK
Pink, n. Etym: [D. pink.] (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel with a very narrow stern; -- called also pinky. Sir W.
Scott. Pink stern (Naut.), a narrow stern.

PINK
Pink, v. i. Etym: [D. pinken, pinkoogen, to blink, twinkle with the
eyes.]

Defn: To wink; to blink. [Obs.] L'Estrange.

PINK
Pink, a.

Defn: Half-shut; winking. [Obs.] Shak.

PINK
Pink, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Pinking.] Etym:
[OE. pinken to prick, probably a nasalized form of pick.]

1. To pierce with small holes; to cut the edge of, as cloth or paper,
in small scallops or angles.

2. To stab; to pierce as with a sword. Addison.

3. To choose; to cull; to pick out. [Obs.] Herbert.

PINK
Pink, n.

Defn: A stab. Grose.

PINK
Pink, n. Etym: [Perh. akin to pick; as if the edges of the petals
were picked out. Cf. Pink, v. t.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several plants of the caryophyllaceous genus
Dianthus, and to their flowers, which are sometimes very fragrant and
often double in cultivated varieties. The species are mostly
perennial herbs, with opposite linear leaves, and handsome five-
petaled flowers with a tubular calyx.

2. A color resulting from the combination of a pure vivid red with
more or less white; -- so called from the common color of the flower.
Dryden.

3. Anything supremely excellent; the embodiment or perfection of
something. "The very pink of courtesy." Shak.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European minnow; -- so called from the color of its abdomen
in summer. [Prov. Eng.] Bunch pink is Dianthus barbatus.
 -- China, or Indian, pink. See under China.
 -- Clove pink is Dianthus Caryophyllus, the stock from which
carnations are derived.
 -- Garden pink. See Pheasant's eye.
 -- Meadow pink is applied to Dianthus deltoides; also, to the ragged
robin.
 -- Maiden pink, Dianthus deltoides.
 -- Moss pink. See under Moss.
 -- Pink needle, the pin grass; -- so called from the long, tapering
points of the carpels. See Alfilaria.
 -- Sea pink. See Thrift.

PINK
Pink, a.

Defn: Resembling the garden pink in color; of the color called pink
(see 6th Pink, 2); as, a pink dress; pink ribbons. Pink eye (Med.), a
popular name for an epidemic variety of ophthalmia, associated with
early and marked redness of the eyeball.
 -- Pink salt (Chem. & Dyeing), the double chlorides of (stannic) tin
and ammonium, formerly much used as a mordant for madder and
cochineal.
 -- Pink saucer, a small saucer, the inner surface of which is
covered with a pink pigment.

PINKED
Pinked, a.

Defn: Pierced with small holes; worked in eyelets; scalloped on the
edge. Shak.

PINK-EYED
Pink"-eyed`, a. Etym: [Pink half-shut + eye.]

Defn: Having small eyes. Holland.

PINKING
Pink"ing, n.

1. The act of piercing or stabbing.

2. The act or method of decorating fabrics or garments with a pinking
iron; also, the style of decoration; scallops made with a pinking
iron. Pinking iron. (a) An instrument for scalloping the edges of
ribbons, flounces, etc. (b) A sword. [Colloq.]

PINKISH
Pink"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat pink.

PINKNESS
Pink"ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being pink.

PINKROOT
Pink"root`, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: The root of Spigelia Marilandica, used as a powerful vermifuge;
also, that of S. Anthelmia. See definition 2 (below).

2. (Bot.)
(a) A perennial North American herb (Spigelia Marilandica), sometimes
cultivated for its showy red blossoms. Called also Carolina pink,
Maryland pinkroot, and worm grass.
(b) An annual South American and West Indian plant (Spigelia
Anthelmia).

PINKSTER
Pink"ster, n. Etym: [D. pinkster, pinksteren, fr. Gr. Pentecost.]

Defn: Whitsuntide. [Written also pingster and pinxter.] Pinkster
flower (Bot.), the rosy flower of the Azalea nudiflora; also, the
shrub itself; -- called also Pinxter blomachee by the New York
descendants of the Dutch settlers.

PINK STERN
Pink" stern`. Etym: [See 1st Pink.] (Naut.)

Defn: See Chebacco, and 1st Pink.

PINK-STERNED
Pink"-sterned`, a. Etym: [See 1st Pink.] (Naut.)

Defn: Having a very narrow stern; -- said of a vessel.

PINKY
Pink"y, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See 1st Pink.

PINNA
Pin"na, n.; pl. Pinnæ, E. Pinnas. Etym: [L., a feather.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A leaflet of a pinnate leaf. See Illust. of Bipinnate leaf, under
Bipinnate.
(b) One of the primary divisions of a decompound leaf.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the divisions of a pinnate part or organ.

3. Etym: [L. pinna, akin to Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Pinna, a genus of large bivalve mollusks found
in all warm seas. The byssus consists of a large number of long,
silky fibers, which have been used in manufacturing woven fabrics, as
a curiosity.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: The auricle of the ear. See Ear.

PINNACE
Pin"nace, n. Etym: [F. pinasse; cf. It. pinassa, pinazza, Sp. pinaza;
all from L. pinus a pine tree, anything made of pine, e.g., a ship.
Cf. Pine a tree.]

1. (Naut.)
(a) A small vessel propelled by sails or oars, formerly employed as a
tender, or for coast defence; -- called originally, spynace or spyne.
(b) A man-of-war's boat.
Whilst our pinnace anchors in the Downs. Shak.

2. A procuress; a pimp. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

PINNACLE
Pin"na*cle, n. Etym: [OE. pinacle, F. pinacle, L. pinnaculum, fr.
pinna pinnacle, feather. See Pin a peg.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: An architectural member, upright, and generally ending in a
small spire, -- used to finish a buttress, to constitute a part in a
proportion, as where pinnacles flank a gable or spire, and the like.
Pinnacles may be considered primarily as added weight, where it is
necessary to resist the thrust of an arch, etc.
Some renowned metropolis With glistering spires and pinnacles around.
Milton.

2. Anything resembling a pinnacle; a lofty peak; a pointed summit.
Three silent pinnacles of aged snow. Tennyson.
The slippery tops of human state, The gilded pinnacles of fate.
Cowley.

PINNACLE
Pin"na*cle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pinnacled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Pinnacling.]

Defn: To build or furnish with a pinnacle or pinnacles. T. Warton.

PINNAGE
Pin"nage, n. Etym: [Cf. Pinfold.]

Defn: Poundage of cattle. See Pound. [Obs.]

PINNATE; PINNATED
Pin"nate, Pin"na*ted, a. Etym: [L. pinnatus feathered, fr. pinna a
feather. See Pin a peg, Pen feather.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of several leaflets, or separate portions, arranged
on each side of a common petiole, as the leaves of a rosebush, a
hickory, or an ash. See Abruptly pinnate, and Illust., under
Abruptly.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a winglike tuft of long feathers on each side of the
neck. Pinnated grouse (Zoöl.), the prairie chicken.

PINNATELY
Pin"nate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a pinnate manner.

PINNATIFID
Pin*nat"i*fid, a. Etym: [L. pinnatus feathered + root of findere to
split: cf. F. pinnatifide.] (Bot.)

Defn: Divided in a pinnate manner, with the divisions not reaching to
the midrib.

PINNATILOBATE
Pin*nat`i*lo"bate, a. Etym: [See Pinnate, and Lobate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having lobes arranged in a pinnate manner.

PINNATIPED
Pin*nat"i*ped, a. Etym: [L. pinnatus feathered + pes, pedis foot: cf.
F. pinnatipède.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the toes bordered by membranes; fin-footed, as certain
birds.

PINNATIPED
Pin*nat"i*ped, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird which has the toes bordered by membranes.

PINNER
Pin"ner, n.

1. One who, or that which, pins or fastens, as with pins.

2. (Costume)
(a) A headdress like a cap, with long lappets.
(b) An apron with a bib; a pinafore.
(c) A cloth band for a gown. [Obs.]
With kerchief starched, and pinners clean. Gay.

3. A pin maker.

PINNER
Pin"ner, n. Etym: [See Pin to pound.]

Defn: One who pins or impounds cattle. See Pin, v. t. [Obs.]

PINNET
Pin"net, n.

Defn: A pinnacle. [R.] Sir W. Scott.

PINNIFORM
Pin"ni*form, a. Etym: [L. pinna feather, fin + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a fin or feather. Sir J. Hill.

PINNIGRADA
Pin`ni*gra"da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. pinna a feather + gradi to
walk, move.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Pinnipedia.

PINNIGRADE
Pin"ni*grade, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal of the seal tribe, moving by short feet that serve as
paddles.

PINNIPED
Pin"ni*ped, n. Etym: [L. pinna feather, fin + pes, pedis, a foot: cf.
F. pinnipède.] (Zoöl.)
(a) One of the Pinnipedia; a seal.
(b) One of the Pinnipedes.

PINNIPEDES
Pin*nip"e*des, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Steganopodes.

PINNIPEDIA
Pin`ni*pe"di*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. So called because their webbed feet
are used as paddles or fins.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of aquatic carnivorous mammals including the seals
and walruses; -- opposed to Fissipedia.

PINNOCK
Pin"nock, n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The hedge sparrow. [Prov. Eng.]
(b) The tomtit.

PINNOTHERE
Pin"no*there, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A crab of the genus pinnotheres. See Oyster crab, under Oyster.

PINNULA
Pin"nu*la, n.; pl. Pinnulæ. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Same as Pinnule.

PINNULATE
Pin"nu*late, a. Etym: [See Pinnule.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having each pinna subdivided; -- said of a leaf, or of its
pinnæ.

PINNULATED
Pin"nu*la`ted, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having pinnules.

PINNULE
Pin"nule, n. Etym: [L. pinnula, dim. of pinna feather: cf. F.
pinnule.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the small divisions of a decompound frond or leaf. See
Illust. of Bipinnate leaf, under Bipinnate.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of a series of small, slender organs, or parts, when
arranged in rows so as to have a plumelike appearance; as, a pinnule
of a gorgonia; the pinnules of a crinoid.

PINNYWINKLES
Pin"ny*win`kles, n. pl.

Defn: An instrument of torture, consisting of a board with holes into
which the fingers were pressed, and fastened with pegs. [Written also
pilliewinkles.] [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

PINOCLE
Pin"o*cle, n.

Defn: See Penuchle.

PINOLE
Pi*nole", n.

1. An aromatic powder used in Italy in the manufacture of chocolate.

2. Parched maize, ground, and mixed with sugar, etc. Mixed with
water, it makes a nutritious beverage.

PINON; PINYON
Piñ"on, n. Etym: [Sp. piñon.] (Bot.)
(a) The edible seed of several species of pine; also, the tree
producing such seeds, as Pinus Pinea of Southern Europe, and P.
Parryana, cembroides, edulis, and monophylla, the nut pines of
Western North America.
(b) See Monkey's puzzle. [Written also pignon.]

PINPATCH
Pin"patch`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common English periwinkle. [Prov. Eng.]

PINT
Pint, n. Etym: [OE. pinte, F. pinte, fr. Sp. pinta spot, mark, pint,
fr. pintar to paint; a mark for a pint prob. having been made on or
in a larger measure. See Paint.]

Defn: A measure of capacity, equal to half a quart, or four gills, --
used in liquid and dry measures. See Quart.

PINT
Pint, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The laughing gull. [Prov. Eng.]

PINTADO
Pin*ta"do, n.; pl. Pintados. Etym: [Sp., painted, fr. pintar to
paint.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Numida. Several species are found in
Africa. The common pintado, or Guinea fowl, the helmeted, and the
crested pintados, are the best known. See Guinea fowl, under Guinea.

PINTAIL
Pin"tail`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A northern duck (Dafila acuta), native of both continents. The
adult male has a long, tapering tail. Called also gray duck,
piketail, piket-tail, spike-tail, split-tail, springtail, sea
pheasant, and gray widgeon.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sharp-tailed grouse of the great plains and Rocky Mountains
(Pediocætes phasianellus); -- called also pintailed grouse, pintailed
chicken, springtail, and sharptail.

PIN-TAILED
Pin"-tailed`, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a tapered tail, with the middle feathers longest; --
said of birds.

PINTLE
Pin"tle, n. Etym: [A diminutive of Pin.]

1. A little pin.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: An upright pivot pin; as:
(a) The pivot pin of a hinge.
(b) A hook or pin on which a rudder hangs and turns.
(c) A pivot about which the chassis swings, in some kinds of gun
carriages.
(d) A kingbolt of a wagon.

PINTO
Pin"to, a. [Sp., painted.]

Defn: Lit., painted; hence, piebald; mottled; pied.

PINTO
Pin"to, n.

Defn: Any pied animal; esp., a pied or "painted" horse.

PINTOS
Pin"tos, n. pl.; sing. Pinto (. Etym: [Sp., painted, mottled.]
(Eyhnol.)

Defn: A mountain tribe of Mexican Indians living near Acapulco. They
are remarkable for having the dark skin of the face irregularly
spotted with white. Called also speckled Indians.

PINTSCH GAS
Pintsch gas. [After Richard Pintsch, German inventor.]

Defn: A kind of oil gas extensively used for lighting railroad cars,
which carry it in compressed form.

PINULE
Pin"ule, n. Etym: [Cf. Pinnule.] (Astron.)

Defn: One of the sights of an astrolabe. [Obs.]

PINUS
Pi"nus, n. Etym: [L., a pine tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large genus of evergreen coniferous trees, mostly found in
the northern hemisphere. The genus formerly included the firs,
spruces, larches, and hemlocks, but is now limited to those trees
which have the primary leaves of the branchlets reduced to mere
scales, and the secondary ones (pine needles) acicular, and usually
in fascicles of two to seven. See Pine.

PINWEED
Pin"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Lechea, low North American herbs with
branching stems, and very small and abundant leaves and flowers.

PINWORM
Pin"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small nematoid worm (Oxyurus vermicularis), which is
parasitic chiefly in the rectum of man. It is most common in children
and aged persons.

PINXIT
Pinx"it. Etym: [L., perfect indicative 3d sing. of pingere to paint.]

Defn: A word appended to the artist's name or initials on a painting,
or engraved copy of a painting; as, Rubens pinxit, Rubens painted
(this).

PINXTER
Pinx"ter, n.

Defn: See Pinkster.

PINY
Pin"y, a.

Defn: Abounding with pines. [Written also piney.] "The piny wood."
Longfellow.

PION
Piñ"on, n. [Sp. piñon.] (Bot.)
 (a) The edible seed of several species of pine; also, the tree
producing such seeds, as Pinus Pinea of Southern Europe, and P.
Parryana, cembroides, edulis, and monophylla, the nut pines of
Western North America.
 (b) See Monkey's puzzle. [Written also pignon.]

PIONED
Pi"o*ned, a.

Defn: A Shakespearean word of disputed meaning; perh., "abounding in
marsh marigolds."
Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims. Shak.

PIONEER
Pi`o*neer", n. Etym: [F. pionier, orig., a foot soldier, OF. peonier,
fr. OF. peon a foot soldier, F. pion. See Pawn in chess.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A soldier detailed or employed to form roads, dig trenches, and
make bridges, as an army advances.

2. One who goes before, as into the wilderness, preparing the way for
others to follow; as, pioneers of civilization; pioneers of reform.

PIONEER
Pi`o*neer", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Pioneered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Pioneering.]

Defn: To go before, and prepare or open a way for; to act as pioneer.

PIONEERS' DAY
Pi`o*neers'" Day.

Defn: In Utah, a legal holiday, July 24, commemorated the arrival, in
1847, of Brigham Young and his followers at the present site of Salt
Lake City.

PIONER
Pi`o*ner", n.

Defn: A pioneer. [Obs.] Shak.

PIONY
Pi"o*ny, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Peony.

PIOT
Pi"ot, n. Etym: [See Piet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The magpie. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Holland.

PIOUS
Pi"ous, a. Etym: [L. pius: cf. F. pieux.]

1. Of or pertaining to piety; exhibiting piety; reverential; dutiful;
religious; devout; godly. "Pious hearts." Milton. "Pious poetry."
Johnson.
Where was the martial brother's pious care Pope.

2. Practiced under the pretext of religion; prompted by mistaken
piety; as, pious errors; pious frauds.

Syn.
 -- Godly; devout; religious; righteous.

PIOUSLY
Pi"ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a pious manner.

PIP
Pip, n. Etym: [OE. pippe, D. pip, or F. pépie; from LL. pipita, fr.
L. pituita slime, phlegm, rheum, in fowls, the pip. Cf. Pituite.]

Defn: A contagious disease of fowls, characterized by hoarseness,
discharge from the nostrils and eyes, and an accumulation of mucus in
the mouth, forming a "scale" on the tongue. By some the term pip is
restricted to this last symptom, the disease being called roup by
them.

PIP
Pip, n. Etym: [Formerly pippin, pepin. Cf. Pippin.] (Bot.)

Defn: A seed, as of an apple or orange.

PIP
Pip, n. Etym: [Perh. for pick, F. pique a spade at cards, a pike. Cf.
Pique.]

Defn: One of the conventional figures or "spots" on playing cards,
dominoes, etc. Addison.

PIP
Pip, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Pipping.] Etym: [See
Peep.]

Defn: To cry or chirp, as a chicken; to peep.
To hear the chick pip and cry in the egg. Boyle.

PIPA
Pi*pa, n.; pl. Pipas (. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Surinam toad (Pipa Americana), noted for its peculiar
breeding habits.

Note: The male places the eggs on the back of the female, where they
soon become inclosed in capsules formed by the thickening of the
skin. The incubation of the eggs takes place in the capsules, and the
young, when hatched, come forth with well developed legs.

PIPAGE
Pip"age, n.

Defn: Transportation, as of petroleum oil, by means of a pipe
conduit; also, the charge for such transportation.

PIPAL TREE
Pi"pal tree`.

Defn: Same as Peepul tree.

PIPE
Pipe, n. Etym: [AS. pipe, probably fr. L. pipare, pipire, to chirp;
of imitative origin. Cf. Peep, Pibroch, Fife.]

1. A wind instrument of music, consisting of a tube or tubes of
straw, reed, wood, or metal; any tube which produces musical sounds;
as, a shepherd's pipe; the pipe of an organ. "Tunable as sylvan
pipe." Milton.
Now had he rather hear the tabor and the pipe. Shak.

2. Any long tube or hollow body of wood, metal, earthenware, or the
like: especially, one used as a conductor of water, steam, gas, etc.

3. A small bowl with a hollow steam, -- used in smoking tobacco, and,
sometimes, other substances.

4. A passageway for the air in speaking and breathing; the windpipe,
or one of its divisions.

5. The key or sound of the voice. [R.] Shak.

6. The peeping whistle, call, or note of a bird.
The earliest pipe of half-awakened birds. Tennyson.

7. pl.

Defn: The bagpipe; as, the pipes of Lucknow.

8. (Mining)

Defn: An elongated body or vein of ore.

9. A roll formerly used in the English exchequer, otherwise called
the Great Roll, on which were taken down the accounts of debts to the
king; -- so called because put together like a pipe. Mozley & W.

10. (Naut.)

Defn: A boatswain's whistle, used to call the crew to their duties;
also, the sound of it.

11. Etym: [Cf. F. pipe, fr. pipe a wind instrument, a tube, fr. L.
pipare to chirp. See Etymol. above.]

Defn: A cask usually containing two hogsheads, or 126 wine gallons;
also, the quantity which it contains. Pipe fitter, one who fits pipes
together, or applies pipes, as to an engine or a building.
 -- Pipe fitting, a piece, as a coupling, an elbow, a valve, etc.,
used for connecting lengths of pipe or as accessory to a pipe.
 -- Pipe office, an ancient office in the Court of Exchequer, in
which the clerk of the pipe made out leases of crown lands, accounts
of cheriffs, etc. [Eng.] -- Pipe tree (Bot.), the lilac and the mock
orange; -- so called because their were formerly used to make pipe
stems; -- called also pipe privet.
 -- Pipe wrench, or Pipetongs, a jawed tool for gripping a pipe, in
turning or holding it.
 -- To smoke the pipe of peace, to smoke from the same pipe in token
of amity or preparatory to making a treaty of peace, -- a custom of
the American Indians.

PIPE
Pipe, v. i.

1. To play on a pipe, fife, flute, or other tubular wind instrument
of music.
We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced. Matt. xi. 17.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To call, convey orders, etc., by means of signals on a pipe or
whistle carried by a boatswain.

3. To emit or have a shrill sound like that of a pipe; to whistle.
"Oft in the piping shrouds." Wordsworth.

4. (Metal.)

Defn: To become hollow in the process of solodifying; -- said of an
ingot, as of steel.

PIPE
Pipe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Piped; p. pr. & vb. n. Piping.]

1. To perform, as a tune, by playing on a pipe, flute, fife, etc.; to
utter in the shrill tone of a pipe.
A robin . . . was piping a few querulous notes. W. Irving.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To call or direct, as a crew, by the boatswain's whistle.
As fine a ship's company as was ever piped aloft. Marryat.

3. To furnish or equip with pipes; as, to pipe an engine, or a
building.

PIPE CLAY
Pipe" clay` (

Defn: A plastic, unctuous clay of a grayish white color, -- used in
making tobacco pipes and various kinds of earthenware, in scouring
cloth, and in cleansing soldiers' equipments.

PIPECLAY
Pipe"clay`, v. t.

1. To whiten or clean with pipe clay, as a soldier's accouterments.

2. To clear off; as, to pipeclay accounts. [Slang, Eng.]

PIPED
Piped, a.

Defn: Formed with a pipe; having pipe or pipes; tubular.

PIPEFISH
Pipe"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any lophobranch fish of the genus Siphostoma, or Syngnathus,
and allied genera, having a long and very slender angular body,
covered with bony plates. The mouth is small, at the end of a long,
tubular snout. The male has a pouch on his belly, in which the
incubation of the eggs takes place.

PIPELAYER; PIPE LAYER
Pipe"lay`er, n., or Pipe" lay`er.

1. One who lays conducting pipes in the ground, as for water, gas,
etc.

2. (Polit. Cant)

Defn: A politician who works in secret; -- in this sense, usually
written as one word. [U.S.]

PIPELAYING; PIPE LAYING
Pipe"lay`ing, n., or Pipe" lay`ing.

1. The laying of conducting pipes underground, as for water, gas,
etc.

2. (Polit. Cant)

Defn: The act or method of making combinations for personal advantage
secretly or slyly; -- in this sense, usually written as one word.
[U.S.]

PIPE LINE
Pipe line.

Defn: A line of pipe with pumping machinery and apparatus for
conveying liquids, esp. petroleum, between distant points.

PIPE-LINE
Pipe"-line`, v. t.

Defn: To convey by a pipe line; to furnish with a pipe line or pipe
lines.

PIPEMOUTH
Pipe"mouth`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any fish of the genus Fistularia; -- called also tobacco
pipefish. See Fistularia.

PIPER
Pi"per, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: See Pepper.

PIPER
Pip"er, n.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: One who plays on a pipe, or the like, esp. on a bagpipe. "The
hereditary piper and his sons." Macaulay.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A common European gurnard (Trigla lyra), having a large head,
with prominent nasal projection, and with large, sharp, opercular
spines.
(b) A sea urchin (Goniocidaris hystrix) having very long spines,
native of both the American and European coasts. To pay the piper, to
bear the cost, expense, or trouble.

PIPERACEOUS
Pip`er*a"ceous, a. Etym: [L. piper pepper.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the order of plants (Piperaceæ) of which
the pepper (Piper nigrum) is the type. There are about a dozen genera
and a thousand species, mostly tropical plants with pungent and
aromatic qualities.

PIPERAZINE; PIPERAZIN
Pi*per"a*zine, n. Also -zin . [Piperidine + azote + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline substance, (C2H4NH)2, formed by action of ammonia
on ethylene bromide, by reduction of pyrazine, etc. It is a strong
base, and is used as a remedy for gout.

PIPERIC
Pi*per"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, or designating, a complex
organic acid found in the products of different members of the Pepper
family, and extracted as a yellowish crystalline substance.

PIPERIDGE
Pip"er*idge, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Pepperidge.

PIPERIDINE
Pi*per"i*dine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An oily liquid alkaloid, C5H11N, having a hot, peppery,
ammoniacal odor. It is related to pyridine, and is obtained by the
decomposition of piperine.

PIPERINE
Pip"er*ine, n. Etym: [L. piper pepper: cf. F. piperin, piperine.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline compound of piperidine and piperic acid. It
is obtained from the black pepper (Piper nigrum) and other species.

PIPERONAL
Pip`er*o"nal, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance obtained by oxidation of piperic
acid, and regarded as a complex aldehyde.

PIPERYLENE
Pi*per"y*lene, n. Etym: [Piperidine + acetylene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon obtained by decomposition of certain piperidine
derivatives.

PIPESTEM
Pipe"stem`, n.

Defn: The hollow stem or tube of a pipe used for smoking tobacco,
etc.
Took a long reed for a pipestem. Longfellow.

PIPESTONE
Pipe"stone`, n.

Defn: A kind of clay slate, carved by the Indians into tobacco pipes.
Cf. Catlinite.

PIPETTE
Pi*pette", n. Etym: [F., dim. of pipe.]

Defn: A small glass tube, often with an enlargement or bulb in the
middle, and usually graduated, -- used for transferring or delivering
measured quantities.

PIPEVINE
Pipe"vine`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The Dutchman's pipe. See under Dutchman.

PIPEWOOD
Pipe"wood`, n.

Defn: An ericaceous shrub (Leucothoë acuminata) of the southern
United States, from the wood of which pipe bowls are made.

PIPEWORT
Pipe"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of a genus (Eriocaulon) of aquatic or marsh herbs
with soft grass-like leaves.

PIPING
Pip"ing, a. Etym: [From Pipe, v.]

1. Playing on a musical pipe. "Lowing herds and piping swains."
Swift.

2. Peaceful; favorable to, or characterized by, the music of the pipe
rather than of the drum and fife. Shak.

3. Emitting a high, shrill sound.

4. Simmering; boiling; sizzling; hissing; -- from the sound of
boiling fluids. Piping crow, Piping crow shrike, Piping roller
(Zoöl.), any Australian bird of the genus Gymnorhina, esp. G.
tibicen, which is black and white, and the size of a small crow.
Called also caruck.
 -- Piping frog (Zoöl.), a small American tree frog (Hyla
Pickeringii) which utters a high, shrill note in early spring.
 -- Piping hot, boiling hot; hissing hot; very hot. [Colloq.] Milton.

PIPING
Pip"ing, n.

1. A small cord covered with cloth, -- used as trimming for women's
dresses.

2. Pipes, collectively; as, the piping of a house.

3. The act of playing on a pipe; the shrill noted of birds, etc.

4. A piece cut off to be set or planted; a cutting; also, propagation
by cuttings.

PIPISTREL; PIPISTRELLE
Pi*pis"trel, Pip`i*strelle", n. Etym: [F. pipistrelle, It.
pipistrello.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European bat (Vesperugo pipistrellus); -- called also
flittermouse.

PIPIT
Pip"it, n. Etym: [So named from its call note.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to
Anthus and allied genera, of the family Motacillidæ. They strongly
resemble the true larks in habits, colors, and the great length of
the hind claw. They are, therefore, often called titlarks, and pipit
larks.

Note: The meadow pipit (Anthus pratensis); the tree pipit, or tree
lark (A. trivialis); and the rock pipit, or sea lark (A. obscurus)
are well-known European species. The common American pipit, or brown
lark, is Anthus Pensilvanicus. The Western species (A. Spraguei) is
called the American skylark, on account of its musical powers.

PIPKIN
Pip"kin, n.Etym: [Dim. of Pipe.]

Defn: A small earthen boiler.

PIPPIN
Pip"pin, n. Etym: [Probably fr. OE. pippin a seed, as being raised
from the seed. See Pip a seed.] (Bot.)
(a) An apple from a tree raised from the seed and not grafted; a
seedling apple.
(b) A name given to apples of several different kinds, as Newtown
pippin, summer pippin, fall pippin, golden pippin.
We will eat a last year's pippin. Shak.
Normandy pippins, sun-dried apples for winter use.

PIPPUL TREE
Pip"pul tree`.

Defn: Same as Peepul tree.

PIPRA
Pi"pra, n.; pl. Pipras. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small clamatorial birds
belonging to Pipra and allied genera, of the family Pipridæ. The male
is usually glossy black, varied with scarlet, yellow, or sky blue.
They chiefly inhabit South America.

PIPRINE
Pi"prine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the pipras, or the family Pipridæ.

PIPSISSEWA
Pip*sis"se*wa, n. Etym: [From American Indian.] (Bot.)

Defn: A low evergreen plant (Chimaphila umbellata), with narrow,
wedge-lanceolate leaves, and an umbel of pretty nodding fragrant
blossoms. It has been used in nephritic diseases. Called also
prince's pine.

PIPY
Pip"y, a.

Defn: Like a pipe; hollow-stemmed. Keats.

PIQUANCY
Pi"quan*cy, n. Etym: [See Piquant.]

Defn: The quality or state of being piquant.

PIQUANT
Pi"quant, a. Etym: [F., p.pr. of piquer to prick or sting. See Pike.]

Defn: Stimulating to the taste; giving zest; tart; sharp; pungent;
as, a piquant anecdote. "As piquant to the tongue as salt." Addison.
"Piquant railleries." Gov. of Tongue.

PIQUANTLY
Pi"quant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a piquant manner.

PIQUE
Pi`qué", n. Etym: [F., p.p. of piquer to prick.]

Defn: A cotton fabric, figured in the loom, -- used as a dress goods
for women and children, and for vestings, etc.

PIQUE
Pique, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The jigger. See Jigger.

PIQUE
Pique, n. Etym: [F., fr. piquer. See Pike.]

1. A feeling of hurt, vexation, or resentment, awakened by a social
slight or injury; irritation of the feelings, as through wounded
pride; stinging vexation.
Men take up piques and displeasures. Dr. H. More.
Wars had arisen . . . upon a personal pique. De Quincey.

2. Keenly felt desire; a longing.
Though it have the pique, and long, 'Tis still for something in the
wrong. Hudibras.

3. (Card Playing)

Defn: In piquet, the right of the elder hand to count thirty in hand,
or to play before the adversary counts one.

Syn.
 -- Displeasure; irritation; grudge; spite. Pique, Spite, Grudge.
Pique denotes a quick and often transient sense of resentment for
some supposed neglect or injury, but it is not marked by malevolence.
Spite is a stronger term, denoting settled ill will or malice, with a
desire to injure, as the result of extreme irritation. Grudge goes
still further, denoting cherished and secret enmity, with an
unforgiving spirit. A pique is usually of recent date; a grudge is
that which has long subsisted; spite implies a disposition to cross
or vex others.

PIQUE
Pique, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Piqued; p. pr. & vb. n. Piquing.] Etym:
[F. piquer. See Pike.]

1. To wound the pride of; to sting; to nettle; to irritate; to fret;
to offend; to excite to anger.
Pique her, and soothe in turn. Byron.

2. To excite to action by causing resentment or jealousy; to
stimulate; to prick; as, to pique ambition, or curiosity. Prior.

3. To pride or value; -- used reflexively.
Men . . . pique themselves upon their skill. Locke.

Syn.
 -- To offend; displease; irritate; provoke; fret; nettle; sting;
goad; stimulate.

PIQUE
Pique, v. i.

Defn: To cause annoyance or irritation. "Every piques." Tatler.

PIQUEER
Pi*queer", v. i.

Defn: See Pickeer. [R.]

PIQUEERER
Pi*queer"er, n.

Defn: See Pickeerer. [R.]

PIQUET
Piqu"et, n.

Defn: See Picket. [R.]

PIQUET
Pi*quet", n. Etym: [F., prob. fr. pique. See Pique, Pike, and
Picket.]

Defn: A game at cards played between two persons, with thirty-two
cards, all the deuces, threes, fours, fives, and sixes, being set
aside. [Written also picket and picquet.]

PIRACY
Pi"ra*cy, n.; pl. Piracies. Etym: [Cf. LL. piratia, Gr. Pirate.]

1. The act or crime of a pirate.

2. (Common Law)

Defn: Robbery on the high seas; the taking of property from others on
the open sea by open violence; without lawful authority, and with
intent to steal; -- a crime answering to robbery on land.

Note: By statute law several other offenses committed on the seas (as
trading with known pirates, or engaging in the slave trade) have been
made piracy.

3. "Sometimes used, in a quasi-figurative sense, of violation of
copyright; but for this, infringement is the correct and preferable
term." Abbott.

PIRAGUA
Pi*ra"gua, n.

Defn: See Pirogue.

PIRAI
Pi*rai", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Piraya.

PIRAMETER
Pi*ram"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: A dynamometer for ascertaining the power required to draw
carriages over roads.

PIRARUCU
Pi`ra*ru"cu, n. Etym: [From the native South American name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Arapaima.

PIRATE
Pi"rate, n. Etym: [L. pirata, Gr. peril: cf. F. pirate. See Peril.]

1. A robber on the high seas; one who by open violence takes the
property of another on the high seas; especially, one who makes it
his business to cruise for robbery or plunder; a freebooter on the
seas; also, one who steals in a harbor.

2. An armed ship or vessel which sails without a legal commission,
for the purpose of plundering other vessels on the high seas.

3. One who infringes the law of copyright, or publishes the work of
an author without permission. Pirate perch (Zoöl.), a fresh-water
percoid fish of the United States (Aphredoderus Sayanus). It is of a
dark olive color, speckled with blackish spots.

PIRATE
Pi"rate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pirated; p. pr. & vb. n. Pirating.]
Etym: [Cf. F. pirater.]

Defn: To play the pirate; to practice robbery on the high seas.

PIRATE
Pi"rate, v. t.

Defn: To publish, as books or writings, without the permission of the
author.
They advertised they would pirate his edition. Pope.

PIRATIC
Pi*rat"ic, a.

Defn: Piratical.

PIRATICAL
Pi*rat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. piraticus, Gr. piratique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a pirate; acquired by, or practicing,
piracy; as, a piratical undertaking. "Piratical printers." Pope.
 -- Pi*rat"ic*al*ly, adv.

PIRAYA
Pi*ra"ya, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large voracious fresh-water fish (Serrasalmo piraya) of South
America, having lancet-shaped teeth.

PIRIE
Pir"ie, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Pirry.

PIRIE
Pir"ie, n. Etym: [See Pear.] (Bot.)

Defn: A pear tree. [Written also pery, pyrie.] [Obs.] Chaucer.

PIRIRIGUA
Pi`ri*ri"gua, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American bird (Guira guira) allied to the cuckoos.

PIRL
Pirl, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Purl.]

1. To spin, as a top.

2. To twist or twine, as hair in making fishing lines.

PIRN
Pirn, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A quill or reed on which thread or yarn is wound; a bobbin;
also, the wound yarn on a weaver's shuttle; also, the reel of a
fishing rod. [Scot.]

PIROGUE
Pi*rogue", n. Etym: [Originally an American Indian word: cf. F.
pirogue, Sp. piroga, piragua.]

Defn: A dugout canoe; by extension, any small boat. [Written
variously periauger, perogue, piragua, periagua, etc.]

PIROUETTE
Pir`ou*ette", n. Etym: [F.; of uncertain origin.]

1. A whirling or turning on the toes in dancing.

2. (Man.)

Defn: The whirling about of a horse.

PIROUETTE
Pir`ou*ette", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pirouetted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Pirouetting.] Etym: [F. pirouetter.]

Defn: To perform a pirouette; to whirl, like a dancer.

PIRRY; PIRRIE
Pir"ry, Pir"rie, n. Etym: [Cf. Scot. pirr a gentle breeze, Icel. byrr
a prosperous wind, bylr a blast of wind.]

Defn: A rough gale of wind. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

PISASPHALTUM
Pis`as*phal"tum, n.

Defn: See Pissasphalt.

PISAY
Pi"say, n. (Arch.)

Defn: See Pisé.

PISCARY
Pis"ca*ry, n. Etym: [L. piscarius relating to fishes or to fishing,
fr. piscis a fish.] (Law)

Defn: The right or privilege of fishing in another man's waters.
Blackstone.

PISCATION
Pis*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. piscatio, fr. piscari to fish.]

Defn: Fishing; fishery. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

PISCATOR
Pis*ca"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A fisherman; an angler.

PISCATORIAL; PISCATORY
Pis`ca*to"ri*al, Pis"ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. piscatorius, fr. piscator
a fisherman, fr. piscari to fish, fr. piscis a fish. See Fish the
animal.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to fishes or fishing. Addison.

PISCES
Pis"ces, n. pl. Etym: [L. piscis a fish.]

1. (Astron.)
(a) The twelfth sign of the zodiac, marked pisces in almanacs.
(b) A zodiacal constellation, including the first point of Aries,
which is the vernal equinoctial point; the Fish.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The class of Vertebrata that includes the fishes. The principal
divisions are Elasmobranchii, Ganoidei, and Teleostei.

PISCICAPTURE
Pis"ci*cap`ture, n.

Defn: Capture of fishes, as by angling. [R.] W. H. Russell.

PISCICULTURAL
Pis`ci*cul"tur*al, a.

Defn: Relating to pisciculture.

PISCICULTURE
Pis`ci*cul"ture, n. Etym: [L. piscis a fish + E. culture.]

Defn: Fish culture. See under Fish.

PISCICULTURIST
Pis`ci*cul"tur*ist, n.

Defn: One who breeds fish.

PISCIFORM
Pis"ci*form, a. Etym: [L. piscis fish + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a fish; resembling a fish.

PISCINA
Pis*ci"na, n. Etym: [L., a certain, fishpond, fr. piscis a fish.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A niche near the altar in a church, containing a small basin
for rinsing altar vessels.

PISCINAL
Pis"ci*nal, a. Etym: [L. piscinalis: cf. F. piscinal.]

Defn: Belonging to a fishpond or a piscina.

PISCINE
Pis"cine, a. Etym: [L. piscis a fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a fish or fishes; as, piscine remains.

PISCIVOROUS
Pis*civ"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. piscis a fish + vorare to devour: cf. F.
piscivore.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding or subsisting on fish.

PISE
Pi`sé", n. Etym: [F. pisé, from piser to stamp, pound, L. pisare.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A species of wall made of stiff earth or clay rammed in between
molds which are carried up as the wall rises; -- called also pisé
work. Gwilt.

PISH
Pish, interj.

Defn: An exclamation of contempt.

PISH
Pish, v. i.

Defn: To express contempt. Pope.

PISHU
Pi"shu, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Canada lynx. [Written also peeshoo.]

PISIFORM
Pi"si*form, a. Etym: [L. pisum a pea + -form: cf. F. pisiforme.]

Defn: Resembling a pea or peas in size and shape; as, a pisiform iron
ore.

PISIFORM
Pi"si*form, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A small bone on the ulnar side of the carpus in man and many
mammals. See Illust. of Artiodactyla.

PISMIRE
Pis"mire, n. Etym: [Piss + mire; so called because it discharges a
moisture vulgarly considered urine. See Mire an ant.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An ant, or emmet.

PISOLITE
Pi"so*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. pisolithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of calcite, or calcium carbonate, consisting of
aggregated globular concretions about the size of a pea; -- called
also peastone, peagrit.

Note: Oölite is similar in structure, but the concretions are as
small as the roe of a fish.

PISOLITIC
Pi`so*lit"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. pisolithique.] (Min.)

Defn: Composed of, containing, or resembling, pisolite.

PISOPHALT
Pis"o*phalt, n. Etym: [For pissasphalt.] (Min.)

Defn: Pissasphalt. [Obs.]

PISS
Piss, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. pissen, F. pisser; akin to It. pisciare,
D. & G. pissen, Dan. pisse, Icel. pissa.]

Defn: To discharge urine, to urinate. Shak.

PISS
Piss, n.

Defn: Urine.

PISSABED
Piss"a*bed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name locally applied to various wild plants, as dandelion,
bluet, oxeye daisy, etc.

PISSASPHALT
Pis"sas*phalt, n. Etym: [L. pissasphaltus, Gr. pissasphalte.] (Min.)

Defn: Earth pitch; a soft, black bitumen of the consistence of tar,
and of a strong smell. It is inflammable, and intermediate between
petroleum and asphalt. [Written also pisasphaltum, pisasphalt, etc.]

PIST
Pist, n.

Defn: (man.) See Piste.

PISTACHE
Pis*tache", n. [OE. pistace, fr. F. pistache. See Pistachio.] (Bot.)

Defn: The anacardiaceous tree Pistacia vera, which yields the
pistachio nut; also, the nut itself and the flavoring extract
prepared from it.

PISTACHIO
Pis*ta"chio, n. Etym: [It. pistacchio (cf. Sp. pistacho, F.
pistache), fr. L. pistacium, Gr. pistah. Cf. Fistinut.] (Bot.)

Defn: The nut of the Pistacia vera, a tree of the order Anacardiaceæ,
containing a kernel of a pale greenish color, which has a pleasant
taste, resembling that of the almond, and yields an oil of agreeable
taste and odor; -- called also pistachio nut. It is wholesome and
nutritive. The tree grows in Arabia, Persia, Syria, and Sicily.
[Written also pistachia.]

PISTACHIO GREEN
Pistachio green.

Defn: A light yellowish green color resembling that of the pistachio
nut.

PISTACIA
Pis*ta"ci*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Pistachio.] (Bot.)

Defn: The name of a genus of trees, including the tree which bears
the pistachio, the Mediterranean mastic tree (Pistacia Lentiscus),
and the species (P. Terebinthus) which yields Chian or Cyprus
turpentine.

PISTACITE
Pis"ta*cite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pistacite. So called from its green
color. See Pistachio.] (Min.)

Defn: Epidote.

PISTAREEN
Pis`ta*reen", n.

Defn: An old Spanish silver coin of the value of about twenty cents.

PISTAZITE
Pis"ta*zite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Same as Pistacite.

PISTE
Piste, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. pisere, pinsere, pistum, to pound.]
(Min.)

Defn: The track or tread a horseman makes upon the ground he goes
over. Johnson.

PISTEL; PISTIL
Pis"tel, Pis"til, n.

Defn: An epistle. [Obs.]

PISTIC
Pis"tic, a. Etym: [L. pisticus, Gr.

Defn: Pure; genuine. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

PISTIL
Pis"til, n. Etym: [L. pistillum, pistillus, a pestle: cf. F. pistil.
See Pestle.] (Bot.)

Defn: The seed-bearing organ of a flower. It consists of an ovary,
containing the ovules or rudimentary seeds, and a stigma, which is
commonly raised on an elongated portion called a style. When composed
of one carpel a pistil is simple; when composed of several, it is
compound. See Illust. of Flower, and Ovary.

PISTILLACEOUS
Pis`til*la"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing on, or having nature of, the pistil; of or pertaining
to a pistil. Barton.

PISTILLATE
Pis"til*late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a pistil or pistils; -- usually said of flowers having
pistils but no stamens.

PISTILLATION
Pis`til*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. pistillum a pestle.]

Defn: The act of pounding or breaking in a mortar; pestillation.
[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

PISTILLIDIUM
Pis`til*lid"i*um, n.; pl. Pistillida. Etym: [NL., fr. E. pistil.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Same as Archegonium.

PISTILLIFEROUS
Pis`til*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Pistil + -ferous: cf. F. pistillifère.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Pistillate.

PISTILLODY
Pis"til*lo*dy, n. Etym: [Pistil + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The metamorphosis of other organs into pistils.

PISTOL
Pis"tol, n. Etym: [F. pistole, pistolet, It. pistola; prob. from a
form Pistola, for Pistoja, a town in Italy where pistols were first
made. Cf. Pistole.]

Defn: The smallest firearm used, intended to be fired from one hand,
-- now of many patterns, and bearing a great variety of names. See
Illust. of Revolver. Pistol carbine, a firearm with a removable but-
piece, and thus capable of being used either as a pistol or a
carbine.
 -- Pistol pipe (Metal.), a pipe in which the blast for a furnace is
heated, resembling a pistol in form.
 -- Pistol shot. (a) The discharge of a pistol. (b) The distance to
which a pistol can propel a ball.

PISTOL
Pis"tol, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pistoled; p. pr. & vb. n. Pistoling.]
Etym: [Cf. F. pistoler.]

Defn: To shoot with a pistol. "To pistol a poacher." Sydney Smith.

PISTOLADE
Pis"to*lade`, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A pistol shot.

PISTOLE
Pis*tole", n. Etym: [F., probably a name given in jest in France to a
Spanish coin. Cf. Pistol.]

Defn: The name of certain gold coins of various values formerly
coined in some countries of Europe. In Spain it was equivalent to a
quarter doubloon, or about $3.90, and in Germany and Italy nearly the
same. There was an old Italian pistole worth about $5.40.

PISTOLEER
Pis`to*leer", n. Etym: [Cf. F. pistolier.]

Defn: One who uses a pistol. [R.] Carlyle.

PISTOLET
Pis"to*let`, n. Etym: [F., a dim. of pistole.]

Defn: A small pistol. Donne. Beau. & Fl.

PISTON
Pis"ton, n. Etym: [F. piston; cf. It. pistone piston, also pestone a
large pestle; all fr. L. pinsere, pistum, to pound, to stamp. See
Pestle, Pistil.] (Mach.)

Defn: A sliding piece which either is moved by, or moves against,
fluid pressure. It usually consists of a short cylinder fitting
within a cylindrical vessel along which it moves, back and forth. It
is used in steam engines to receive motion from the steam, and in
pumps to transmit motion to a fluid; also for other purposes. Piston
head (Steam Eng.), that part of a piston which is made fast to the
piston rod.
 -- Piston rod, a rod by which a piston is moved, or by which it
communicates motion.
 -- Piston valve (Steam Eng.), a slide valve, consisting of a piston,
or connected pistons, working in a cylindrical case which is provided
with ports that are traversed by the valve.

PISTON RING
Pis"ton ring. (Mach.)

Defn: A spring packing ring, or any of several such rings, for a
piston.

PIT
Pit, n. Etym: [OE. pit, put, AS. pytt a pit, hole, L. puteus a well,
pit.]

1. A large cavity or hole in the ground, either natural or
artificial; a cavity in the surface of a body; an indentation;
specifically:
(a) The shaft of a coal mine; a coal pit.
(b) A large hole in the ground from which material is dug or
quarried; as, a stone pit; a gravel pit; or in which material is made
by burning; as, a lime pit; a charcoal pit.
(c) A vat sunk in the ground; as, a tan pit.
Tumble me into some loathsome pit. Shak.

2. Any abyss; especially, the grave, or hades.
Back to the infernal pit I drag thee chained. Milton.
He keepth back his soul from the pit. Job xxxiii. 18.

3. A covered deep hole for entrapping wild beasts; a pitfall; hence,
a trap; a snare. Also used figuratively.
The anointed of the Lord was taken in their pits. Lam. iv. 20.

4. A depression or hollow in the surface of the human body; as:
(a) The hollow place under the shoulder or arm; the axilla, or
armpit.
(b) See Pit of the stomach (below).
(c) The indentation or mark left by a pustule, as in smallpox.

5. Formerly, that part of a theater, on the floor of the house, below
the level of the stage and behind the orchestra; now, in England,
commonly the part behind the stalls; in the United States, the
parquet; also, the occupants of such a part of a theater.

6. An inclosed area into which gamecocks, dogs, and other animals are
brought to fight, or where dogs are trained to kill rats. "As
fiercely as two gamecocks in the pit." Locke.

7. Etym: [Cf. D. pit, akin to E. pith.] (Bot.)
(a) The endocarp of a drupe, and its contained seed or seeds; a
stone; as, a peach pit; a cherry pit, etc.
(b) A depression or thin spot in the wall of a duct. Cold pit
(Hort.), an excavation in the earth, lined with masonry or boards,
and covered with glass, but not artificially heated, -- used in
winter for the storing and protection of half-hardly plants, and
sometimes in the spring as a forcing bed.
 -- Pit coal, coal dug from the earth; mineral coal.
 -- Pit frame, the framework over the shaft of a coal mine.
 -- Pit head, the surface of the ground at the mouth of a pit or
mine.
 -- Pit kiln, an oven for coking coal.
 -- Pit martin (Zoöl.), the bank swallow. [Prov. Eng.] -- Pit of the
stomach (Anat.), the depression on the middle line of the epigastric
region of the abdomen at the lower end of the sternum; the
infrasternal depression.
 -- Pit saw (Mech.), a saw worked by two men, one of whom stands on
the log and the other beneath it. The place of the latter is often in
a pit, whence the name.
 -- Pit viper (Zoöl.), any viperine snake having a deep pit on each
side of the snout. The rattlesnake and copperhead are examples.
 -- Working pit (Min.), a shaft in which the ore is hoisted and the
workmen carried; -- in distinction from a shaft used for the pumps.

PIT
Pit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Pitting.]

1. To place or put into a pit or hole.
They lived like beasts, and were pitted like beasts, tumbled into the
grave. T. Grander.

2. To mark with little hollows, as by various pustules; as, a face
pitted by smallpox.

3. To introduce as an antagonist; to set forward for or in a contest;
as, to pit one dog against another.

PITA
Pi"ta, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Bot.)
(a) A fiber obtained from the Agave Americana and other related
species, -- used for making cordage and paper. Called also pita
fiber, and pita thread.
(b) The plant which yields the fiber.

PITAHAYA
Pit`a*ha"ya, n. Etym: [Sp., prob. from the native name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A cactaceous shrub (Cereus Pitajaya) of tropical America, which
yields a delicious fruit.

PITAPAT
Pit"a*pat`, adv. Etym: [An onomatopoetic reduplication of pat a
light, quick blow.]

Defn: In a flutter; with palpitation or quick succession of beats.
Lowell. "The fox's heart went pitapat." L'Estrange.

PITAPAT
Pit"a*pat`, n.

Defn: A light, repeated sound; a pattering, as of the rain. "The
pitapat of a pretty foot." Dryden.

PITCH
Pitch, n. Etym: [OE. pich, AS. pic, L. pix; akin to Gr.

1. A thick, black, lustrous, and sticky substance obtained by boiling
down tar. It is used in calking the seams of ships; also in coating
rope, canvas, wood, ironwork, etc., to preserve them.
He that toucheth pitch shall be defiled therewith. Ecclus. xiii. 1.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: See Pitchstone. Amboyna pitch, the resin of Dammara australis.
See Kauri.
 -- Burgundy pitch. See under Burgundy.
 -- Canada pitch, the resinous exudation of the hemlock tree (Abies
Canadensis); hemlock gum.
 -- Jew's pitch, bitumen.
 -- Mineral pitch. See Bitumen and Asphalt.
 -- Pitch coal (Min.), bituminous coal.
 -- Pitch peat (Min.), a black homogeneous peat, with a waxy luster.
 -- Pitch pine (Bot.), any one of several species of pine, yielding
pitch, esp. the Pinus rigida of North America.

PITCH
Pitch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pitched; p. pr. & vb. n. Pitching.] Etym:
[See Pitch, n.]

1. To cover over or smear with pitch. Gen. vi. 14.

2. Fig.: To darken; to blacken; to obscure.
The welkin pitched with sullen could. Addison.

PITCH
Pitch, v. t. Etym: [OE. picchen; akin to E. pick, pike.]

1. To throw, generally with a definite aim or purpose; to cast; to
hurl; to toss; as, to pitch quoits; to pitch hay; to pitch a ball.

2. To thrust or plant in the ground, as stakes or poles; hence, to
fix firmly, as by means of poles; to establish; to arrange; as, to
pitch a tent; to pitch a camp.

3. To set, face, or pave with rubble or undressed stones, as an
embankment or a roadway. Knight.

4. To fix or set the tone of; as, to pitch a tune.

5. To set or fix, as a price or value. [Obs.] Shak. Pitched battle, a
general battle; a battle in which the hostile forces have fixed
positions; -- in distinction from a skirmish.
 -- To pitch into, to attack; to assault; to abuse. [Slang]

PITCH
Pitch, v. i.

1. To fix or place a tent or temporary habitation; to encamp. "Laban
with his brethren pitched in the Mount of Gilead." Gen. xxxi. 25.

2. To light; to settle; to come to rest from flight.
The tree whereon they [the bees] pitch. Mortimer.

3. To fix one's choise; -- with on or upon.
Pitch upon the best course of life, and custom will render it the
more easy. Tillotson.

4. To plunge or fall; esp., to fall forward; to decline or slope; as,
to pitch from a precipice; the vessel pitches in a heavy sea; the
field pitches toward the east. Pitch and pay, an old aphorism which
inculcates ready-money payment, or payment on delivery of goods.
Shak.

PITCH
Pitch, n.

1. A throw; a toss; a cast, as of something from the hand; as, a good
pitch in quoits. Pitch and toss, a game played by tossing up a coin,
and calling "Heads or tails;" hence: To play pitch and toss with
(anything), to be careless or trust to luck about it. "To play pitch
and toss with the property of the country." G. Eliot.
 -- Pitch farthing. See Chuck farthing, under 5th Chuck.

2. (Cricket)

Defn: That point of the ground on which the ball pitches or lights
when bowled.

3. A point or peak; the extreme point or degree of elevation or
depression; hence, a limit or bound.
Driven headlong from the pitch of heaven, down Into this deep.
Milton.
Enterprises of great pitch and moment. Shak.
To lowest pitch of abject fortune. Milton.
He lived when learning was at its highest pitch. Addison.
The exact pitch, or limits, where temperance ends. Sharp.

4. Height; stature. [Obs.] Hudibras.

5. A descent; a fall; a thrusting down.

6. The point where a declivity begins; hence, the declivity itself; a
descending slope; the degree or rate of descent or slope; slant; as,
a steep pitch in the road; the pitch of a roof.

7. (Mus.)

Defn: The relative acuteness or gravity of a tone, determined by the
number of vibrations which produce it; the place of any tone upon a
scale of high and low.

Note: Musical tones with reference to absolute pitch, are named after
the first seven letters of the alphabet; with reference to relative
pitch, in a series of tones called the scale, they are called one,
two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Eight is also one of a new
scale an octave higher, as one is eight of a scale an octave lower.

8. (Mining)

Defn: The limit of ground set to a miner who receives a share of the
ore taken out.

9. (Mech.)
(a) The distance from center to center of any two adjacent teeth of
gearing, measured on the pitch line; -- called also circular pitch.
(b) The length, measured along the axis, of a complete turn of the
thread of a screw, or of the helical lines of the blades of a screw
propeller.
(c) The distance between the centers of holes, as of rivet holes in
boiler plates. Concert pitch (Mus.), the standard of pitch used by
orchestras, as in concerts, etc.
 -- Diametral pitch (Gearing), the distance which bears the same
relation to the pitch proper, or circular pitch, that the diameter of
a circle bears to its circumference; it is sometimes described by the
number expressing the quotient obtained by dividing the number of
teeth in a wheel by the diameter of its pitch circle in inches; as, 4
pitch, 8 pitch, etc.
 -- Pitch chain, a chain, as one made of metallic plates, adapted for
working with a sprocket wheel.
 -- Pitch line, or Pitch circle (Gearing), an ideal line, in a
toothed gear or rack, bearing such a relation to a corresponding line
in another gear, with which the former works, that the two lines will
have a common velocity as in rolling contact; it usually cuts the
teeth at about the middle of their height, and, in a circular gear,
is a circle concentric with the axis of the gear; the line, or
circle, on which the pitch of teeth is measured.
 -- Pitch of a roof (Arch.), the inclination or slope of the sides
expressed by the height in parts of the span; as, one half pitch;
whole pitch; or by the height in parts of the half span, especially
among engineers; or by degrees, as a pitch of 30°, of 45°, etc.; or
by the rise and run, that is, the ratio of the height to the half
span; as, a pitch of six rise to ten run. Equilateral pitch is where
the two sloping sides with the span form an equilateral triangle.
 -- Pitch of a plane (Carp.), the slant of the cutting iron.
 -- Pitch pipe, a wind instrument used by choristers in regulating
the pitch of a tune.
 -- Pitch point (Gearing), the point of contact of the pitch lines of
two gears, or of a rack and pinion, which work together.

PITCH-BLACK
Pitch"-black`, a.

Defn: Black as pitch or tar.

PITCHBLENDE
Pitch"blende`, n. Etym: [1st pitch + blende.] (Min.)

Defn: A pitch-black mineral consisting chiefly of the oxide of
uranium; uraninite. See Uraninite.

PITCH-DARK
Pitch"-dark`, a.

Defn: Dark as a pitch; pitch-black.

PITCHER
Pitch"er, n.

1. One who pitches anything, as hay, quoits, a ball, etc.;
specifically (Baseball), the player who delivers the ball to the
batsman.

2. A sort of crowbar for digging. [Obs.] Mortimer.

PITCHER
Pitch"er, n. Etym: [OE. picher, OF. pichier, OHG. pehhar, pehhari;
prob. of the same origin as E. beaker. Cf. Beaker.]

1. A wide-mouthed, deep vessel for holding liquids, with a spout or
protruding lip and a handle; a water jug or jar with a large ear or
handle.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A tubular or cuplike appendage or expansion of the leaves of
certain plants. American pitcher plants, the species of Sarracenia.
See Sarracenia.
 -- Australian pitcher plant, the Cephalotus follicularis, a low
saxifragaceous herb having two kinds of radical leaves, some
oblanceolate and entire, others transformed into little ovoid
pitchers, longitudinally triple-winged and ciliated, the mouth
covered with a lid shaped like a cockleshell.
 -- California pitcher plant, the Darlingtonia California. See
Darlingtonia.
 -- Pitcher plant, any plant with the whole or a part of the leaves
transformed into pitchers or cuplike organs, especially the species
of Nepenthes. See Nepenthes.

PITCHERFUL
Pitch"er*ful, n.; pl. Pitcherfuls (.

Defn: The quantity a pitcher will hold.

PITCH-FACED
Pitch"-faced`, a. (Stone Cutting)

Defn: Having the arris defined by a line beyond which the rock is cut
away, so as to give nearly true edges; -- said of squared stones that
are otherwise quarry-faced.

PITCHFORK
Pitch"fork`, n.

Defn: A fork, or farming utensil, used in pitching hay, sheaves of
grain, or the like.

PITCHFORK
Pitch"fork`, v. t.

Defn: To pitch or throw with, or as with, a pitchfork.
He has been pitchforked into the footguards. G. A. Sala.

PITCHINESS
Pitch"i*ness, n. Etym: [From Pitchy.]

Defn: Blackness, as of pitch; darkness.

PITCHING
Pitch"ing, n.

1. The act of throwing or casting; a cast; a pitch; as, wild pitching
in baseball.

2. The rough paving of a street to a grade with blocks of stone.
Mayhew.

3. (Hydraul. Eng.)

Defn: A facing of stone laid upon a bank to prevent wear by tides or
currents. Pitching piece (Carp.), the horizontal timber supporting
the floor of a platform of a stairway, and against which the
stringpieces of the sloping parts are supported.

PITCH-ORE
Pitch"-ore`, n. (Min.)

Defn: Pitchblende.

PITCHSTONE
Pitch"stone`, n. (Geol.)

Defn: An igneous rock of semiglassy nature, having a luster like
pitch.

PITCHWORK
Pitch"work`, n.

Defn: The work of a coal miner who is paid by a share of his product.

PITCHY
Pitch"y, a. Etym: [From 1st Pitch.]

1. Partaking of the qualities of pitch; resembling pitch.

2. Smeared with pitch.

3. Black; pitch-dark; dismal. "Pitchy night." Shak.

PITEOUS
Pit"e*ous, a. Etym: [OE. pitous, OF. pitos, F. piteux. See Pity.]

1. Pious; devout. [Obs.]
The Lord can deliver piteous men from temptation. Wyclif.

2. Evincing pity, compassion, or sympathy; compassionate; tender.
"[She] piteous of his case." Pope.
She was so charitable and so pitous. Chaucer.

3. Fitted to excite pity or sympathy; wretched; miserable;
lamentable; sad; as, a piteous case. Spenser.
The most piteous tale of Lear. Shak.

4. Paltry; mean; pitiful. "Piteous amends." Milton.

Syn.
 -- Sorrowful; mournful; affecting; doleful; woeful; rueful; sad;
wretched; miserable; pitiable; pitiful; compassionate.
 -- Pit"e*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Pit"e*ous*ness, n.

PITFALL
Pit"fall`, n.

Defn: A pit deceitfully covered to entrap wild beasts or men; a trap
of any kind. Sir T. North.

PITFALLING
Pit"fall`ing, a.

Defn: Entrapping; insnaring. [R.] "Full of . . . contradiction and
pitfalling dispenses." Milton.

PITH
Pith, n. Etym: [AS. pi; akin to D. pit pith, kernel, LG. peddik. Cf.
Pit a kernel.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The soft spongy substance in the center of the stems of many
plants and trees, especially those of the dicotyledonous or exogenous
classes. It consists of cellular tissue.

2.
(a) (Zoöl.) The spongy interior substance of a feather.
(b) (Anat.) The spinal cord; the marrow.

3. Hence: The which contains the strength of life; the vital or
essential part; concentrated force; vigor; strength; importance; as,
the speech lacked pith.
Enterprises of great pith and moment. Shak.
Pith paper. Same as Rice paper, under Rice.

PITH
Pith, v. t. (Physiol.)

Defn: To destroy the central nervous system of (an animal, as a
frog), as by passing a stout wire or needle up and down the vertebral
canal.

PITHECANTHROPUS
Pith`e*can*thro"pus, n. [NL.; Gr.  ape +  man.]

1. A hypothetical genus of primates intermediate between man and the
anthropoid apes. Haeckel.

2.  A genus consisting of an primate (P. erectus) apparently
intermediate between man and the existing anthropoid apes, known from
bones of a single individual found in Java (hence called Java man) in
1891-92. These bones include a thigh bone of the human type, two
molar teeth intermediate between those of man and the anthropoids,
and the calvaria of the skull, indicating a brain capacity of about
900 cubic centimeters, and resembling in form that of the Neanderthal
man. Also [pl. -thropi],

Defn: an animal of this genus. --Pith`e*can"thrope (#), n. --
Pith`e*can"thro*poid (#), a.

PITHECI
Pi*the"ci, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of mammals including the apes and monkeys. Sometimes
used in the sense of Primates.

PITHECOID
Pith"e*coid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

1. Of or pertaining to the genus Pithecia, or subfamily Pithecinæ,
which includes the saki, ouakari, and other allied South American
monkeys.

2. Of or pertaining to the anthropoid apes in particular, or to the
higher apes of the Old World, collectively.

PITHFUL
Pith"ful, a.

Defn: Full of pith. [R.] W. Browne.

PITHILY
Pith"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a pithy manner.

PITHINESS
Pith"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being pithy.

PITHLESS
Pith"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of pith, or of strength; feeble. Dryden. "Pithless
argumentation." Glandstone.

PIT-HOLE
Pit"-hole`, n.

Defn: A pit; a pockmark.

PITHSOME
Pith"some, a.

Defn: Pithy; robust. [R.] "Pithsome health and vigor." R. D.
Blackmore.

PITHY
Pith"y, a. [Compar. Pithier; superl. Pithiest.]

1. Consisting wholly, or in part, of pith; abounding in pith; as, a
pithy stem; a pithy fruit.

2. Having nervous energy; forceful; cogent.
This pithy speech prevailed, and all agreed. Dryden.
In all these Goodman Fact was very short, but pithy. Addison.
Pithy gall (Zoöl.), a large, rough, furrowed, oblong gall, formed on
blackberry canes by a small gallfly (Diastrophus nebulosus).

PITIABLE
Pit"i*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. pitiable, F. pitoyable.]

Defn: Deserving pity; wworthy of, or exciting, compassion; miserable;
lamentable; piteous; as, pitiable persons; a pitiable condition;
pitiable wretchedness.

Syn.
 -- Sorrowful; woeful; sad. See Piteous.
 -- Pit"i*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Pit"i*a*bly, adv.

PITIER
Pit"i*er, n.

Defn: One who pities. Gauden.

PITIFUL
Pit"i*ful, a.

1. Full of pity; tender-hearted; compassionate; kind; merciful;
sympathetic.
The Lord is very pitiful, and of tender mercy. James v. 11.

2. Piteous; lamentable; eliciting compassion.
A thing, indeed, very pitiful and horrible. Spenser.

3. To be pitied for littleness or meanness; miserable; paltry;
contemptible; despicable.
That's villainous, and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that
uses it. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Despicable; mean; paltry. See Contemptible.
 -- Pit"i*ful*ly, adv.
 -- Pit"i*ful*ness, n.

PITILESS
Pit"i*less, a.

1. Destitute of pity; hard-hearted; merciless; as, a pitilessmaster;
pitiless elements.

2. Exciting no pity; as, a pitiless condition.
 -- Pit"i*less*ly, adv.
 -- Pit"i*less*ness, n.

PITMAN
Pit"man, n.; pl. Pitmen (.

1. One who works in a pit, as in mining, in sawing timber, etc.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: The connecting rod in a sawmill; also, sometimes, a connecting
rod in other machinery.

PITOT'S TUBE
Pi*tot's" tube`. (Hydraul.)

Defn: A bent tube used to determine the velocity of running water, by
placing the curved end under water, and observing the height to which
the fluid rises in the tube; a kind of current meter.

PITPAN
Pit"pan`, n.

Defn: A long, flat-bottomed canoe, used for the navigation of rivers
and lagoons in Central America. Squier.

PITPAT
Pit"pat`, n. & adv.

Defn: See Pitapat.

PITTA
Pit"ta, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of a large group of bright-colored clamatorial birds
belonging to Pitta, and allied genera of the family Pittidæ. Most of
the species are varied with three or more colors, such as blue,
green, crimson, yellow, purple, and black. They are called also
ground thrushes, and Old World ant thrushes; but they are not related
to the true thrushes.

Note: The pittas are most abundant in the East Indies, but some
inhabit Southern Asia, Africa, and Australia. They live mostly upon
the ground, and feed upon insects of various kinds.

PITTACAL
Pit"ta*cal, n. Etym: [Gr. pittacale.] (Chem.)

Defn: A dark blue substance obtained from wood tar. It consists of
hydrocarbons which when oxidized form the orange-yellow eupittonic
compounds, the salts of which are dark blue.

PITTANCE
Pit"tance, n. Etym: [OE. pitance, pitaunce, F. pitance; cf. It.
pietanza, LL. pitancia, pittantia, pictantia; perh. fr. L. pietas
pity, piety, or perhaps akin to E. petty. Cf. Petty, and Pity.]

1. An allowance of food bestowed in charity; a mess of victuals;
hence, a small charity gift; a dole. "A good pitaunce." Chaucer.
One half only of this pittance was ever given him in money. Macaulay.

2. A meager portion, quality, or allowance; an inconsiderable salary
or compensation. "The small pittance of learning they received."
Swift.
The inconsiderable pittance of faithful professors. Fuller.

PITTED
Pit"ted, a.

1. Marked with little pits, as in smallpox. See Pit, v. t., 2.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having minute thin spots; as, pitted ducts in the vascular
parts of vegetable tissue.

PITTER
Pit"ter, n.

Defn: A contrivance for removing the pits from peaches, plums, and
other stone fruit.

PITTER
Pit"ter, v. i.

Defn: To make a pattering sound; to murmur; as, pittering streams.
[Obs.] R. Greene.

PITTER-PATTER
Pit"ter-pat`ter, n.

Defn: A sound like that of alternating light beats. Also, a pattering
of words.

PITTER-PATTER
Pit"ter-pat`ter, adv.

Defn: With, or with the sound of, alternating light beats; as, his
heart went pitter-patter.

PITTLE-PATTLE
Pit"tle-pat`tle, v. i.

Defn: To talk unmeaningly; to chatter or prattle. [R.] Latimer.

PITUITARY
Pi*tu"i*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. pituita phlegm, pituite: cf. F.
pituitarie.] (Anat.)
(a) Secreting mucus or phlegm; as, the pituitary membrane, or the
mucous membrane which lines the nasal cavities.
(b) Of or pertaining to the pituitary body; as, the pituitary fossa.
Pituitary body or gland (Anat.), a glandlike body of unknown
function, situated in the pituitary fossa, and connected with the
infundibulum of the brain; the hypophysis.
 -- Pituitary fossa (Anat.), the ephippium.

PITUITE
Pit"u*ite, n. Etym: [L. pituita: cf. F. pituite. Cf. Pip a disease of
fowls.]

Defn: Mucus, phlegm.

PITUITOUS
Pi*tu"i*tous, a. Etym: [L. pituitosus: cf. F. pituiteux.]

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, pituite or mucus; full of mucus;
discharging mucus. Pituitous fever (Med.), typhoid fever; enteric
fever.

PITUITRIN
Pi*tu"i*trin, n. (Biol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance or extract from the pituitary body.

PITY
Pit"y, n.; pl. Pities. Etym: [OE. pite, OF. pité, pitié, F. pitié, L.
pietas piety, kindness, pity. See Pious, and cf. Piety.]

1. Piety. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. A feeling for the sufferings or distresses of another or others;
sympathy with the grief or misery of another; compassion; fellow-
feeling; commiseration.
He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the Lord. Prov. xix. 17.
He . . . has no more pity in him than a dog. Shak.

3. A reason or cause of pity, grief, or regret; a thing to be
regretted. "The more the pity." Shak.
What pity is it That we can die but once to serve our country!
Addison.

Note: In this sense, sometimes used in the plural, especially in the
colloquialism: "It is a thousand pities."

Syn.
 -- Compassion; mercy; commiseration; condolence; sympathy, fellow-
suffering; fellow-feeling.
 -- Pity, Sympathy, Compassion. Sympathy is literally fellow-feeling,
and therefore requiers a certain degree of equality in situation,
circumstances, etc., to its fullest exercise. Compassion is deep
tenderness for another under severe or inevitable misfortune. Pity
regards its object not only as suffering, but weak, and hence as
inferior.

PITY
Pit"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pitied; p. pr. & vb. n. Pitying.]

1. To feel pity or compassion for; to have sympathy with; to
compassionate; to commiserate; to have tender feelings toward (any
one), awakened by a knowledge of suffering.
Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that
fear him. Ps. ciii. 13.

2. To move to pity; -- used impersonally. [Obs.]
It pitieth them to see her in the dust. Bk. of Com. Prayer.

PITY
Pit"y, v. i.

Defn: To be compassionate; to show pity.
I will not pity, nor spare, nor have mercy. Jer. xiii. 14.

PITYING
Pit"y*ing, a.

Defn: Expressing pity; as, a pitying eye, glance, or word.
 -- Pit"y*ing*ly, adv.

PITYRIASIS
Pit`y*ri"a*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A superficial affection of the skin, characterized by irregular
patches of thin scales which are shed in branlike particles.
Pityriasis versicolor Etym: [NL.] (Med.), a parasitic disease of the
skin, characterized by the development of reddish or brownish
patches.

PITYROID
Pit"y*roid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Having the form of, or resembling, bran. Smart.

PIU
Pi"ù, adv. Etym: [It., fr. L. plus. See Plus.] (Mus.)

Defn: A little more; as, più allegro, a little more briskly.

PIVOT
Piv"ot, n. Etym: [F.; prob. akin to It. piva pipe, F. pipe. See
Pipe.]

1. A fixed pin or short axis, on the end of which a wheel or other
body turns.

2. The end of a shaft or arbor which rests and turns in a support;
as, the pivot of an arbor in a watch.

3. Hence, figuratively: A turning point or condition; that on which
important results depend; as, the pivot of an enterprise.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: The officer or soldier who simply turns in his place whike the
company or line moves around him in wheeling; -- called also pivot
man. Pivot bridge, a form of drawbridge in which one span, called the
pivot span, turns about a central vertical axis.
 -- Pivot gun, a gun mounted on a pivot or revolving carriage, so as
to turn in any direction.
 -- Pivot tooth (Dentistry), an artificial crown attached to the root
of a natural tooth by a pin or peg.

PIVOT
Piv"ot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pivoted; p. pr. & vb. n. Pivoting.]

Defn: To place on a pivot. Clarke.

PIVOTAL
Piv"ot*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a pivot or turning point; belonging to, or
constituting, a pivot; of the nature of a pivot; as, the
pivotalopportunity of a career; the pivotal position in a battle.

PIX
Pix, n. & v.

Defn: See Pyx.

PIXY; PIXIE
Pix"y, Pix"ie, n.; pl. Pixies. Etym: [For Pucksy, from Puck.]

1. An old English name for a fairy; an elf. [Written also picksy.]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A low creeping evergreen plant (Pyxidanthera barbulata), with
mosslike leaves and little white blossoms, found in New Jersey and
southward, where it flowers in earliest spring. Pixy ring, a fairy
ring or circle. [Prov. Eng.] -- Pixy stool (Bot.), a toadstool or
mushroom. [Prov. Eng.]

PIXY-LED
Pix"y-led`, a.

Defn: Led by pixies; bewildered.

PIZZICATO
Piz`zi*ca"to. Etym: [It., pinched.] (Mus.)

Defn: A direction to violinists to pluck the string with the finger,
instead of using the bow. (Abrev. pizz.)

PIZZLE
Piz"zle, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. G. pissel, pesel, peisel, peserich, D.
pees a tendon or spring.]

Defn: The penis; -- so called in some animals, as the bull. Shak.

PLACABILITY
Pla`ca*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. placabilitas: cf. F. placabilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being placable or appeasable; placable
disposition.

PLACABLE
Pla"ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. placabilis, fr. placare to quiet, pacify:
cf. F. placable. See Placate.]

Defn: Capable of being appeased or pacified; ready or willing to be
pacified; willing to forgive or condone.
Methought I saw him placable and mild. Milton.

PLACABLENESS
Pla"ca*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being placable.

PLACARD
Pla*card", n. Etym: [F., fr. plaquer to lay or clap on, plaque plate,
tablet; probably from Dutch, cf. D. plakken to paste, post up, plak a
flat piece of wood.]

1. A public proclamation; a manifesto or edict issued by authority.
[Obs.]
All placards or edicts are published in his name. Howell.

2. Permission given by authority; a license; as, to give a placard to
do something. [Obs.] ller.

3. A written or printed paper, as an advertisement or a declaration,
posted, or to be posted, in a public place; a poster.

4. (Anc. Armor)

Defn: An extra plate on the lower part of the breastplate or
backplate. Planché.

5. Etym: [Cf. Placket.]

Defn: A kind of stomacher, often adorned with jewels, worn in the
fifteenth century and later.

PLACARD
Pla*card", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Placarded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Placarding.]

1. To post placards upon or within; as, to placard a wall, to placard
the city.

2. To announce by placards; as, to placard a sale.

PLACATE
Plac"ate, n.

Defn: Same as Placard, 4 & 5.

PLACATE
Pla"cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Placated; p. pr. & vb. n. Placating.]
Etym: [L. placatus, p.p. of placare to placate, akin to placere to
please. See Please.]

Defn: To appease; to pacify; to concilate. "Therefore is he always
propitiated and placated." Cudworth.

PLACATION
Pla*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. placatio.]

Defn: The act of placating. [R.] Puttenham (1589).

PLACE
Place, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. platea a street, an area, a courtyard,
from Gr. platei^a a street, properly fem. of platy`s, flat, broad;
akin to Skr. prsthu, Lith. platus. Cf. Flawn, Piazza, Plate, Plaza.]

1. Any portion of space regarded as measured off or distinct from all
other space, or appropriated to some definite object or use;
position; ground; site; spot; rarely, unbounded space.
Here is the place appointed. Shak.
What place can be for us Within heaven's bound Milton.
The word place has sometimes a more confused sense, and stands for
that space which any body takes up; and so the universe is a place.
Locke.

2. A broad way in a city; an open space; an area; a court or short
part of a street open only at one end. "Hangman boys in the market
place." Shak.

3. A position which is occupied and held; a dwelling; a mansion; a
village, town, or city; a fortified town or post; a stronghold; a
region or country.
Are you native of this place Shak.

4. Rank; degree; grade; order of priority, advancement, dignity, or
importance; especially, social rank or position; condition; also,
official station; occupation; calling. "The enervating magic of
place." Hawthorne.
Men in great place are thrice servants. Bacon.
I know my place as I would they should do theirs. Shak.

5. Vacated or relinquished space; room; stead (the departure or
removal of another being or thing being implied). "In place of Lord
Bassanio." Shak.

6. A definite position or passage of a document.
The place of the scripture which he read was this. Acts viii. 32.

7. Ordinal relation; position in the order of proceeding; as, he said
in the first place.

8. Reception; effect; -- implying the making room for.
My word hath no place in you. John viii. 37.

9. (Astron.)

Defn: Position in the heavens, as of a heavenly body; -- usually
defined by its right ascension and declination, or by its latitude
and longitude. Place of arms (Mil.), a place calculated for the
rendezvous of men in arms, etc., as a fort which affords a safe
retreat for hospitals, magazines, etc. Wilhelm.
 -- High place (Script.), a mount on which sacrifices were offered.
"Him that offereth in the high place." Jer. xlviii. 35.
 -- In place, in proper position; timely.
 -- Out of place, inappropriate; ill-timed; as, his remarks were out
of place.
 -- Place kick (Football), the act of kicking the ball after it has
been placed on the ground.
 -- Place name, the name of a place or locality. London Academy.
 -- To give place, to make room; to yield; to give way; to give
advantage. "Neither give place to the devil." Eph. iv. 27. "Let all
the rest give place." Shak.
 -- To have place, to have a station, room, or seat; as, such desires
can have no place in a good heart.
 -- To take place. (a) To come to pass; to occur; as, the ceremony
will not take place. (b) To take precedence or priority. Addison. (c)
To take effect; to prevail. "If your doctrine takes place." Berkeley.
"But none of these excuses would take place." Spenser.
 -- To take the place of, to be substituted for.

Syn.
 -- Situation; seat; abode; position; locality; location; site; spot;
office; employment; charge; function; trust; ground; room; stead.

PLACE
Place, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Placed; p. pr. & vb. n. Placing.] Etym:
[Cf. F. placer. See Place, n.]

1. To assign a place to; to put in a particular spot or place, or in
a certain relative position; to direct to a particular place; to fix;
to settle; to locate; as, to place a book on a shelf; to place balls
in tennis.
Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown. Shak.

2. To put or set in a particular rank, office, or position; to
surround with particular circumstances or relations in life; to
appoint to certain station or condition of life; as, in whatever
sphere one is placed.
Place such over them to be rulers. Ex. xviii. 21.

3. To put out at interest; to invest; to loan; as, to place money in
a bank.

4. To set; to fix; to repose; as, to place confidence in a friend.
"My resolution 's placed." Shak.

5. To attribute; to ascribe; to set down.
Place it for her chief virtue. Shak.
To place (a person), to identify him. [Colloq. U.S.]

Syn.
 -- See Put.

PLACEBO
Pla*ce"bo, n. Etym: [L., I shall please, fut. of placere to please.]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The first antiphon of the vespers for the dead.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A prescription intended to humor or satisfy. To sing placebo,
to agree with one in his opinion; to be complaisant to. Chaucer.

PLACEFUL
Place"ful, a.

Defn: In the appointed place. [Obs.]

PLACE-KICK
Place"-kick`, v. t. & i.

Defn: To make a place kick; to make (a goal) by a place kick. --
Place"-kick`er, n.

PLACELESS
Place"less, a.

Defn: Having no place or office.

PLACEMAN
Place"man, n.; pl. Placemen (.

Defn: One who holds or occupies a place; one who has office under
government. Sir W. Scott.

PLACEMENT
Place"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. placement.]

1. The act of placing, or the state of being placed.

2. Position; place.

PLACENTA
Pla*cen"ta, n.; pl. L. Placentæ, E. Placentas. Etym: [L., a cake, Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The vascular appendage which connects the fetus with the
parent, and is cast off in parturition with the afterbirth.

Note: In most mammals the placenta is principally developed from the
allantois and chorion, and tufts of vascular villi on its surface
penetrate the blood vessels of the parental uterus, and thus
establish a nutritive and excretory connection between the blood of
the fetus and that of the parent, though the blood itself does not
flow from one to the other.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The part of a pistil or fruit to which the ovules or seeds are
attached.

PLACENTAL
Pla*cen"tal, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the placenta; having, or characterized by
having, a placenta; as, a placental mammal.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Placentalia.

PLACENTAL
Pla*cen"tal, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Placentalia.

PLACENTALIA
Plac`en*ta"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Mammalia including those that have a placenta, or
all the orders above the marsupials.

PLACENTARY
Pla*cen"ta*ry, a.

Defn: Having reference to the placenta; as, the placentary system of
classification.

PLACENTATION
Plac`en*ta"tion, n.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The mode of formation of the placenta in different animals; as,
the placentation of mammals.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The mode in which the placenta is arranged or composed; as,
axile placentation; parietal placentation.

PLACENTIFEROUS
Plac`en*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Placenta + -ferous.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Having or producing a placenta.

PLACENTIFORM
Pla*cen"ti*form, a. Etym: [Placenta + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the shape of a placenta, or circular thickened disk
somewhat thinner about the middle.

PLACENTIOUS
Pla*cen"tious, a. Etym: [See Please.]

Defn: Pleasing; amiable. [Obs.] "A placentious person." Fuller.

PLACE-PROUD
Place"-proud`, a.

Defn: Proud of rank or office. Beau. & Fl.

PLACER
Pla"cer, n.

Defn: One who places or sets. Spenser.

PLACER
Plac"er, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A deposit of earth, sand, or gravel, containing valuable
mineral in particles, especially by the side of a river, or in the
bed of a mountain torrent. [U.S.]

PLACET
Pla"cet, n. Etym: [L. placet it pleases.]

1. A vote of assent, as of the governing body of a university, of an
ecclesiastical council, etc.

2. The assent of the civil power to the promulgation of an
ecclesiastical ordinance. Shipley.
The king . . . annulled the royal placet. J. P. Peters.

PLACID
Plac"id, a. Etym: [L. placidus, originally, pleasing, mild, from
placere to please: cf. F. placide. See Please.]

Defn: Pleased; contented; unruffied; undisturbed; serene; peaceful;
tranquil; quiet; gentle. "That placid aspect and meek regard."
Milton. "Sleeping . . . the placid sleep of infancy." Macaulay.

PLACIDITY
Pla*cid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. placiditas: cf. F. placidité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being placid; calmness; serenity.
Hawthorne.

PLACIDLY
Plac"id*ly, adv.

Defn: In a placid manner.

PLACIDNESS
Plac"id*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being placid.

PLACIT
Plac"it, n. Etym: [L. placitum. See Plea.]

Defn: A decree or determination; a dictum. [Obs.] "The placits and
opinions of other philosophers." Evelyn.

PLACITORY
Plac"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [See Placit.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to pleas or pleading, in courts of law. [Obs.]
Clayton.

PLACITUM
Plac"i*tum, n.; pl. Placita. Etym: [LL. See Placit.]

1. A public court or assembly in the Middle Ages, over which the
sovereign president when a consultation was held upon affairs of
state. Brande & C.

2. (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: A court, or cause in court.

3. (Law)

Defn: A plea; a pleading; a judicial proceeding; a suit. Burrill.

PLACK
Plack, n. Etym: [F. plaque a plate of metal. Cf. Plaque.]

Defn: A small copper coin formerly current in Scotland, worth less
than a cent.
With not a plack in the pocket of the poet. Prof. Wilson.

PLACKET
Plack"et, n. Etym: [F. plaquer to lay or clap on. See Placard.]

1. A petticoat, esp. an under petticoat; hence, a cant term for a
woman. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

2. The opening or slit left in a petticoat or skirt for convenience
in putting it on; -- called also placket hole.

3. A woman's pocket.

PLACODERM
Plac"o*derm, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: One of the Placodermi.

PLACODERMAL
Plac`o*der"mal, a. (Paleon.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the placoderms; like the placoderms.

PLACODERMATA
Plac`o*der"ma*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Paleon.)

Defn: Same as Placodermi.

PLACODERMI
Plac`o*der"mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct group of fishes, supposed to be ganoids. The body
and head were covered with large bony plates. See Illust. under
Pterichthys, and Coccosteus.

PLACOGANOID
Plac`o*ga"noid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Placoganoidei.

PLACOGANOIDEI
Plac`o*ga*noi"de*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ganoidei. See
Ganoidei.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of ganoid fishes including those that have large
external bony plates and a cartilaginous skeleton.

PLACOID
Plac"oid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Platelike; having irregular, platelike, bony scales, often
bearing spines; pertaining to the placoids.

PLACOID
Plac"oid, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any fish having placoid scales, as the sharks.
(b) One of the Placoides.

PLACOIDES
Pla*coi"des, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of fishes including the sharks and rays; the
Elasmobranchii; -- called also Placoidei.

PLACOIDIAN
Pla*coid"i*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the placoids.

PLACOPHORA
Pla*coph"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of gastropod Mollusca, including the chitons. The
back is covered by eight shelly plates. Called also Polyplacophora.
See Illust. under Chiton, and Isopleura.

PLAGA
Pla"ga, n.; pl. Plagæ. Etym: [L. plaga a blow, a welt, a stripe.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A stripe of color.

PLAGAL
Pla"gal, a. Etym: [F., from Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: Having a scale running from the dominant to its octave; -- said
of certain old church modes or tunes, as opposed to those called
authentic, which ran from the tonic to its octave. Plagal cadence, a
cadence in which the final chord on the tonic is preceded by the
chord on the subdominant.

PLAGATE
Pla"gate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having plagæ, or irregular enlongated color spots.

PLAGE
Plage, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. plaga.]

Defn: A region; country. [Obs.] "The plages of the north." Chaucer.

PLAGIARISM
Pla"gia*rism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. plagiarisme.]

1. The act or practice of plagiarizing.

2. That which plagiarized.

PLAGIARIST
Pla"gia*rist, n.

Defn: One who plagiarizes; or purloins the words, writings, or ideas
of another, and passes them off as his own; a literary thief; a
plagiary.

PLAGIARIZE
Pla"gia*rize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Plagiarized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Plagiarizing.]

Defn: To steal or purloin from the writings of another; to
appropriate without due acknowledgement (the ideas or expressions of
another).

PLAGIARY
Pla"gia*ry, v. i.

Defn: To commit plagiarism.

PLAGIARY
Pla"gia*ry, n.; pl. Plagiaries. Etym: [L. plagiarius a kidnaper, a
literary thief, fr. plagium kidnaping; cf. plaga a net, perh. akin to
E. plait: cf. F. plagiaire.]

1. A manstealer; a kidnaper. [Obs.]

2. One who purloins another's expressions or ideas, and offers them
as his own; a plagiarist. Dryden.

3. Plagiarism; literary thief. Milton.

PLAGIARY
Pla"gia*ry, a.

1. Kidnaping. [Obs.] E. Browne.

2. Practicing plagiarism. Bp. Hall.

PLAGIHEDRAL
Pla`gi*he"dral, a. Etym: [Gr. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Having an oblique spiral arrangement of planes, as levogyrate
and dextrogyrate crystals.

PLAGIOCEPHALIC
Pla`gi*o*ce*phal"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having an oblique lateral deformity of the skull.

PLAGIOCEPHALY
Pla`gi*o*ceph"a*ly, n. (Anat.)

Defn: Oblique lateral deformity of the skull.

PLAGIOCLASE
Pla"gi*o*clase, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A general term used of any triclinic feldspar. See the Note
under Feldspar.

PLAGIONITE
Pla"gi*o*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A sulphide of lead and antimony, of a blackish lead-gray color
and metallic luster.

PLAGIOSTOMATOUS
Pla`gi*o*stom"a*tous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Plagiostomous.