

POUNCE
Pounce, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pounded; p. pr. & vb. n. Pouncing.]

Defn: To sprinkle or rub with pounce; as, to pounce paper, or a
pattern.

POUNCE
Pounce, n. Etym: [Prob. through French, from an assumed LL. punctiare
to prick, L. pungere, punctum. See Puncheon, Punch, v. t.]

1. The claw or talon of a bird of prey. Spenser. Burke.

2. A punch or stamp. [Obs.] "A pounce to print money with." Withals.

3. Cloth worked in eyelet holes. [Obs.] Homilies.

POUNCE
Pounce, v. t.

1. To strike or seize with the talons; to pierce, as with the talons.
[Archaic]
Stooped from his highest pitch to pounce a wren. Cowper.
Now pounce him lightly, And as he roars and rages, let's go deeper.
J. Fletcher.

2. To punch; to perforate; to stamp holes in, or dots on, by way of
ornament. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

POUNCE
Pounce, v. i.

Defn: To fall suddenly and seize with the claws; -- with on or upon;
as, a hawk pounces upon a chicken. Also used figuratively.
Derision is never so agonizing as when it pounces on the wanderings
of misguided sensibility. Jeffrey.

POUNCED
Pounced, a.

1. Furnished with claws or talons; as, the pounced young of the
eagle. Thomson.

2. Ornamented with perforations or dots. [Obs.] "Gilt bowls pounced
and pierced." Holinshed.

POUNCET BOX
Poun"cet box`. Etym: [Cf. F. poncette, fr. ponce pounce. See Pounce a
powder.]

Defn: A box with a perforated lid, for sprinkling pounce, or for
holding perfumes. Shak.

POUNCING
Poun"cing, n.

1. The art or practice of transferring a design by means of pounce.

2. Decorative perforation of cloth. [Obs.]

POUND
Pound, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pounded; p. pr. & vb. n. Pounding.] Etym:
[OE. pounen, AS. punian to bruise. Cf. Pun a play on words.]

1. To strike repeatedly with some heavy instrument; to beat.
With cruel blows she pounds her blubbered cheeks. Dryden.

2. To comminute and pulverize by beating; to bruise or break into
fine particles with a pestle or other heavy instrument; as, to pound
spice or salt.

POUND
Pound, v. i.

1. To strike heavy blows; to beat.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: To make a jarring noise, as in running; as, the engine pounds.

POUND
Pound, n. Etym: [AS. pund an inclosure: cf. forpyndan to turn away,
or to repress, also Icel. pynda to extort, torment, Ir. pont, pond,
pound. Cf. Pinder, Pinfold, Pin to inclose, Pond.]

1. An inclosure, maintained by public authority, in which cattle or
other animals are confined when taken in trespassing, or when going
at large in violation of law; a pinfold. Shak.

2. A level stretch in a canal between locks.

3. (Fishing)

Defn: A kind of net, having a large inclosure with a narrow entrance
into which fish are directed by wings spreading outward. Pound
covert, a pound that is close or covered over, as a shed.
 -- Pound overt, a pound that is open overhead.

POUND
Pound, v. t.

Defn: To confine in, or as in, a pound; to impound. Milton.

POUND
Pound, n; pl. Pounds, collectively Pound pr Pounds. Etym: [AS. pund,
fr. L. pondo, akin to pondus a weight, pendere top weigh. See
Pendant.]

1. A certain specified weight; especially, a legal standard
consisting of an established number of ounces.

Note: The pound in general use in the United States and in England is
the pound avoirdupois, which is divided into sixteen ounces, and
contains 7,000 grains. The pound troy is divided into twelve ounces,
and contains 5,760 grains. 144 pounds avoirdupois are equal to 175
pounds troy weight. See Avoirdupois, and Troy.

2. A British denomination of money of account, equivalent to twenty
shillings sterling, and equal in value to about $4.86. There is no
coin known by this name, but the gold sovereign is of the same value.

Note: The pound sterling was in Saxon times, about A. D. 671, a pound
troy of silver, and a shilling was its twentieth part; consequently
the latter was three times as large as it is at present. Peacham.

POUNDAGE
Pound"age, n.

1. A sum deducted from a pound, or a certain sum paid for each pound;
a commission.

2. A subsidy of twelve pence in the pound, formerly granted to the
crown on all goods exported or imported, and if by aliens, more.
[Eng.] Blackstone.

3. (Law)

Defn: The sum allowed to a sheriff or other officer upon the amount
realized by an execution; -- estimated in England, and formerly in
the United States, at so much of the pound. Burrill. Bouvier.

POUNDAGE
Pound"age, v. t.

Defn: To collect, as poundage; to assess, or rate, by poundage. [R.]

POUNDAGE
Pound"age, n. Etym: [See 3d Pound.]

1. Confinement of cattle, or other animals, in a public pound.

2. A charge paid for the release of impounded cattle.

POUNDAL
Pound"al, n. Etym: [From 5th Pound.] (Physics & Mech.)

Defn: A unit of force based upon the pound, foot, and second, being
the force which, acting on a pound avoirdupois for one second, causes
it to acquire by the of that time a velocity of one foot per second.
It is about equal to the weight of half an ounce, and is 13,825
dynes.

POUND-BREACH
Pound"-breach`, n.

Defn: The breaking of a public pound for releasing impounded animals.
Blackstone.

POUNDCAKE
Pound"cake`, n.

Defn: A kind of rich, sweet cake; -- so called from the ingredients
being used by pounds, or in equal quantities.

POUNDER
Pound"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, pounds, as a stamp in an ore mill.

2. An instrument used for pounding; a pestle.

3. A person or thing, so called with reference to a certain number of
pounds in value, weight, capacity, etc.; as, a cannon carrying a
twelve-pound ball is called a twelve pounder.

Note: Before the English reform act of 1867, one who was an elector
by virtue of paying ten pounds rent was called a ten pounder.

POUNDING
Pound"ing, n.

1. The act of beating, bruising, or breaking up; a beating.

2. A pounded or pulverized substance. [R.] "Covered with the
poundings of these rocks." J. S. Blackie.

POUNDKEEPER; POUND-KEEPER
Pound"keep`er, n.

Defn: The keeper of a pound.

POUNDRATE
Pound"*rate`, n.

Defn: A rate or proportion estimated at a certain amount for each
pound; poundage.

POUP
Poup, v. i.

Defn: See Powp. [Obs.] Chaucer.

POUPART'S LIGAMENT
Pou*part's" lig"a*ment. (Anat.)

Defn: A ligament, of fascia, extending, in most mammals, from the
ventral side of the ilium to near the symphysis of the pubic bones.

POUPETON
Pou"pe*ton, n. Etym: [See Puppet.]

Defn: A puppet, or little baby. [Obs.] Palsgrave.

POUR
Pour, a.

Defn: Poor. [Obs.] Chaucer.

POUR
Pour, v. i.

Defn: To pore. [Obs.] Chaucer.

POUR
Pour, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Poured; p. pr. & vb. n. Pouring.] Etym:
[OE. pouren, of uncertain origin; cf. W. bwrw to cast, throw, shed,
bwrw gwlaw to rain.]

1. To cause to flow in a stream, as a liquid or anything flowing like
a liquid, either out of a vessel or into it; as, to pour water from a
pail; to pour wine into a decanter; to pour oil upon the waters; to
pour out sand or dust.

2. To send forth as in a stream or a flood; to emit; to let escape
freely or wholly.
I . . . have poured out my soul before the Lord. 1 Sam. i. 15.
Now will I shortly pour out my fury upon thee. Ezek. vii. 8.
London doth pour out her citizens ! Shak.
Wherefore did Nature pour her bounties forth With such a full and
unwithdrawing hand Milton.

3. To send forth from, as in a stream; to discharge uninterruptedly.
Is it for thee the linnet pours his throat Pope.

POUR
Pour, v. i.

Defn: To flow, pass, or issue in a stream, or as a stream; to fall
continuously and abundantly; as, the rain pours; the people poured
out of the theater.
In the rude throng pour on with furious pace. Gay.

POUR
Pour, n.

Defn: A stream, or something like a stream; a flood. [Colloq.] "A
pour of rain." Miss Ferrier.

POURELICHE
Poure"liche`, adv.

Defn: Poorly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

POURER
Pour"er, n.

Defn: One who pours.

POURLIEU
Pour"lieu, n.

Defn: See Purlieu.

POURPARLER
Pour`par`ler", n. Etym: [F.] (Diplomacy)

Defn: A consultation preliminary to a treaty.

POURPARTY
Pour`par"ty, n.; pl. Pourparties. Etym: [See Purparty.] (Law)

Defn: A division; a divided share. To make pourparty, to divide and
apportion lands previously held in common.

POURPOINT
Pour"point, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A quilted military doublet or gambeson worn in the 14th and
15th centuries; also, a name for the doublet of the 16th and 17th
centuries worn by civilians.

POURPRESTURE
Pour*pres"ture, n. (Law)

Defn: See Purpresture.

POURSUIVANT
Pour"sui*vant, n.

Defn: See Pursuivant.

POURTRAY
Pour*tray", v. t.

Defn: See Portray.

POURVEYANCE
Pour*vey"ance, n.

Defn: See Purveyance.

POUSSE
Pousse, n.

Defn: Pulse; pease. [Obs.] Spenser.

POUSSE-CAFE
Pousse"-ca`fé", n. [F., fr. pousser to push + café coffee.]

Defn: A drink served after coffee at dinner, usually one of several
liqueurs, or cordials, of different specific gravities poured so as
to remain separate in layers; hence, such a drink of cordials served
at any time.

POUSSETTE
Pous*sette", n. Etym: [F., pushpin, fr. pousser to push. See Push.]

Defn: A movement, or part of a figure, in the contradance. Dickens.

POUSSETTE
Pous*sette", v. i.

Defn: To perform a certain movement in a dance. [R.] Tennyson.
Down the middle, up again, poussette, and cross. J. & H. Smith.

POU STO
Pou sto (poo sto; pou sto). [Gr. poy^ stw^ where I may stand; -- from
the reputed saying of Archimedes, "Give me where I may stand and I
will move the whole world with my steelyard."]

Defn: A place to stand upon; a locus standi; hence, a foundation or
basis for operations.

POUT
Pout, n. Etym: [F. poulet. See Poult.]

Defn: The young of some birds, as grouse; a young fowl. Carew.

POUT
Pout, v. i.

Defn: To shoot pouts. [Scot.]

POUT
Pout, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pouted; p. pr. & vb. n. Pouting.] Etym:
[OE. pouten, of uncertain origin; cf. Prov. pot lip, Prov. F. potte,
faire la potte to pout, W. pwdu to pout, be sullen, poten, potten, a
paunch, belly.]

1. To thrust out the lips, as in sullenness or displeasure; hence, to
look sullen.
Thou poutest upon thy fortune and thy love. Shak.

2
2

Defn: To protrude. "Pouting lips." Dryden.

POUT
Pout, n.

Defn: A sullen protrusion of the lips; a fit of sullenness. "Jack's
in the pouts." J. & H. Smith.

POUT
Pout, n. Etym: [Cf. Eelpout.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European whiting pout or bib. Eel pout. (Zoöl.) See
Eelpout.
 -- Horn pout, or Horned pout. (Zoöl.) See Bullhead (b).

POUTER
Pout"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, pouts.

2. Etym: [Cf. E. pout, and G. puter turkey.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A variety of the domestic pigeon remarkable for the extent to
which it is able to dilate its throat and breast.

POUTING
Pout"ing, n.

Defn: Childish sullenness.

POUTINGLY
Pout"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a pouting, or a sullen, manner.

POVERT
Pov"ert, n.

Defn: Poverty. [Obs.] Chaucer.

POVERTY
Pov"er*ty, n. Etym: [OE. poverte, OF. poverté, F. pauvreté, fr. L.
paupertas, fr. pauper poor. See Poor.]

1. The quality or state of being poor or indigent; want or scarcity
of means of subsistence; indigence; need. "Swathed in numblest
poverty." Keble.
The drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty. Prov. xxiii. 21.

2. Any deficiency of elements or resources that are needed or
desired, or that constitute richness; as, poverty of soil; poverty of
the blood; poverty of ideas. Poverty grass (Bot.), a name given to
several slender grasses (as Aristida dichotoma, and Danthonia
spicata) which often spring up on old and worn-out fields.

Syn.
 -- Indigence; penury; beggary; need; lack; want; scantiness;
sparingness; meagerness; jejuneness. Poverty, Indigence, Pauperism.
Poverty is a relative term; what is poverty to a monarch, would be
competence for a day laborer. Indigence implies extreme distress, and
almost absolute destitution. Pauperism denotes entire dependence upon
public charity, and, therefore, often a hopeless and degraded state.

POWAN; POWEN
Pow"an, Pow"en, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small British lake whitefish (Coregonus clupeoides, or C.
ferus); -- called also gwyniad and lake herring.

POWDER
Pow"der, n. Etym: [OE. poudre, pouldre, F. poudre, OF. also poldre,
puldre, L. pulvis, pulveris: cf. pollen fine flour, mill dust, E.
pollen. Cf. Polverine, Pulverize.]

1. The fine particles to which any dry substance is reduced by
pounding, grinding, or triturating, or into which it falls by decay;
dust.
Grind their bones to powder small. Shak.

2. An explosive mixture used in gunnery, blasting, etc.; gunpowder.
See Gunpowder. Atlas powder, Baking powder, etc. See under Atlas,
Baking, etc.
 -- Powder down (Zoöl.), the peculiar dust, or exfoliation, of
powder-down feathers.
 -- Powder-down feather (Zoöl.), one of a peculiar kind of modified
feathers which sometimes form patches on certain parts of some birds.
They have a greasy texture and a scaly exfoliation.
 -- Powder-down patch (Zoöl.), a tuft or patch of powder-down
feathers.
 -- Powder hose, a tube of strong linen, about an inch in diameter,
filled with powder and used in firing mines. Farrow.
 -- Powder hoy (Naut.), a vessel specially fitted to carry powder for
the supply of war ships. They are usually painted red and carry a red
flag.
 -- Powder magazine, or Powder room. See Magazine, 2.
 -- Powder mine, a mine exploded by gunpowder. See Mine.
 -- Powder monkey (Naut.), a boy formerly employed on war vessels to
carry powder; a powder boy.
 -- Powder post. See Dry rot, under Dry.
 -- Powder puff. See Puff, n.

POWDER
Pow"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Powdered; p. pr. & vb. n. Powdering.]
Etym: [F. poudrer.]

1. To reduce to fine particles; to pound, grind, or rub into a
powder; to comminute; to pulverize; to triturate.

2. To sprinkle with powder, or as with powder; to be sprinkle; as, to
powder the hair.
A circling zone thou seest Powdered with stars. Milton.

3. To sprinkle with salt; to corn, as meat. [Obs.]

POWDER
Pow"der, v. i.

1. To be reduced to powder; to become like powder; as, some salts
powder easily.

2. To use powder on the hair or skin; as, she paints and powders.

POWDERED
Pow"dered, a.

1. Reduced to a powder; sprinkled with, or as with, powder.

2. Sprinkled with salt; salted; corned. [Obs.]
Powdered beef, pickled meats. Harvey.

3. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Semé. Walpole.

POWDERFLASK
Pow"der*flask`, n.

Defn: A flask in which gunpowder is carried, having a charging tube
at the end.

POWDERHORN
Pow"der*horn`, n.

Defn: A horn in which gunpowder is carried.

POWDERING
Pow"der*ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Powder, v. t. Powdering tub. (a) A tub or vessel
in which meat is corned or salted. (b) A heated tub in which an
infected lecher was placed for cure. [Obs.] Shak.

POWDERMILL
Pow"der*mill`, n.

Defn: A mill in which gunpowder is made.

POWDER-POSTED
Pow"der-post`ed, a.

Defn: Affected with dry rot; reduced to dust by rot. See Dry rot,
under Dry. [U.S.]

POWDERY
Pow"der*y, a.

1. Easily crumbling to pieces; friable; loose; as, a powdery spar.

2. Sprinkled or covered with powder; dusty; as, the powdery bloom on
plums.

3. Resembling powder; consisting of powder. "The powdery snow."
Wordsworth.

POWDIKE
Pow"dike, n. Etym: [Scot. pow, pou, a pool, a watery or marshy place,
fr. E. pool.]

Defn: A dike a marsh or fen. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

POWDRY
Pow"dry, a.

Defn: See Powdery.

POWER
Pow"er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Poor, the fish.

POWER
Pow"er, n. Etym: [OE. pouer, poer, OF. poeir, pooir, F. pouvoir, n. &
v., fr. LL. potere, for L. posse, potesse, to be able, to have power.
See Possible, Potent, and cf. Posse comitatus.]

1. Ability to act, regarded as latent or inherent; the faculty of
doing or performing something; capacity for action or performance;
capability of producing an effect, whether physical or moral:
potency; might; as, a man of great power; the power of capillary
attraction; money gives power. "One next himself in power, and next
in crime." Milton.

2. Ability, regarded as put forth or exerted; strength, force, or
energy in action; as, the power of steam in moving an engine; the
power of truth, or of argument, in producing conviction; the power of
enthusiasm. "The power of fancy." Shak.

3. Capacity of undergoing or suffering; fitness to be acted upon;
susceptibility; -- called also passive power; as, great power of
endurance.
Power, then, is active and passive; faculty is active power or
capacity; capacity is passive power. Sir W. Hamilton.

4. The exercise of a faculty; the employment of strength; the
exercise of any kind of control; influence; dominion; sway; command;
government.
Power is no blessing in itself but when it is employed to protect the
innocent. Swift.

5. The agent exercising an ability to act; an individual invested
with authority; an institution, or government, which exercises
control; as, the great powers of Europe; hence, often, a superhuman
agent; a spirit; a divinity. "The powers of darkness." Milton.
And the powers of the heavens shall be shaken. Matt. xxiv. 29.

6. A military or naval force; an army or navy; a great host. Spenser.
Never such a power . . . Was levied in the body of a land. Shak.

7. A large quantity; a great number; as, a power o. [Colloq.]
Richardson.

8. (Mech.)
(a) The rate at which mechanical energy is exerted or mechanical work
performed, as by an engine or other machine, or an animal, working
continuously; as, an engine of twenty horse power.

Note: The English unit of power used most commonly is the horse
power. See Horse power.
(b) A mechanical agent; that from which useful mechanical energy is
derived; as, water power; steam power; hand power, etc.
(c) Applied force; force producing motion or pressure; as, the power
applied at one and of a lever to lift a weight at the other end.

Note: This use in mechanics, of power as a synonym for force, is
improper and is becoming obsolete.
(d) A machine acted upon by an animal, and serving as a motor to
drive other machinery; as, a dog power.

Note: Power is used adjectively, denoting, driven, or adapted to be
driven, by machinery, and not actuated directly by the hand or foot;
as, a power lathe; a power loom; a power press.

9. (Math.)

Defn: The product arising from the multiplication of a number into
itself; as, a square is the second power, and a cube is third power,
of a number.

10. ( (Metaph.)

Defn: Mental or moral ability to act; one of the faculties which are
possessed by the mind or soul; as, the power of thinking, reasoning,
judging, willing, fearing, hoping, etc. I. Watts.
The guiltiness of my mind, the sudden surprise of my powers, drove
the grossness . . . into a received belief. Shak.

11. (Optics)

Defn: The degree to which a lens, mirror, or any optical instrument,
magnifies; in the telescope, and usually in the microscope, the
number of times it multiplies, or augments, the apparent diameter of
an object; sometimes, in microscopes, the number of times it
multiplies the apparent surface.

12. (Law)

Defn: An authority enabling a person to dispose of an interest vested
either in himself or in another person; ownership by appointment.
Wharton.

13. Hence, vested authority to act in a given case; as, the business
was referred to a committee with power.

Note: Power may be predicated of inanimate agents, like the winds and
waves, electricity and magnetism, gravitation, etc., or of animal and
intelligent beings; and when predicated of these beings, it may
indicate physical, mental, or moral ability or capacity. Mechanical
powers. See under Mechanical.
 -- Power loom, or Power press. See Def. 8 (d), note.
 -- Power of attorney. See under Attorney.
 -- Power of a point (relative to a given curve) (Geom.), the result
of substituting the coördinates of any point in that expression which
being put equal to zero forms the equation of the curve; as, x2 + y2
- 100 is the power of the point x, y, relative to the circle x2 + y2
- 100 = 0.

POWERABLE
Pow"er*a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being effected or accomplished by the application of
power; possible. [R.] J. Young.

2. Capable of exerting power; powerful. Camden.

POWERFUL
Pow"er*ful, a.

1. Full of power; capable of producing great effects of any kind;
potent; mighty; efficacious; intense; as, a powerful man or beast; a
powerful engine; a powerful argument; a powerful light; a powerful
vessel.
The powerful grace that lies In herbs, plants, stones, and their true
qualities. Shak.

2. (Mining)

Defn: Large; capacious; -- said of veins of ore.

Syn.
 -- Mighty; strong; potent; forcible; efficacious; energetic;
intense.
 -- Pow"er*ful*ly, adv.
 -- Pow"er*ful*ness, n.

POWERLESS
Pow"er*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of power, force, or energy; weak; impotent; not able
to produce any effect.
 -- Pow"er*less*ly, adv.
 -- Pow"er*less*ness, n.

POWLDRON
Powl"dron, n. Etym: [OF. espauleron, from espaule shoulder, F.
épaule.]

Defn: Same as Pauldron.

POWP
Powp, v. i.

Defn: See Poop, v. i. [Obs.] Chaucer.

POWTER
Pow"ter, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Pouter.

POWWOW
Pow"wow`, n.

1. A priest, or conjurer, among the North American Indians.
Be it sagamore, sachem, or powwow. Longfellow.

2. Conjuration attended with great noise and confusion, and often
with feasting, dancing, etc., performed by Indians for the cure of
diseases, to procure success in hunting or in war, and for other
purposes.

3. Hence: Any assembly characterized by noise and confusion; a noisy
frolic or gathering. [Colloq. U. S.]

POWWOW
Pow"wow`, v. i.

1. To use conjuration, with noise and confusion, for the cure of
disease, etc., as among the North American Indians.

2. Hence: To hold a noisy, disorderly meeting. [Colloq. U. S.]

POX
Pox, n. Etym: [For pocks, OE. pokkes. See Pock. It is plural in form
but is used as a singular.] (Med.)

Defn: Strictly, a disease by pustules or eruptions of any kind, but
chiefly or wholly restricted to three or four diseases, -- the
smallpox, the chicken pox, and the vaccine and the venereal diseases.

Note: Pox, when used without an epithet, as in imprecations, formerly
signified smallpox; but it now signifies syphilis.

POX
Pox, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Poxed; p. pr. & vb. n. Poxing.]

Defn: To infect with the pox, or syphilis.

POY
Poy, n. Etym: [OF. apui, apoi, a support, prop., staff, F. appui, fr.
OF. apuier, apoier, to support, F. appuyer, fr. à to (L. ad) + OF.
pui, poi, a rising ground, hill, L. podium. See Podium, Pew.]

1. A support; -- used in composition; as, teapoy.

2. A ropedancer's balancing pole. Johnson.

3. A long boat hook by which barges are propelled against the stream.
[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

POYNADO
Poy*na"do, n.

Defn: A poniard. [Obs.] Lyly.

POYND; POYNDER
Poynd, v., Poynd"er (, n.

Defn: See Poind, Poinder.

POY NETTE
Poy nette", n. Etym: [Cf. Point.]

Defn: A bodkin. [Obs.]

POYNTEL
Poyn"tel, n. Etym: [See Pointal.] (Arch.)

Defn: Paving or flooring made of small squares or lozenges set
diagonally. [Formerly written pointal.]

POYOU
Poy"ou, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American armadillo (Dasypus sexcinctus). Called also
sixbanded armadillo.

POZE
Poze, v. t.

Defn: See 5th Pose.

POZZUOLANA; POZZOLANA
Poz`zu*o*la"na, Poz`zo*la"*na, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: Volcanic ashes from Pozzuoli, in Italy, used in the manufacture
of a kind of mortar which hardens under water.

PRAAM
Praam, n. Etym: [D. praam; cf. G. prahm, F. prame; all of Slavonic
origin, from a word akin to E. fare. See Fare.] (Naut.)

Defn: A flat-bottomed boat or lighter, -- used in Holland and the
Baltic, and sometimes armed in case of war. [Written also pram, and
prame.]

PRACTIC
Prac"tic, a. Etym: [See Practical.]

1. Practical.

2. Artful; deceitful; skillful. [Obs.] "Cunning sleights and practick
knavery." Spenser.

PRACTICABILITY
Prac"ti*ca*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being practicable; practicableness;
feasibility. "The practicability of such a project." Stewart.

PRACTICABLE
Prac"ti*ca*ble, a. Etym: [LL. practicare to act, transact, fr. L.
practicus active, Gr. practicable, pratiquer to practice. See
Practical.]

1. That may be practiced or performed; capable of being done or
accomplished with available means or resources; feasible; as, a
practicable method; a practicable aim; a practicable good.

2. Capable of being used; passable; as, a practicable weapon; a
practicable road. Practicable breach (Mil.), a breach which admits of
approach and entrance by an assailing party.

Syn.
 -- Possible; feasible.
 -- Practicable, Possible. A thing may be possible, i. e., not
forbidden by any law of nature, and yet may not now be practicable
for want of the means requisite to its performance.
 -- Prac"ti*ca*ble*ness, n.
 -- Prac"ti*ca*bly, adv.

PRACTICAL
Prac"ti*cal, a. Etym: [L. practicus active, Gr. pratique, formerly
also practique. Cf. Pragmatic, Practice.]

1. Of or pertaining to practice or action.

2. Capable of being turned to use or account; useful, in distinction
from ideal or theoretical; as, practical chemistry. "Man's practical
understanding." South. "For all practical purposes." Macaulay.

3. Evincing practice or skill; capable of applying knowledge to some
useful end; as, a practical man; a practical mind.

4. Derived from practice; as, practical skill. Practical joke, a joke
put in practice; a joke the fun of which consists in something done,
in distinction from something said; esp., a trick played upon a
person.

PRACTICALITY
Prac`ti*cal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being practical; practicalness.

PRACTICALIZE
Prac"ti*cal*ize, v. t.

Defn: To render practical. [R.] "Practicalizing influences." J. S.
Mill.

PRACTICALLY
Prac"ti*cal*ly, adv.

Defn: 1. In a practical way; not theoretically; really; as, to look
at things practically; practically worthless.

2. By means of practice or use; by experience or experiment; as,
practically wise or skillful; practically acquainted with a subject.

3. In practice or use; as, a medicine practically safe; theoretically
wrong, but practically right. 4. Almost.

PRACTICALNESS
Prac"ti*cal*ness, n.

Defn: Same as Practicality.

PRACTICE
Prac"tice, n. Etym: [OE. praktike, practique, F. pratique, formerly
also, practique, LL. practica, fr. Gr. Practical, and cf. Pratique,
Pretty.]

1. Frequently repeated or customary action; habitual performance; a
succession of acts of a similar kind; usage; habit; custom; as, the
practice of rising early; the practice of making regular entries of
accounts; the practice of daily exercise.
A heart . . . exercised with covetous practices. 2 Pet. ii. 14.

2. Customary or constant use; state of being used.
Obsolete words may be revived when they are more sounding or more
significant than those in practice. Dryden.

3. Skill or dexterity acquired by use; expertness. [R.] "His nice
fence and his active practice." Shak.

4. Actual performance; application of knowledge; -- opposed to
theory.
There are two functions of the soul, -- contemplation and practice.
South.
There is a distinction, but no opposition, between theory and
practice; each, to a certain extent, supposes the other; theory is
dependent on practice; practice must have preceded theory. Sir W.
Hamilton.

5. Systematic exercise for instruction or discipline; as, the troops
are called out for practice; she neglected practice in music.

6. Application of science to the wants of men; the exercise of any
profession; professional business; as, the practice of medicine or
law; a large or lucrative practice.
Practice is exercise of an art, or the application of a science in
life, which application is itself an art. Sir W. Hamilton.

7. Skillful or artful management; dexterity in contrivance or the use
of means; art; stratagem; artifice; plot; -- usually in a bad sense.
[Obs.] Bacon.
He sought to have that by practice which he could not by prayer. Sir
P. Sidney.

8. (Math.)

Defn: A easy and concise method of applying the rules of arithmetic
to questions which occur in trade and business.

9. (Law)

Defn: The form, manner, and order of conducting and carrying on suits
and prosecutions through their various stages, according to the
principles of law and the rules laid down by the courts. Bouvier.

Syn.
 -- Custom; usage; habit; manner.

PRACTICE
Prac"tice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Practiced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Practicing.] Etym: [Often written practise, practised, practising.]

1. To do or perform frequently, customarily, or habitually; to make a
practice of; as, to practice gaming. "Incline not my heart . . .
practice wicked works." Ps. cxli. 4.

2. To exercise, or follow, as a profession, trade, art, etc., as, to
practice law or medicine.

2. To exercise one's self in, for instruction or improvement, or to
acquire discipline or dexterity; as, to practice gunnery; to practice
music.

4. To put into practice; to carry out; to act upon; to commit; to
execute; to do. "Aught but Talbot's shadow whereon to practice your
severity." Shak.
As this advice ye practice or neglect. Pope.

5. To make use of; to employ. [Obs.]
In malice to this good knight's wife, I practiced Ubaldo and Ricardo
to corrupt her. Massinger.

6. To teach or accustom by practice; to train.
In church they are taught to love God; after church they are
practiced to love their neighbor. Landor.

PRACTICE
Prac"tice, v. i. Etym: [Often written practise.]

1. To perform certain acts frequently or customarily, either for
instruction, profit, or amusement; as, to practice with the
broadsword or with the rifle; to practice on the piano. practise

2. To learn by practice; to form a habit.
They shall practice how to live secure. Milton.
Practice first over yourself to reign. Waller.

3. To try artifices or stratagems.
He will practice against thee by poison. Shak.

4. To apply theoretical science or knowledge, esp. by way of
experiment; to exercise or pursue an employment or profession, esp.
that of medicine or of law.
[I am] little inclined to practice on others, and as little that
others should practice on me. Sir W. Temple.

PRACTICED
Prac"ticed, a. Etym: [Often written practised.]

1. Experienced; expert; skilled; as, a practiced marksman. "A
practiced picklock." Ld. Lytton.

2. Used habitually; learned by practice.

PRACTICER
Prac"ti*cer, n. Etym: [Often written practiser.]

1. One who practices, or puts in practice; one who customarily
performs certain acts. South.

2. One who exercises a profession; a practitioner.

3. One who uses art or stratagem. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

PRACTICIAN
Prac*ti"cian, n. Etym: [F. praticien, OF. also practicien.]

Defn: One who is acquainted with, or skilled in, anything by
practice; a practitioner.

PRACTICK
Prac"tick, n.

Defn: Practice. [Obs.] Chaucer.

PRACTICO
Prac"ti*co, n.; pl. Practicos (#). [Sp., lit., experienced, skilled.
Cf. Practical.]

Defn: A guide. [Cuba & Phil. Islands]  D. C. Worcester.

PRACTISANT
Prac"ti*sant, n.

Defn: An agent or confederate in treachery. [Obs.] Shak.

PRACTISE
Prac"tise, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Practice.

Note: The analogy of the English language requires that the noun and
verb which are pronounced alike should agree in spelling. Thus we
have notice (n. & v.), noticed, noticing, noticer; poultice (n. &
v.); apprentice (n. & v.); office (n. & v.), officer (n.); lattice
(n.), latticed (a.); benefice (n.), beneficed (a.), etc. Cf.
sacrifice (surmise (promise (compromise (advice (advise (device
(devise (

PRACTISOUR
Prac"ti*sour, n.

Defn: A practitioner. [Obs.]

PRACTITIONER
Prac*ti"tion*er, n. Etym: [From Practician.]

1. One who is engaged in the actual use or exercise of any art or
profession, particularly that of law or medicine. Crabbe.

2. One who does anything customarily or habitually.

3. A sly or artful person. Whitgift. General practitioner. See under
General, 2.

PRACTIVE
Prac"tive, a.

Defn: Doing; active. [Obs.] Sylvester.
 -- Prac"tive*ly, adv. [Obs.]
The preacher and the people both, Then practively did thrive. Warner.

PRAD
Prad, n. Etym: [Cf. D. paard.]

Defn: A horse. [Colloq. Eng.]

PRAE-
Præ-.

Defn: A prefix. See Pre-.

PRAECAVA
Præ"ca`va, n. Etym: [NL. See Pre-, and 1st Cave.] (Anat.)

Defn: The superior vena cava.
 -- Præ"ca`val, a. B. G. Wilder.

PRAECIPE
Præc"i*pe, n. Etym: [L., imperative of praecipere to give rules or
precepts. See Precept.] (Law)
(a) A writ commanding something to be done, or requiring a reason for
neglecting it.
(b) A paper containing the particulars of a writ, lodged in the
office out of which the writ is to be issued. Wharton.

PRAECOCES
Præ"co*ces, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Precocious.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of birds including those whose young are able to run
about when first hatched.

PRAECOCIAL
Præ*co"cial, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Præcoces.

PRAECOGNITA
Præ*cog"ni*ta, n. pl. Etym: [L. praecognitus, p. p. of praecognoscere
to foreknow. See Pre-, and Cognition.]

Defn: This previously known, or which should be known in order to
understand something else.

PRAECOMMISSURE
Præ*com"mis*sure, n. Etym: [Pref. præ + commissure.] (Anat.)

Defn: A transverse commissure in the anterior part of the third
ventricle of the brain; the anterior cerebral commissure.

PRAECORACOID
Præ*cor"a*coid, n. (Anat.)

Defn: See Precoracoid.

PRAECORDIA
Præ*cor"di*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. prae before + cor, cordis, the
heart.] (Anat.)

Defn: The front part of the thoracic region; the epigastrium.

PRAECORDIAL
Præ*cor"di*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Precordial.

PRAECORNU
Præ*cor"nu, n.; pl. Præcornua. Etym: [NL. See Pre-, and Cornu.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The anterior horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain. B. G.
Wilder.

PRAEDIAL
Præ"di*al, a.

Defn: See Predial.

PRAEFLORATION
Præ`flo*ra"tion, n.

Defn: Same as Prefloration. Gray.

PRAEFOLIATION
Præ*fo`li*a"tion, n.

Defn: Same as Prefoliation. Gray.

PRAEMAXILLA
Præ`max*il"la, n.

Defn: See Premaxilla.

PRAEMOLAR
Præ*mo"lar, a.

Defn: See Premolar.

PRAEMORSE
Præ*morse", a.

Defn: Same as Premorse.

PRAEMUNIRE
Præm`u*ni"re, n. Etym: [Corrupted from L. praemonere to forewarn,
cite. See Admonish.] (Eng. Law)
(a) The offense of introducing foreign authority into England, the
penalties for which were originally intended to depress the civil
power of the pope in the kingdom.
(b) The writ grounded on that offense. Wharton.
(c) The penalty ascribed for the offense of præmunire.
Wolsey incurred a præmunire, and forfeited his honor, estate, and
life. South.

Note: The penalties of præmunire were subsequently applied to many
other offenses; but prosecutions upon a præmunire are at this day
unheard of in the English courts. Blackstone.

PRAEMUNIRE
Præm`u*ni"re, v. t.

1. The subject to the penalties of præmunire. [Obs.] T. Ward.

PRAEMUNITORY
Præ*mu"ni*to*ry, a.

Defn: See Premunitory.

PRAENARES
Præ*na"res, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Pre-, Nares.] (Anat.)

Defn: The anterior nares. See Nares. B. G. Wilder.

PRAENASAL
Præ*na"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Prenasal.

PRAENOMEN
Præ*no"men, n.; pl. Prænomina. Etym: [L., fr. prae before + nomen
name.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: The first name of a person, by which individuals of the same
family were distinguished, answering to our Christian name, as Caius,
Lucius, Marcus, etc.

PRAENOMINICAL
Præ`no*min"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a prænomen. [Obs.] M. A. Lower.

PRAEOPERCULUM
Præ`o*per"cu*lum, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Preoperculum.
 -- Præ`o*per"cu*lar, a.

PRAEORAL; PRAEPUBIS; PRAESCAPULA; PRAESCUTUM; PRAESTERNUM
Præ*o"ral, n., Præ*pu"bis, n., Præ*scap"u*la, n., Præ*scu"tum, n.,
Præ*ster"num, n.

Defn: Same as Preoral, Prepubis, Prescapula, etc.

PRAETER-
Præ"ter-.

Defn: A prefix. See Preter-.

PRAETERIST
Præt"er*ist, n. (Theol.)

Defn: See Preterist.

PRAETERMIT
Præ`ter*mit", v. t.

Defn: See Pretermit.

PRAETEXTA
Præ*tex"ta, n.; pl. Prætextæ, E. Prætextas. Etym: [L. (sc. toga), fr.
praetextus, p. p. of praetexere to weave before, to fringe, border;
prae before + texere to weave.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A white robe with a purple border, worn by a Roman boy before
he was entitled to wear the toga virilis, or until about the
completion of his fourteenth year, and by girls until their marriage.
It was also worn by magistrates and priests.

PRAETOR
Præ"tor, n.

Defn: See Pretor.

PRAETORES
Præ*to"res, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Pretor.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of butterflies including the satyrs.

PRAETORIAN
Præ*to"ri*an, a.

Defn: See Pretorian.

PRAETORIUM
Præ*to"ri*um, n.

Defn: See Pretorium.

PRAEZYGAPOPHYSIS
Præ*zyg`a*poph"y*sis, n. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Prezygapophysis.

PRAGMATIC; PRAGMATICAL
Prag*mat"ic, Prag*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. pragmaticus busy, active,
skilled in business, especially in law and state affairs, systematic,
Gr. pragmatique. See Practical.]

1. Of or pertaining to business or to affairs; of the nature of
business; practical; material; businesslike in habit or manner.
The next day . . . I began to be very pragmatical. Evelyn.
We can not always be contemplative, diligent, or pragmatical, abroad;
but have need of some delightful intermissions. Milton.
Low, pragmatical, earthly views of the gospel. Hare.

2. Busy; specifically, busy in an objectionable way; officious; fussy
and positive; meddlesome. "Pragmatical officers of justice." Sir W.
Scott.
The fellow grew so pragmatical that he took upon him the government
of my whole family. Arbuthnot.

3. Philosophical; dealing with causes, reasons, and effects, rather
than with details and circumstances; -- said of literature.
"Pragmatic history." Sir W. Hamilton. "Pragmatic poetry." M. Arnold.
Pragmatic sanction, a solemn ordinance or decree issued by the head
or legislature of a state upon weighty matters; -- a term derived
from the Byzantine empire. In European history, two decrees under
this name are particularly celebrated. One of these, issued by
Charles VII. of France, A. D. 1438, was the foundation of the
liberties of the Gallican church; the other, issued by Charles VI. of
Germany, A. D. 1724, settled his hereditary dominions on his eldest
daughter, the Archduchess Maria Theresa.

PRAGMATIC
Prag*mat"ic, n.

1. One skilled in affairs.
My attorney and solicitor too; a fine pragmatic. B. Jonson.

2. A solemn public ordinance or decree.
A royal pragmatic was accordingly passed. Prescott.

PRAGMATICALLY
Prag*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a pragmatical manner.

PRAGMATICALNESS
Prag*mat"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being pragmatical.

PRAGMATISM
Prag"ma*tism, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being pragmatic; in literature, the
pragmatic, or philosophical, method.
The narration of this apparently trifling circumstance belongs to the
pragmatism of the history. A. Murphy.

PRAGMATIST
Prag"ma*tist, n.

Defn: One who is pragmatic.

PRAGMATIZE
Prag"ma*tize, v. t.

Defn: To consider, represent, or embody (something unreal) as fact;
to materialize. [R.] "A pragmatized metaphor." Tylor.

PRAIRIAL
Prai`ri`al", n. Etym: [F., fr. prairie meadow.]

Defn: The ninth month of the French Republican calendar, which dated
from September 22, 1792. It began May, 20, and ended June 18. See
Vendemiaire.

PRAIRIE
Prai"rie, n. Etym: [F., an extensive meadow, OF. praerie, LL.
prataria, fr. L. pratum a meadow.]

1. An extensive tract of level or rolling land, destitute of trees,
covered with coarse grass, and usually characterized by a deep,
fertile soil. They abound throughout the Mississippi valley, between
the Alleghanies and the Rocky mountains.
From the forests and the prairies, From the great lakes of the
northland. Longfellow.

2. A meadow or tract of grass; especially, a so called natural
meadow. Prairie chicken (Zoöl.), any American grouse of the genus
Tympanuchus, especially T. Americanus (formerly T. cupido), which
inhabits the prairies of the central United States. Applied also to
the sharp-tailed grouse.
 -- Prairie clover (Bot.), any plant of the leguminous genus
Petalostemon, having small rosy or white flowers in dense terminal
heads or spikes. Several species occur in the prairies of the United
States.
 -- Prairie dock (Bot.), a coarse composite plant (Silphium
terebinthaceum) with large rough leaves and yellow flowers, found in
the Western prairies.
 -- Prairie dog (Zoöl.), a small American rodent (Cynomys
Ludovicianus) allied to the marmots. It inhabits the plains west of
the Mississippi. The prairie dogs burrow in the ground in large
warrens, and have a sharp bark like that of a dog. Called also
prairie marmot.
 -- Prairie grouse. Same as Prairie chicken, above.
 -- Prairie hare (Zoöl.), a large long-eared Western hare (Lepus
campestris). See Jack rabbit, under 2d Jack.
 -- Prairie hawk, Prairie falcon (Zoöl.), a falcon of Western North
America (Falco Mexicanus). The upper parts are brown. The tail has
transverse bands of white; the under parts, longitudinal streaks and
spots of brown.
 -- Prairie hen. (Zoöl.) Same as Prairie chicken, above.
 -- Prairie itch (Med.), an affection of the skin attended with
intense itching, which is observed in the Northern and Western United
States; -- also called swamp itch, winter itch.
 -- Prairie marmot. (Zoöl.) Same as Prairie dog, above.
 -- Prairie mole (Zoöl.), a large American mole (Scalops argentatus),
native of the Western prairies.
 -- Prairie pigeon, plover, or snipe (Zoöl.), the upland plover. See
Plover, n., 2.
 -- Prairie rattlesnake (Zoöl.), the massasauga.
 -- Prairie snake (Zoöl.), a large harmless American snake
(Masticophis flavigularis). It is pale yellow, tinged with brown
above.
 -- Prairie squirrel (Zoöl.), any American ground squirrel of the
genus Spermophilus, inhabiting prairies; -- called also gopher.
 -- Prairie turnip (Bot.), the edible turnip-shaped farinaceous root
of a leguminous plant (Psoralea esculenta) of the Upper Missouri
region; also, the plant itself. Called also pomme blanche, and pomme
de prairie.
 -- Prairie warbler (Zoöl.), a bright-colored American warbler
(Dendroica discolor). The back is olive yellow, with a group of
reddish spots in the middle; the under parts and the parts around the
eyes are bright yellow; the sides of the throat and spots along the
sides, black; three outer tail feathers partly white.
 -- Prairie wolf. (Zoöl.) See Coyote.

PRAIRIE STATE
Prai"rie State.

Defn: Illinois; -- a nickname.

PRAISABLE
Prais"a*ble, a.

Defn: Fit to be praised; praise-worthy; laudable; commendable. Wyclif
(2 Tim. ii. 15).

PRAISABLY
Prais"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a praisable manner.

PRAISE
Praise, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Praised; p. pr. & vb. n. Praising.] Etym:
[OE. preisen, OF. preisier, prisier, F. priser, L. pretiare to prize,
fr. pretium price. See Price, n., and cf. Appreciate, Praise, n.,
Prize, v.]

1. To commend; to applaud; to express approbation of; to laud; --
applied to a person or his acts. "I praise well thy wit." Chaucer.
Let her own works praise her in the gates. Prov. xxxi. 31.
We praise not Hector, though his name, we know, Is great in arms; 't
is hard to praise a foe. Dryden.

2. To extol in words or song; to magnify; to glorify on account of
perfections or excellent works; to do honor to; to display the
excellence of; -- applied especially to the Divine Being.
Praise ye him, all his angels; praise ye him, all his hosts! Ps.
cxlviii. 2.

3. To value; to appraise. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

Syn.
 -- To commend; laud; eulogize; celebrate; glorify; magnify.
 -- To Praise, Applaud, Extol. To praise is to set at high price; to
applaud is to greet with clapping; to extol is to bear aloft, to
exalt. We may praise in the exercise of calm judgment; we usually
applaud from impulse, and on account of some specific act; we extol
under the influence of high admiration, and usually in strong, if not
extravagant, language.

PRAISE
Praise, n. Etym: [OE. preis, OF. preis price, worth, value,
estimation. See Praise, v., Price.]

1. Commendation for worth; approval expressed; honor rendered because
of excellence or worth; laudation; approbation.
There are men who always confound the praise of goodness with the
practice. Rambler.

Note: Praise may be expressed by an individual, and thus differs from
fame, renown, and celebrity, which are always the expression of the
approbation of numbers, or public commendation.

2. Especially, the joyful tribute of gratitude or homage rendered to
the Divine Being; the act of glorifying or extolling the Creator;
worship, particularly worship by song, distinction from prayer and
other acts of worship; as, a service of praise.

3. The object, ground, or reason of praise.
He is thy praise, and he is thy God. Deut. x.

Syn.
 -- Encomium; honor; eulogy; panegyric; plaudit; applause; acclaim;
eclat; commendation; laudation.

PRAISEFUL
Praise"ful, a.

Defn: Praiseworthy. [Obs.]

PRAISEFUL
Praise"ful, a.

Defn: Praiseworthy. [Obs.]

PRAISELESS
Praise"less, a.

Defn: Without praise or approbation.

PRAISE-MEETING
Praise"-meet`*ing, n.

Defn: A religious service mainly in song. [Local, U. S.]

PRAISEMENT
Praise"ment, n.

Defn: Appraisement. [Obs.]

PRAISER
Prais"er, n.

1. One who praises. "Praisers of men." Sir P. Sidney.

2. An appraiser; a valuator. [Obs.] Sir T. North.

PRAISEWORTHILY
Praise"wor`thi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a praiseworthy manner. Spenser.

PRAISEWORTHINESS
Praise"wor`thi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being praiseworthy.

PRAISEWORTHY
Praise"wor`thy, a.

Defn: Worthy of praise or applause; commendable; as, praiseworthy
action; he was praiseworthy. Arbuthnot.

PRAKRIT
Pra"krit, n. Etym: [Skr. prakrsta original, natural, usual, common,
vulgar.]

Defn: Any one of the popular dialects descended from, or akin to,
Sanskrit; -- in distinction from the Sanskrit, which was used as a
literary and learned language when no longer spoken by the people.
Pali is one of the Prakrit dialects.

PRAKRITIC
Pra*krit"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Prakrit.

PRALINE
Pra"line (prä"len), n. [F.]

Defn: A confection made of nut kernels, usually of almonds, roasted
in boiling sugar until brown and crisp.

Bonbons, pralines, . . . saccharine, crystalline substances of all
kinds and colors.
Du Maurier.

PRALLTRILLER
Prall"tril`ler, n.; G. pl. -triller. [G.] (Music)

Defn: A melodic embellishment consisting of the quick alternation of
a principal tone with an auxiliary tone above it, usually the next of
the scale; --called also the inverted mordente.

PRAM; PRAME
Pram, Prame, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Praam.

PRANCE
Prance, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pranced; p. pr. & vb. n. Prancing.] Etym:
[OE. prauncen; probably akin to prank, v. t. See Prank.]

1. To spring or bound, as a horse in high mettle.
Now rule thy prancing steed. Gay.

2. To ride on a prancing horse; to ride in an ostentatious manner.
The insulting tyrant prancing o'er the field. Addison.

3. To walk or strut about in a pompous, showy manner, or with warlike
parade. Swift.

PRANCER
Pran"cer, n.

Defn: A horse which prances.
Then came the captain . . . upon a brave prancer. Evelyn.

PRANDIAL
Pran"di*al, a. Etym: [L. prandium a repast.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a repast, especially to dinner.

PRANGOS
Pran"gos, n. Etym: [From the native name in Afghanistan.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of umbelliferous plants, one species of which (P.
pabularia), found in Thibet, Cashmere, Afghanistan, etc., has been
used as fodder for cattle. It has decompound leaves with very long
narrow divisions, and a highly fragrant smell resembling that of new
clover hay.

PRANK
Prank, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pranked; p. pr. & vb. n. Pranking.] Etym:
[Cf. E. prink, also G. prangen, prunken, to shine, to make a show,
Dan. prange, prunke, Sw. prunka, D. pronken.]

Defn: To adorn in a showy manner; to dress or equip ostentatiously; -
- often followed by up; as, to prank up the body. See Prink.
In sumptuous tire she joyed herself to prank. Spenser.

PRANK
Prank, v. i.

Defn: To make ostentatious show.
White houses prank where once were huts. M. Arnold.

PRANK
Prank, n.

Defn: A gay or sportive action; a ludicrous, merry, or mischievous
trick; a caper; a frolic. Spenser.
The harpies . . . played their accustomed pranks. Sir W. Raleigh.
His pranks have been too broad to bear with. Shak.

PRANK
Prank, a.

Defn: Full of gambols or tricks. [Obs.]

PRANKER
Prank"er, n.

Defn: One who dresses showily; a prinker. "A pranker or a dancer."
Burton.

PRANKISH
Prank"ish, a.

Defn: Full of pranks; frolicsome.

PRASE
Prase, n. Etym: [L. prasius, fr. Gr. prase.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of cryptocrystalline of a leek-green color.

PRASEO-
Pra"se*o-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form signifying green; as, praseocobalt, a green
variety of cobalt.

PRASEODYMIUM
Pra`se*o*dym"i*um, n. Etym: [Praseo- + didymium.] (Chem.)

Defn: An elementary substance, one of the constituents of didymium; -
- so called from the green color of its salts. Symbol Ps. Atomic
weight 143.6.

PRASEOLITE
Pra"se*o*lite, n. Etym: [Praseo- + -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of altered iolite of a green color and greasy luster.

PRASINOUS
Pras"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. prasinus, Gr.

Defn: Grass-green; clear, lively green, without any mixture. Lindley.

PRASOID
Pra"soid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Min.)

Defn: Resembling prase.

PRATE
Prate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Prated; p. pr. & vb. n. Prating.] Etym:
[Akin to LG. & D. praten, Dan. prate, Sw. & Icel. prata.]

Defn: To talk much and to little purpose; to be loquacious; to speak
foolishly; to babble.
To prate and talk for life and honor. Shak.
And make a fool presume to prate of love. Dryden.

PRATE
Prate, v. t.

Defn: To utter foolishly; to speak without reason or purpose; to
chatter, or babble.
What nonsense would the fool, thy master, prate, When thou, his
knave, canst talk at such a rate ! Dryden.

PRATE
Prate, n. Etym: [Akin to LG. & D. praat, Sw. prat.]

Defn: Talk to little purpose; trifling talk; unmeaning loquacity.
Sick of tops, and poetry, and prate. Pope.

PRATEFUL
Prate"ful, a.

Defn: Talkative. [R.] W. Taylor.

PRATER
Prat"er, n.

Defn: One who prates. Shak.

PRATIC
Prat"ic, n.

Defn: See Pratique.

PRATINCOLE
Pra"tin*cole, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the Old World genus Glareola, or family Glareolidæ,
allied to the plovers. They have long, pointed wings and a forked
tail.

PRATINGLY
Prat"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With idle talk; with loquacity.

PRATIQUE
Prat"ique, n. Etym: [F.; cf. It. pratica, Sp. practica. See
Practice.]

1. (Com.)

Defn: Primarily, liberty of converse; intercourse; hence, a
certificate, given after compliance with quarantine regulations,
permitting a ship to land passengers and crew; -- a term used
particularly in the south of Europe.

2. Practice; habits. [Obs.] "One of English education and pratique."
R. North.

PRATTLE
Prat"tle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Prattled; p. pr. & vb. n. Prattling.]
Etym: [Freq. of prate.]

Defn: To talk much and idly; to prate; hence, to talk lightly and
artlessly, like a child; to utter child's talk.

PRATTLE
Prat"tle, v. t.

Defn: To utter as prattle; to babble; as, to prattle treason.
Addison.

PRATTLE
Prat"tle, n.

Defn: Trifling or childish tattle; empty talk; loquacity on trivial
subjects; prate; babble.
Mere prattle, without practice. Shak.

PRATTLEMENT
Prat"tle*ment, n.

Defn: Prattle. [R.] Jeffrey.

PRATTLER
Prat"tler, n.

Defn: One who prattles. Herbert.

PRAVITY
Prav"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. pravitas, from pravus crooked, perverse.]

Defn: Deterioration; degeneracy; corruption; especially, moral
crookedness; moral perversion; perverseness; depravity; as, the
pravity of human nature. "The pravity of the will." South.

PRAWN
Prawn, n. Etym: [OE. prane, of unknown origin; cf. L. perna a sea
mussel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of large shrimplike Crustacea
having slender legs and long antennæ. They mostly belong to the
genera Pandalus, Palæmon, Palæmonetes, and Peneus, and are much used
as food. The common English prawn in Palæmon serratus.

Note: The name is often applied to any large shrimp.

PRAXINOSCOPE
Prax*in"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Opt.)

Defn: An instrument, similar to the phenakistoscope, for presenting
to view, or projecting upon a screen, images the natural motions of
real objects.

PRAXIS
Prax"is, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Practice.]

1. Use; practice; especially, exercise or discipline for a specific
purpose or object. "The praxis and theory of music." Wood.

2. An example or form of exercise, or a collection of such examples,
for practice.

PRAY
Pray, n. & v.

Defn: See Pry. [Obs.] Spenser.

PRAY
Pray, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Prayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Praying.] Etym:
[OE. preien, OF. preier, F. prier, L. precari, fr. prex, precis, a
prayer, a request; akin to Skr. prach to ask, AS. frignan, frinan,
fricgan, G. fragen, Goth. fraíhnan. Cf. Deprecate, Imprecate,
Precarious.]

Defn: To make request with earnestness or zeal, as for something
desired; to make entreaty or supplication; to offer prayer to a deity
or divine being as a religious act; specifically, to address the
Supreme Being with adoration, confession, supplication, and
thanksgiving.
And to his goddess pitously he preyde. Chaucer.
When thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy
door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which
seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. Matt. vi. 6.
I pray, or (by ellipsis) Pray, I beg; I request; I entreat you; --
used in asking a question, making a request, introducing a petition,
etc.; as, Pray, allow me to go.
I pray, sir. why am I beaten Shak.

Syn.
 -- To entreat; supplicate; beg; implore; invoke; beseech; petition.

PRAY
Pray, v. t.

1. To address earnest request to; to supplicate; to entreat; to
implore; to beseech.
And as this earl was preyed, so did he. Chaucer.
We pray you . . . by ye reconciled to God. 2 Cor. v. 20.

2. To ask earnestly for; to seek to obtain by supplication; to
entreat for.
I know not how to pray your patience. Shak.

3. To effect or accomplish by praying; as, to pray a soul out of
purgatory. Milman. To pray in aid. (Law) (a) To call in as a helper
one who has an interest in the cause. Bacon. (b) A phrase often used
to signify claiming the benefit of an argument. See under Aid. Mozley
& W.

PRAYER
Pray"er, n.

Defn: One who prays; a supplicant.

PRAYER
Prayer (, n. Etym: [OE. preiere, OF. preiere, F. prière, fr. L.
precarius obtained by prayer, fr. precari to pray. See Pray, v. i.]

1. The act of praying, or of asking a favor; earnest request or
entreaty; hence, a petition or memorial addressed to a court or a
legislative body. "Their meek preyere." Chaucer

2. The act of addressing supplication to a divinity, especially to
the true God; the offering of adoration, confession, supplication,
and thanksgiving to the Supreme Being; as, public prayer; secret
prayer.
As he is famed for mildness, peace, and prayer. Shak.

3. The form of words used in praying; a formula of supplication; an
expressed petition; especially, a supplication addressed to God; as,
a written or extemporaneous prayer; to repeat one's prayers.
He made those excellent prayers which were published immediately
after his death. Bp. Fell.
Prayer book, a book containing devotional prayers.
 -- Prayer meeting, a meeting or gathering for prayer to God.

Syn.
 -- Petition; orison; supplication; entreaty; suit.

PRAYERFUL
Prayer"ful, a.

Defn: Given to prayer; praying much or often; devotional. "The
prayerful man." J. S. Blackie.
 -- Prayer"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Prayer"ful*ness, n.

PRAYERLESS
Prayer"less, a.

Defn: Not using prayer; habitually neglecting prayer to God; without
prayer. "The next time you go prayerless to bed." Baxter.
 -- Prayer"less*ly, adv.
 -- Prayer"less*ness, n.

PRAYING
Pray"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Pray, v. Praying insect, locust, or mantis
(Zoöl.), a mantis, especially Mantis religiosa. See Mantis.
 -- Praying machine, or Praying wheel, a wheel on which prayers are
pasted by Buddhist priests, who then put the wheel in rapid
revolution. Each turn in supposed to have the efficacy of an oral
repetition of all the prayers on the wheel. Sometimes it is moved by
a stream.

PRAYINGLY
Pray"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With supplication to God.

PRE-
Pre-. Etym: [L. prae, adv. & prep., before, akin to pro, and to E.
for, prep.: cf. F. pré-. See Pro-, and cf. Prior.]

Defn: A prefix denoting priority (of time, place, or rank); as,
precede, to go before; precursor, a forerunner; prefix, to fix or
place before; preëminent eminent before or above others. Pre- is
sometimes used intensively, as in prepotent, very potent. [Written
also præ-.]

PREACCUSATION
Pre*ac`cu*sa"tion, n.

Defn: Previous accusation.

PREACE
Preace, v. & n.

Defn: Press. [Obs.] Spenser.

PREACH
Preach, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Preached; p. pr. & vb. n. Preaching.]
Etym: [OE. prechen, OF. preechier, F. prêcher, fr. L. praedicare to
cry in public, to proclaim; prae before + dicare to make known,
dicere to say; or perhaps from (assumed) LL. praedictare. See
Diction, and cf. Predicate, Predict.]

1. To proclaim or publish tidings; specifically, to proclaim the
gospel; to discourse publicly on a religious subject, or from a text
of Scripture; to deliver a sermon.
How shall they preach, except they be sent Rom. x. 15.
From that time Jesus began to preach. Matt. iv. 17.

2. To give serious advice on morals or religion; to discourse in the
manner of a preacher.

PREACH
Preach, v. t.

1. To proclaim by public discourse; to utter in a sermon or a formal
religious harangue.
That Cristes gospel truly wolde preche. Chaucer.
The Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. Isa.
lxi. 1.

2. To inculcate in public discourse; to urge with earnestness by
public teaching. "I have preached righteousness in the great
congregation." Ps. xl. 9.

3. To deliver or pronounce; as, to preach a sermon.

4. To teach or instruct by preaching; to inform by preaching. [R.]
"As ye are preached." Southey.

5. To advise or recommend earnestly.
My master preaches patience to him. Shak.
To preach down, to oppress, or humiliate by preaching. Tennyson.
 -- To preach up, to exalt by preaching; to preach in support of; as,
to preach up equality.

PREACH
Preach, n. Etym: [Cf. F. prêche, fr. prêcher. See Preach, v.]

Defn: A religious discourse. [Obs.] Hooker.

PREACHER
Preach"er, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. preeschierre, prescheur, F. prêcheur, L.
praedicator.]

1. One who preaches; one who discourses publicly on religious
subjects.
How shall they hear without a preacher Rom. x. 14.

2. One who inculcates anything with earnestness.
No preacher is listened to but Time. Swift.
Preacher bird (Zoöl.), a toucan.

PREACHERSHIP
Preach"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a preacher. "The preachership of the Rolls."
Macaulay.

PREACHIFY
Preach"i*fy, v. i. Etym: [Preach + -fy.]

Defn: To discourse in the manner of a preacher. [Colloq.] Thackeray.

PREACHING
Preach"ing, n.

Defn: The act of delivering a religious discourse; the art of
sermonizing; also, a sermon; a public religious discourse; serious,
earnest advice. Milner. Preaching cross, a cross, sometimes
surmounting a pulpit, erected out of doors to designate a preaching
place.
 -- Preaching friars. See Dominican.

PREACHMAN
Preach"man, n.; pl. Preachmen (.

Defn: A preacher; -- so called in contempt. [Obs.] Howell.

PREACHMENT
Preach"ment, n.

Defn: A religious harangue; a sermon; -- used derogatively. Shak.

PREACQUAINT
Pre`ac*quaint", v. t.

Defn: To acquaint previously or beforehand. Fielding.

PREACQUAINTANCE
Pre`ac*quaint"ance, n.

Defn: Previous acquaintance or knowledge. Harris.

PREACT
Pre*act", v. t.

Defn: To act beforehand; to perform previously.

PREACTION
Pre*ac"tion, n.

Defn: Previous action.

PREADAMIC
Pre`a*dam"ic, a.

Defn: Prior to Adam.

PREADAMITE
Pre*ad"am*ite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. préadamite.]

1. An inhabitant of the earth before Adam.

2. One who holds that men existed before Adam.

PREADAMITIC
Pre*ad`am*it"ic, a.

Defn: Existing or occurring before Adam; preadamic; as, preadamitic
periods.

PREADJUSTMENT
Pre`ad*just"ment, n.

Defn: Previous adjustment.

PREADMINISTRATION
Pre`ad*min`is*tra"tion, n.

Defn: Previous administration. Bp. Pearson.

PREADMISSION
Pre`ad*mis"sion, n.

Defn: Lit., previous admission; specif. (Engin.),

Defn: admission, as of steam, to the engine cylinder before the back
stroke is completed, thus increasing the cushioning.

PREADMONISH
Pre`ad*mon"ish, v. t.

Defn: To admonish previously.

PREADMONITION
Pre*ad`mo*ni"tion, n.

Defn: Previous warning or admonition; forewarning.

PREADVERTISE
Pre*ad`ver*tise", v. t.

Defn: To advertise beforehand; to preannounce publicly.

PREAMBLE
Pre"am`ble, n. Etym: [LL. praeambulum, from L. praeambulus walking
before, fr. praeambulare to walk before; prae before + ambulare to
walk: cf. F. préambule. See Amble.]

Defn: A introductory portion; an introduction or preface, as to a
book, document, etc.; specifically, the introductory part of a
statute, which states the reasons and intent of the law.

PREAMBLE
Pre"am`ble, v. t. & i.

Defn: To make a preamble to; to preface; to serve as a preamble. [R.]
Feltham. Milton.

PREAMBULARY
Pre*am"bu*la*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. preambulaire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a preamble; introductory; contained or
provided for in a preamble. "A preambulary tax." [R.] Burke.

PREAMBULATE
Pre*am"bu*late, v. i. Etym: [L. praeambulare. See Preamble.]

Defn: To walk before. [R.] Jordan.

PREAMBULATION
Pre*am`bu*la"tion, n.

1. A walking or going before; precedence. [R.]

2. A preamble. [Obs.] Chaucer.

PREAMBULATORY
Pre*am"bu*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Preceding; going before; introductory. [R.]
Simon Magus had preambulatory impieties. Jer. Taylor.

PREAMBULOUS
Pre*am"bu*lous, a. Etym: [See Preamble, n.]

Defn: See Perambulatory. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

PREANNOUNCE
Pre`an*nounce", v. t.

Defn: To announce beforehand. Coleridge.

PREANTENULTIMATE
Pre*an`te*nul"ti*mate, a.

Defn: Being or indicating the fourth syllable from the end of a word,
or that before the antepenult.

PREAORTIC
Pre`a*or"tic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: In front, or on the ventral side, of the aorta.

PREAPPOINT
Pre`ap*point", v. t.

Defn: To appoint previously, or beforehand. Carlyle.

PREAPPOINTMENT
Pre`ap*point"ment, n.

Defn: Previous appointment.

PREAPPREHENSION
Pre*ap`pre*hen"sion, n.

Defn: An apprehension or opinion formed before examination or
knowledge. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

PREARM
Pre*arm", v. t.

Defn: To forearm. [R.]

PREARRANGE
Pre`ar*range", v. t.

Defn: To arrange beforehand.

PREASE
Prease, v. t. & i.

Defn: To press; to crowd. [Obs.] -- n.

Defn: A press; a crowd. [Obs.] Spenser.

PREASSURANCE
Pre`as*sur"ance, n.

Defn: Previous assurance. Coleridge.

PREATAXIC
Pre`a*tax"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Occurring before the symptom ataxia has developed; -- applied
to the early symptoms of locomotor ataxia.

PREAUDIENCE
Pre*au"di*ence, n. (Eng. Law)

Defn: Precedence of rank at the bar among lawyers. Blackstone.

PREAXIAL
Pre*ax"i*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of any transverse axis in the body of an
animal; anterior; cephalic; esp., in front, or on the anterior, or
cephalic (that is, radial or tibial) side of the axis of a limb.

PREBEND
Pre"bend, n. Etym: [F. prébende (cf. It. & Sp. prebenda), from L.
praebenda, from L. praebere to hold forth, afford, contr. fr.
praehibere; prae before + habere to have, hold. See Habit, and cf.
Provender.]

1. A payment or stipend; esp., the stipend or maintenance granted to
a prebendary out of the estate of a cathedral or collegiate, church
with which he is connected. See Note under Benefice.

2. A prebendary. [Obs.] Bacon. Dignitary prebend, one having
jurisdiction annexed to it.
 -- Simple prebend, one without jurisdiction.

PREBENDAL
Pre*ben"dal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a prebend; holding a prebend; as, a
prebendal priest or stall. Chesterfield.

PREBENDARY
Preb"en*da*ry, n. Etym: [LL. praebendarius: cf. F. prébendaire. See
Prebend.]

1. A clergyman attached to a collegiate or cathedral church who
enjoys a prebend in consideration of his officiating at stated times
in the church. See Note under Benefice, n., 3. Hook.

2. A prebendaryship. [Obs.] Bailey.

PREBENDARYSHIP
Preb"en*da*ry*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a prebendary.

PREBENDATE
Preb"en*date, v. t. Etym: [LL. praebendatus, p. p. of praebendari.]

Defn: To invest with the office of prebendary; to present to a
prebend. [Obs.] Grafton.

PREBENDSHIP
Preb"end*ship, n.

Defn: A prebendaryship. [Obs.] Foxe.

PREBRONCHIAL
Pre*bron"chi*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of the bronchus; -- applied especially to an
air sac on either side of the esophagus of birds.

PRECALCULATE
Pre*cal"cu*late, v. t.

Defn: To calculate or determine beforehand; to prearrange. Masson.

PRECANT
Pre"cant, n. Etym: [L. precans, -antis, p. pr. of precari to pray.]

Defn: One who prays. [R.] Coleridge.

PRECARIOUS
Pre*ca"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. precarius obtained by begging or prayer,
depending on request or on the will of another, fr. precari to pray,
beg. See Pray.]

1. Depending on the will or pleasure of another; held by courtesy;
liable to be changed or lost at the pleasure of another; as,
precarious privileges. Addison.

2. Held by a doubtful tenure; depending on unknown causes or events;
exposed to constant risk; not to be depended on for certainty or
stability; uncertain; as, a precarious state of health; precarious
fortunes. "Intervals of partial and precarious liberty." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Uncertain; unsettled; unsteady; doubtful; dubious; equivocal.
 -- Precarious, Uncertain. Precarious in stronger than uncertain.
Derived originally from the Latin precari, it first signified
"granted to entreaty," and, hence, "wholly dependent on the will of
another." Thus it came to express the highest species of uncertainty,
and is applied to such things as depend wholly on future casualties.
 -- Pre*ca"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Pre*ca"ri*ous*ness, n.

PRECATION
Pre*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. precatio.]

Defn: The act of praying; supplication; entreaty. Cotton.

PRECATIVE; PRECATORY
Pre"ca*tive, Pre"ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. precativus, precatorius, fr.
precari to pray. See Precarious.]

Defn: Suppliant; beseeching. Bp. Hopkins. Precatory words (Law),
words of recommendation, request, entreaty, wish, or expectation,
employed in wills, as distinguished from express directions; -- in
some cases creating a trust. Jarman.

PRECAUTION
Pre*cau"tion, n. Etym: [F. précation, L. praecautio, fr. praecavere,
praecautum, to guard against beforehand; prae before + cavere be on
one's guard. See Pre-, and Caution.]

1. Previous caution or care; caution previously employed to prevent
mischief or secure good; as, his life was saved by precaution.
They [ancient philosophers] treasured up their supposed discoveries
with miserable precaution. J. H. Newman.

2. A measure taken beforehand to ward off evil or secure good or
success; a precautionary act; as, to take precautions against
accident.

PRECAUTION
Pre*cau"tion, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. précautionner.]

1. To warn or caution beforehand. Locke.

2. To take precaution against. [R.] Dryden.

PRECAUTIONAL
Pre*cau"tion*al, a.

Defn: Precautionary.

PRECAUTIONARY
Pre*cau"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to precaution, or precautions; as,
precautionary signals.

PRECAUTIOUS
Pre*cau"tious, a.

Defn: Taking or using precaution; precautionary.
 -- Pre*cau"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Pre*cau"*tious*ness, n.

PRECEDANEOUS
Pre`ce*da"ne*ous, a.

Defn: Preceding; antecedent; previous. [Obs.] Hammond.

PRECEDE
Pre*cede", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preceded; p. pr. & vb. n. Preceding.]
Etym: [L. praecedere, praecessum; prae before + cedere to go, to be
in motion: cf. F. préceder. See Pre-, and Cede.]

1. To go before in order of time; to occur first with relation to
anything. "Harm precedes not sin." Milton.

2. To go before in place, rank, or importance.

3. To cause to be preceded; to preface; to introduce; -- used with by
or with before the instrumental object. [R.]
It is usual to precede hostilities by a public declaration. Kent.

PRECEDENCE; PRECEDENCY
Pre*ced"ence, Pre*ced"en*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. précédence. See
Precede.]

1. The act or state of preceding or going before in order of time;
priority; as, one event has precedence of another.

2. The act or state of going or being before in rank or dignity, or
the place of honor; right to a more honorable place; superior rank;
as, barons have precedence of commoners.
Which of them [the different desires] has the precedency in
determining the will to the next action Locke.

Syn.
 -- Antecedence; priority; preëminence; preference; superiority.

PRECEDENT
Pre*ced"ent, a. Etym: [L. praecedens, -entis, p. pr. of praecedere:
cf. F. précédent. See Precede.]

Defn: Going before; anterior; preceding; antecedent; as, precedent
services. Shak. "A precedent injury." Bacon. Condition precedent
(Law), a condition which precede the vesting of an estate, or the
accruing of a right.

PRECEDENT
Prec"e*dent, n.

1. Something done or said that may serve as an example to authorize a
subsequent act of the same kind; an authoritative example.
Examples for cases can but direct as precedents only. Hooker.

2. A preceding circumstance or condition; an antecedent; hence, a
prognostic; a token; a sign. [Obs.]

3. A rough draught of a writing which precedes a finished copy.
[Obs.] Shak.

4. (Law)

Defn: A judicial decision which serves as a rule for future
determinations in similar or analogous cases; an authority to be
followed in courts of justice; forms of proceeding to be followed in
similar cases. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- Example; antecedent.
 -- Precedent, Example. An example in a similar case which may serve
as a rule or guide, but has no authority out of itself. A precedent
is something which comes down to us from the past with the sanction
of usage and of common consent. We quote examples in literature, and
precedents in law.

PRECEDENTED
Prec"e*dent*ed, a.

Defn: Having a precedent; authorized or sanctioned by an example of a
like kind. Walpole.

PRECEDENTIAL
Prec`e*den"tial, a.

Defn: Of the nature of a precedent; having force as an example for
imitation; as, precedential transactions.
All their actions in that time are not precedential to warrant
posterity. Fuller.

PRECEDENTLY
Pre*ced"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: Beforehand; antecedently.

PRECEDING
Pre*ced"ing, a.

1. Going before; -- opposed to following.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: In the direction toward which stars appear to move. See
Following, 2.

PRECEL
Pre*cel", v. t. & i. Etym: [See Precellence.]

Defn: To surpass; to excel; to exceed. [Obs.] Howell.

PRECELLENCE; PRECELLENCY
Pre*cel"lence, Pre*cel"len*cy, n. Etym: [L. praecellentia, from
praecellens, p. pr. of praecellere to excel, surpass: cf. OF.
precellence.]

Defn: Excellence; superiority. [Obs.] Sheldon.

PRECELLENT
Pre*cel"lent, a. Etym: [L. praecellens, p. pr.]

Defn: Excellent; surpassing. [Obs.] Holland.

PRECENTOR
Pre*cen"tor, n. Etym: [L. praecentor, fr. praecinere to sing before;
prae before + canere to sing. See Chant.]

Defn: A leader of a choir; a directing singer. Specifically:
(a) The leader of the choir in a cathedral; -- called also the
chanter or master of the choir. Hook.
(b) The leader of the congregational singing in Scottish and other
churches.

PRECENTORSHIP
Pre*cen"tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a precentor.

PRECEPT
Pre"cept, n. Etym: [L. praeceptum, from praecipere to take
beforehand, to instruct, teach; prae before + capere to take: cf. F.
précepte. See Pre-, and Capacious.]

1. Any commandment, instruction, or order intended as an
authoritative rule of action; esp., a command respecting moral
conduct; an injunction; a rule.
For precept must be upon precept. Isa. xxviii. 10.
No arts are without their precepts. Dryden.

2. (Law)

Defn: A command in writing; a species of writ or process. Burrill.

Syn.
 -- Commandment; injunction; mandate; law; rule; direction;
principle; maxim. See Doctrine.

PRECEPT
Pre"cept, v. t.

Defn: To teach by precepts. [Obs.] Bacon.

PRECEPTIAL
Pre*cep"tial, a.

Defn: Preceptive. [Obs.]
[Passion] would give preceptial medicine to rage. Shak.

PRECEPTION
Pre*cep"tion, n. Etym: [L. praeceptio.]

Defn: A precept. [R.] Bp. Hall.

PRECEPTIVE
Pre*cep"tive, a. Etym: [L. praeceptivus.]

Defn: Containing or giving precepts; of the nature of precepts;
didactic; as, the preceptive parts of the Scriptures.
The lesson given us here is preceptive to us. L'Estrange.

PRECEPTOR
Pre*cep"tor, n. Etym: [L. praeceptor, fr. praecipere to teach: cf. F.
précepteur. See Precept.]

1. One who gives commands, or makes rules; specifically, the master
or principal of a school; a teacher; an instructor.

2. The head of a preceptory among the Knights Templars. Sir W. Scott.

PRECEPTORIAL
Pre`cep*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a preceptor.

PRECEPTORY
Pre*cep"to*ry, a.

Defn: Preceptive. "A law preceptory." Anderson (1573).

PRECEPTORY
Pre*cep"to*ry, n.; pl. Preceptories. Etym: [LL. praeceptoria an
estate assigned to a preceptor, from L. praeceptor a commander,
ruler, teacher, in LL., procurator, administrator among the Knights
Templars. See Preceptor.]

Defn: A religious house of the Knights Templars, subordinate to the
temple or principal house of the order in London. See Commandery, n.,
2.

PRECEPTRESS
Pre*cep"tress, n.

Defn: A woman who is the principal of a school; a female teacher.

PRECESSION
Pre*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. praecedere, praecessum, to go before: cf.
F. précession. See Precede.]

Defn: The act of going before, or forward. Lunisolar precession.
(Astron.) See under Lunisolar.
 -- Planetary precession, that part of the precession of the
equinoxes which depends on the action of the planets alone.
 -- Precession of the equinoxes (Astron.), the slow backward motion
of the equinoctial points along the ecliptic, at the rate of 50.2"
annually, caused by the action of the sun, moon, and planets, upon
the protuberant matter about the earth's equator, in connection with
its diurnal rotation; -- so called because either equinox, owing to
its westerly motion, comes to the meridian sooner each day than the
point it would have occupied without the motion of precession, and
thus precedes that point continually with reference to the time of
transit and motion.

PRECESSIONAL
Pre*ces"sion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to pression; as, the precessional movement of
the equinoxes.

PRECESSOR
Pre*ces"sor, n. Etym: [L. praecessor.]

Defn: A predecessor. [Obs.] Fuller.

PRECIEUSE
Pré`cieuse", n.

Defn: An affected woman of polite society, esp. one of the literary
women of the French salons of the 17th century.

PRECINCT
Pre"cinct, n. Etym: [LL. praecinctum, fr. L. praecingere,
praecinctum, to gird about, to encompass; prae before + cingere to
gird, surround. See Pre-, and Cincture.]

1. The limit or exterior line encompassing a place; a boundary; a
confine; limit of jurisdiction or authority; -- often in the plural;
as, the precincts of a state. "The precincts of light." Milton.

2. A district within certain boundaries; a minor territorial or
jurisdictional division; as, an election precinct; a school precinct.

3. A parish or prescribed territory attached to a church, and taxed
for its support. [U.S.]
The parish, or precinct, shall proceed to a new choice. Laws of
Massachusetts.

PRECIOSITY
Pre`ci*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: Preciousness; something precious. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

PRECIOUS
Pre"cious, a. Etym: [OF. precious, precius, precios, F. précieux, L.
pretiosus, fr. pretium price, worth, value. See Price.]

1. Of great price; costly; as, a precious stone. "The precious bane."
Milton.

2. Of great value or worth; very valuable; highly esteemed; dear;
beloved; as, precious recollections.
She is more precious than rules. Prov. iii. 15.
Many things which are most precious are neglected only because the
value of them lieth hid. Hooker.

Note: Also used ironically; as, a precious rascal.

3. Particular; fastidious; overnice. [Obs.]
Lest that precious folk be with me wroth. Chaucer.
Precious metals, the uncommon and highly valuable metals, esp. gold
and silver.
 -- Precious stones, gems; jewels.

PRECIOUSLY
Pre"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a precious manner; expensively; extremely; dearly. Also used
ironically.

PRECIOUSNESS
Pre"cious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being precious; costliness; dearness.

PRECIPE
Prec"i*pe, n. (Law)

Defn: See Præcipe, and Precept.

PRECIPICE
Prec"i*pice, n. Etym: [F. précipice, L. praecipitium, fr. praeceps, -
cipitis, headlong; prae before + caput, capitis, the head. See Pre-,
and Chief.]

1. A sudden or headlong fall. [Obs.] Fuller.

2. A headlong steep; a very steep, perpendicular, or overhanging
place; an abrupt declivity; a cliff.
Where wealth like fruit on precipices grew. Dryden.

PRECIPIENT
Pre*cip"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. praecipiens, p. pr. See Precept.]

Defn: Commanding; directing.

PRECIPITABILITY
Pre*cip`i*ta*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being precipitable.

PRECIPITABLE
Pre*cip"i*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being precipitated, or cast to the bottom, as a
substance in solution. See Precipitate, n. (Chem.)

PRECIPITANCE; PRECIPITANCY
Pre*cip"i*tance, Pre*cip"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [From Precipitant.]

Defn: The quality or state of being precipitant, or precipitate;
headlong hurry; excessive or rash haste in resolving, forming an
opinion, or executing a purpose; precipitation; as, the precipitancy
of youth. "Precipitance of judgment." I. Watts.

PRECIPITANT
Pre*cip"i*tant, a. Etym: [L. praecipitans, -antis, p. pr. of
praecipitare: cf. F. précipitant. See Precipitate.]

1. Falling or rushing headlong; rushing swiftly, violently, or
recklessly; moving precipitately.
They leave their little lives Above the clouds, precipitant to earth.
J. Philips.
Should he return, that troop so blithe and bold, Precipitant in fear
would wing their flight. Pope.

2. Unexpectedly or foolishly brought on or hastened; rashly hurried;
hasty; sudden; reckless. Jer. Taylor. "Precipitant rebellion." Eikon
Basilike.

PRECIPITANT
Pre*cip"i*tant, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any force or reagent which causes the formation of a
precipitate.

PRECIPITANTLY
Pre*cip"i*tant*ly, adv.

Defn: With rash or foolish haste; in headlong manner. Milton.

PRECIPITANTNESS
Pre*cip"i*tant*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being precipitant; precipitation.

PRECIPITATE
Pre*cip"i*tate, a. Etym: [L. praecipitatus, p. p. of praecipitare to
precipitate, fr. praeceps headlong. See Precipice.]

1. Overhasty; rash; as, the king was too precipitate in declaring
war. Clarendon.

2. Lacking due deliberation or care; hurried; said or done before the
time; as, a precipitate measure. "The rapidity of our too precipitate
course." Landor.

3. Falling, flowing, or rushing, with steep descent; headlong.
Precipitate the furious torrent flows. Prior.

4. Ending quickly in death; brief and fatal; as, a precipitate case
of disease. [Obs.] Arbuthnot.

PRECIPITATE
Pre*cip"i*tate, n. Etym: [NL. praecipitatum: cf. F. précipité.]
(Chem.)

Defn: An insoluble substance separated from a solution in a concrete
state by the action of some reagent added to the solution, or of some
force, such as heat or cold. The precipitate may fall to the bottom
(whence the name), may be diffused through the solution, or may float
at or near the surface. Red precipitate (Old. Chem), mercuric oxide
(HgO) a heavy red crystalline powder obtained by heating mercuric
nitrate, or by heating mercury in the air. Prepared in the latter
manner, it was the precipitate per se of the alchemists.
 -- White precipitate (Old Chem.) (a) A heavy white amorphous powder
(NH2.HgCl) obtained by adding ammonia to a solution of mercuric
chloride or corrosive sublimate; -- formerly called also infusible
white precipitate, and now amido-mercuric chloride. (b) A white
crystalline substance obtained by adding a solution of corrosive
sublimate to a solution of sal ammoniac (ammonium chloride); --
formerly called also fusible white precipitate.

PRECIPITATE
Pre*cip"i*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Precipitated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Precipitating.]

1. To throw headlong; to cast down from a precipice or height.
She and her horse had been precipitated to the pebbled region of the
river. W. Irving.

2. To urge or press on with eager haste or violence; to cause to
happen, or come to a crisis, suddenly or too soon; as, precipitate a
journey, or a conflict.
Back to his sight precipitates her steps. Glover.
If they be daring, it may precipitate their designs, and prove
dangerous. Bacon.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: To separate from a solution, or other medium, in the form of a
precipitate; as, water precipitates camphor when in solution with
alcohol.
The light vapor of the preceding evening had been precipitated by the
cold. W. Irving.

PRECIPITATE
Pre*cip"i*tate, v. i.

1. To dash or fall headlong. [R.]
So many fathom down precipitating. Shak.

2. To hasten without preparation. [R.]

3. (Chem.)

Defn: To separate from a solution as a precipitate. See Precipitate,
n.

PRECIPITATELY
Pre*cip"i*tate*ly, adv.

Defn: In a precipitate manner; headlong; hastily; rashly. Swift.

PRECIPITATION
Pre*cip`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. praecipitatio: cf. F. précipitation.]

1. The act of precipitating, or the state of being precipitated, or
thrown headlong.
In peril of precipitation From off rock Tarpeian. Shak.

2. A falling, flowing, or rushing downward with violence and
rapidity.
The hurry, precipitation, and rapid motion of the water, returning .
. . towards the sea. Woodward.

3. Great hurry; rash, tumultuous haste; impetuosity. "The
precipitation of inexperience." Rambler.

4. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process from a solution.

PRECIPITATOR
Pre*cip"i*ta`tor, n. Etym: [L. praecipitator an overthrower.]

Defn: One who precipitates, or urges on with vehemence or rashness.
Hammond.

PRECIPITIOUS
Prec`i*pi"tious, a.

Defn: Precipitous. [Obs.] -- Prec`i*pi"tious*ly, adv. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

PRECIPITOUS
Pre*cip"i*tous, a. Etym: [L. praeceps, -cipitis: cf. OF. precipiteux.
See Precipice.]

1. Steep, like a precipice; as, a precipitous cliff or mountain.

2. Headlong; as, precipitous fall.

3. Hasty; rash; quick; sudden; precipitate; as, precipitous attempts.
Sir T. Browne. "Marian's low, precipitous `Hush!'" Mrs. Browning.
 -- Pre*cip"i*tous*ly, adv.
 -- Pre*cip"i*tous*ness, n.

PRECIS
Pre`cis", n. Etym: [F. See Precise.]

Defn: A concise or abridged statement or view; an abstract; a
summary.

PRECISE
Pre*cise", a. Etym: [L. praecisus cut off, brief, concise, p. p. of
praecidere to cut off in front, to cut off; prae before + caedere to
cut: cf. F. précis. Cf. Concise.]

1. Having determinate limitations; exactly or sharply defined or
stated; definite; exact; nice; not vague or equivocal; as, precise
rules of morality.
The law in this point is not precise. Bacon.
For the hour precise Exacts our parting hence. Milton.

2. Strictly adhering or conforming to rule; very nice or exact;
punctilious in conduct or ceremony; formal; ceremonious. Addison.
He was ever precise in promise-keeping. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Accurate; exact; definite; correct; scrupulous; punctilious;
particular; nice; formal. See Accurate.
 -- Pre*cise"ly, adv.
 -- Pre*cise"ness, n.

PRECISIAN
Pre*ci"sian, n.

1. One who limits, or restrains. [Obs.]

2. An overprecise person; one rigidly or ceremoniously exact in the
observance of rules; a formalist; -- formerly applied to the English
Puritans.
The most dissolute cavaliers stood aghast at the dissoluteness of the
emancipated precisian. Macaulay.

PRECISIANISM
Pre*ci"sian*ism, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being a precisian; the practice of a
precisian. Milton.

PRECISIANIST
Pre*ci"sian*ist, n.

Defn: A precisian.

PRECISION
Pre*ci"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. précision, L. praecisio a cutting off.
See Precise.]

Defn: The quality or state of being precise; exact limitation;
exactness; accuracy; strict conformity to a rule or a standard;
definiteness.
I have left out the utmost precisions of fractions. Locke.

Syn.
 -- Preciseness; exactness; accuracy; nicety.
 -- Precision, Preciseness. Precision is always used in a good sense;
as, precision of thought or language; precision in military
evolutions. Preciseness is sometimes applied to persons or their
conduct in a disparaging sense, and precise is often used in the same
way.

PRECISIVE
Pre*ci"sive, a.

Defn: Cutting off; (Logic) exactly limiting by cutting off all that
is not absolutely relative to the purpose; as, precisive censure;
precisive abstraction. I. Watts.

PRECLUDE
Pre*clude", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Precluded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Precluding.] Etym: [L. praecludere, praeclusum; prae before +
claudere to shut. See Close, v.]

1. To put a barrier before; hence, to shut out; to hinder; to stop;
to impede.
The valves preclude the blood from entering the veins. E. Darwin.

2. To shut out by anticipative action; to prevent or hinder by
necessary consequence or implication; to deter action of, access to,
employment of, etc.; to render ineffectual; to obviate by
anticipation.
This much will obviate and preclude the objections. Bentley.

PRECLUSION
Pre*clu"sion, n. Etym: [L. praeclusio. See Preclude.]

Defn: The act of precluding, or the state of being precluded; a
shutting out.

PRECLUSIVE
Pre*clu"sive, a.

Defn: Shutting out; precluding, or tending to preclude; hindering.
 -- Pre*clu"sive*ly, adv.

PRECOCE
Pre*coce", a. Etym: [F. précoce.]

Defn: Precocious. [Obs.]

PRECOCES
Pre"co*ces, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Præcoces.

PRECOCIOUS
Pre*co"cious, a. Etym: [L. praecox, -ocis, and praecoquus, fr.
praecoquere to cook or ripen beforehand; prae before + coquere to
cook. See 3d Cook, and cf. Apricot.]

1. Ripe or mature before the proper or natural time; early or
prematurely ripe or developed; as, precocious trees. [R.] Sir T.
Browne.

2. Developed more than is natural or usual at a given age; exceeding
what is to be expected of one's years; too forward; -- used
especially of mental forwardness; as, a precocious child; precocious
talents.

PRECOCIOUSLY
Pre*co"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a precocious manner.

PRECOCIOUSNESS; PRECOCITY
Pre*co"cious*ness, Pre*coc"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. précocité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being precocious; untimely ripeness;
premature development, especially of the mental powers; forwardness.
Saucy precociousness in learning. Bp. Mannyngham.
That precocity which sometimes distinguishes uncommon genius. Wirt.

PRECOETANEAN
Pre*co`e*ta"ne*an, n.

Defn: One contemporary with, but older than, another. [Obs.] Fuller.

PRECOGITATE
Pre*cog"i*tate, v. t. Etym: [L. praecogitatus, p. p. of praecogitare.
See Pre-, and Cogitate.]

Defn: To cogitate beforehand. [R.] Sherwood.

PRECOGITATION
Pre*cog`i*tation, n. Etym: [L. praecogitatio.]

Defn: Previous cogitation. [R.] Bailey.

PRECOGNITION
Pre`cog*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. praecognitio, fr. praecognoscere to
foreknow. See Pre-, and Cognition.]

1. Previous cognition. Fotherby.

2. (Scots Law)

Defn: A preliminary examination of a criminal case with reference to
a prosecution. Erskine.

PRECOGNIZABLE
Pre*cog"ni*za*ble, a.

Defn: Cognizable beforehand.

PRECOGNOSCE
Pre*cog"nosce, v. t. Etym: [L. praecognoscere to foreknow.] (Scots
Law)

Defn: To examine beforehand, as witnesses or evidence.
A committee of nine precognoscing the chances. Masson.

PRECOLLECTION
Pre`col*lec"tion, n.

Defn: A collection previously made. [R.]

PRECOMPOSE
Pre`com*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Precomposed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Precomposing.]

Defn: To compose beforehand. Johnson.

PRECONCEIT
Pre`con*ceit", n.

Defn: An opinion or notion formed beforehand; a preconception.
Hooker.

PRECONCEIVE
Pre`con*ceive", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preconceived; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preconceiving.]

Defn: To conceive, or form an opinion of, beforehand; to form a
previous notion or idea of.
In a dead plain the way seemeth the longer, because the eye hath
preconceived it shorter than the truth. Bacon.

PRECONCEPTION
Pre`con*cep"tion, n.

Defn: The act of preconceiving; conception or opinion previously
formed.

PRECONCERT
Pre`con*cert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preconcerted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preconcerting.]

Defn: To concert or arrange beforehand; to settle by previous
agreement.

PRECONCERT
Pre*con"cert, n.

Defn: Something concerted or arranged beforehand; a previous
agreement.

PRECONCERTED
Pre`con*cert"ed, a.

Defn: Previously arranged; agreed upon beforehand.
 -- Pre`con*cert"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Pre`con*cert"ed*ness, n.

PRECONCERTION
Pre`con*cer"tion, n.

Defn: The act of preconcerting; preconcert. Dr. T. Dwight.

PRECONDEMN
Pre`con*demn`, v. t.

Defn: To condemn beforehand.
 -- Pre*con`dem*na"tion, n.

PRECONDITION
Pre`con*di"tion, n.

Defn: A previous or antecedent condition; a preliminary condition.

PRECONFORM
Pre`con*form", v. t. & i.

Defn: To conform by way anticipation. De Quincey.

PRECONFORMITY
Pre`con*form"i*ty, n.

Defn: Anticipative or antecedent conformity. Coleridge.

PRECONIZATE
Pre*con"i*zate, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. préconiser.]

Defn: To proclaim; to publish; also, to summon; to call. [Obs.] Bp.
Burnet.

PRECONIZATION
Pre*con`i*za"tion, n. Etym: [L. praeconium a crying out in public,
fr. praeco, -onis, a crier, a herald: cf. F. préconisation.]

1. A publishing by proclamation; a public proclamation. Bp. Hall.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A formal approbation by the pope of a person nominated to an
ecclesiastical dignity. Addis & Arnold.

PRECONIZE
Pre"con*ize, v. t. (Eccl.)

Defn: To approve by preconization.

PRECONQUER
Pre*con"quer, v. t.

Defn: To conquer in anticipation. [R.] Fuller.

PRECONSCIOUS
Pre*con""scious, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a state before consciousness.

PRECONSENT
Pre`con*sent", n.

Defn: A previous consent.

PRECONSIGN
Pre`con*sign", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preconsigned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preconsigning.]

Defn: To consign beforehand; to make a previous consignment of.

PRECONSOLIDATED
Pre`con*sol"i*da`ted, a.

Defn: Consolidated beforehand.

PRECONSTITUTE
Pre*con"sti*tute, v. t.

Defn: To constitute or establish beforehand.

PRECONTRACT
Pre`con*tract", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Precontracted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Precontracting.]

Defn: To contract, engage, or stipulate previously.

PRECONTRACT
Pre`con*tract", v. i.

Defn: To make a previous contract or agreement. Ayliffe.

PRECONTRACT
Pre*con"tract, n.

Defn: A contract preceding another; especially (Law),

Defn: a contract of marriage which, according to the ancient law,
rendered void a subsequent marriage solemnized in violation of it.
Abbott.

PRECONTRIVE
Pre`con*trive", v. t. & i.

Defn: To contrive or plan beforehand.

PRECORACOID
Pre*cor"a*coid, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The anterior part of the coracoid (often closely united with
the clavicle) in the shoulder girdle of many reptiles and amphibians.

PRECORDIAL
Pre*cor"di*al, a. Etym: [Pref. pre- + L. cor, cordis, heart: cf. F.
précordial.] (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of the heart; of or pertaining to the
præcordia.

PRECRURAL
Pre*cru"ral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of the leg or thigh; as, the precrural glands
of the horse.

PRECURRER
Pre*cur"rer, n.

Defn: A precursor. [Obs.] Shak.

PRECURSE
Pre*curse", n. Etym: [L. praecursus.]

Defn: A forerunning. [Obs.] Shak.

PRECURSIVE
Pre*cur"sive, a.

Defn: Preceding; introductory; precursory. "A deep precursive sound."
Coleridge.

PRECURSOR
Pre*cur"sor, n. Etym: [L. praecursor, fr. praecurrere to run before;
prae before + currere to run. See Course.]

Defn: One who, or that which, precedes an event, and indicates its
approach; a forerunner; a harbinger.
Evil thoughts are the invisible, airy precursors of all the storms
and tempests of the soul. Buckminster.

Syn.
 -- Predecessor; forerunner; harbinger; messenger; omen; sign.

PRECURSORSHIP
Pre*cur"sor*ship, n.

Defn: The position or condition of a precursor. Ruskin.

PRECURSORY
Pre*cur"so*ry, a. Etym: [L. praecursorius.]

Defn: Preceding as a precursor or harbinger; indicating something to
follow; as, precursory symptoms of a fever.

PRECURSORY
Pre*cur"so*ry, n.

Defn: An introduction. [Obs.]

PREDACEAN
Pre*da"cean, n. Etym: [L. praeda prey.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous animal. Kirby.

PREDACEOUS
Pre*da"ceous, a. Etym: [L. praeda prey. See Prey.]

Defn: Living by prey; predatory. Derham.

PREDAL
Pre"dal, a. Etym: [L. praeda prey.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to prey; plundering; predatory. [R.] Boyse.

PREDATE
Pre*date", v. t.

Defn: To date anticipation; to affix to (a document) an earlier than
the actual date; to antedate; as, a predated deed or letter.

PREDATION
Pre*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. praedatio, fr. praedari to plunder.]

Defn: The act of pillaging. E. Hall.

PREDATORILY
Pred"a*to*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a predatory manner.

PREDATORY
Pred"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. praedatorius, fr. praedari to plunder, fr.
praeda prey. See Prey.]

1. Characterized by plundering; practicing rapine; plundering;
pillaging; as, a predatory excursion; a predatory party. "A predatory
war." Macaulay.

2. Hungry; ravenous; as, predatory spirits. [Obs.]
Exercise . . . maketh the spirits more hot and predatory. Bacon.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Living by preying upon other animals; carnivorous.

PREDE
Prede, v. i. Etym: [L. praedari. See Prey.]

Defn: To prey; to plunder. [Obs.] Holinshed.

PREDE
Prede, n.

Defn: Prey; plunder; booty. [Obs.] Holinshed.

PREDECAY
Pre"de*cay`, n.

Defn: Premature decay.

PREDECEASE
Pre`de*cease, v. t.

Defn: To die sooner than. "If children predecease progenitors." Shak.

PREDECEASE
Pre"de*cease`, n.

Defn: The death of one person or thing before another. [R.] Brougham.

PREDECESSIVE
Pred`e*ces"sive, a.

Defn: Going before; preceding. "Our predecessive students."
Massinger.

PREDECESSOR
Pred`e*ces"sor, n. Etym: [L. praedecessor; prae before + decessor one
who withdraws from the province he has governed, a retiring officer
(with reference to his successor), a predecessor, fr. decedere: cf.
F. prédécesseur. See Decease.]

Defn: One who precedes; one who has preceded another in any state,
position, office, etc.; one whom another follows or comes after, in
any office or position.
A prince who was as watchful as his predecessor had been over the
interests of the state. Prescott.

PREDECLARE
Pre`de*clare", v. t.

Defn: To declare or announce beforehand; to preannounce. Milman.

PREDEDICATION
Pre*ded`i*ca"tion, n.

Defn: A dedication made previously or beforehand.

PREDEFINE
Pre`de*fine, v. t.

Defn: To define beforehand.

PREDELIBERATION
Pre`de*lib`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: Previous deliberation.

PREDELINEATION
Pre`de*lin`e*a"tion, n.

Defn: Previous delineation.

PREDELLA
Pre*del"la, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: The step, or raised secondary part, of an altar; a superaltar;
hence, in Italian painting, a band or frieze of several pictures
running along the front of a superaltar, or forming a border or frame
at the foot of an altarpiece.

PREDESIGN
Pre`de*sign", v. t.

Defn: To design or purpose beforehand; to predetermine. Mitford.

PREDESIGNATE
Pre*des"ig*nate, a. (Logic)

Defn: A term used by Sir William Hamilton to define propositions
having their quantity indicated by a verbal sign; as, all, none,
etc.; -- contrasted with preindesignate, defining propositions of
which the quantity is not so indicated.

PREDESTINARIAN
Pre*des`ti*na"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to predestination; as, the predestinarian
controversy. Waterland.

PREDESTINARIAN
Pre*des`ti*na"ri*an, n.

Defn: One who believes in or supports the doctrine of predestination.
Dr. H. More.

PREDESTINARIANISM
Pre*des`ti*na"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: The system or doctrine of the predestinarians.

PREDESTINARY
Pre*des"ti*na*ry, a.

Defn: Predestinarian. [Obs.] Heylin.

PREDESTINATE
Pre*des"ti*nate, a. Etym: [L. praedestinatus, p. p. of praedestinare
to predestine; prae before + destinare to determine. See Destine.]

Defn: Predestinated; foreordained; fated. "A predestinate scratched
face." Shak.

PREDESTINATE
Pre*des"ti*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Predestinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Predestinating.] Etym: [Cf. Predestine.]

Defn: To predetermine or foreordain; to appoint or ordain beforehand
by an unchangeable purpose or decree; to preëlect.
Whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the
image of his Son. Rom. viii. 29.

Syn.
 -- To predetermine; foreordain; preordain; decree; predestine;
foredoom.

PREDESTINATION
Pre*des`ti*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. praedestinatio: cf. F.
prédestination.]

1. The act of predestinating.
Predestination had overruled their will. Milton.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: The purpose of Good from eternity respecting all events;
especially, the preordination of men to everlasting happiness or
misery. See Calvinism.

PREDESTINATIVE
Pre*des"ti*na*tive, a.

Defn: Determining beforehand; predestinating. [R.] Coleridge.

PREDESTINATOR
Pre*des"ti*na`tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. prédestinateur.]

1. One who predestinates, or foreordains.

2. One who holds to the doctrine of predestination; a predestinarian.
Cowley.

PREDESTINE
Pre*des"tine, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Predestined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Predestining.] Etym: [Cf. F. prédestiner. See Predestinate.]

Defn: To decree beforehand; to foreordain; to predestinate. Young.

PREDESTINY
Pre*des"ti*ny, n.

Defn: Predestination. [Obs.]

PREDETERMINABLE
Pre`de*ter"mi*na*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being determined beforehand. Coleridge.

PREDETERMINATE
Pre`de*ter"mi*nate, a.

Defn: Determined beforehand; as, the predeterminate counsel of God.