

PREDETERMINATION
Pre`de*ter`mi*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. prédétermination.]

Defn: The act of previous determination; a purpose formed beforehand;
as, the predetermination of God's will. Hammond.

PREDETERMINE
Pre`de*ter"mine, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Predetermined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Predermining.] Etym: [Pref. pre- + determine: cf. F. prédéterminer.]

1. To determine (something) beforehand. Sir M. Hale.

2. To doom by previous decree; to foredoom.

PREDETERMINE
Pre`de*ter"mine, v. i.

Defn: To determine beforehand.

PREDIAL
Pre"di*al, a. Etym: [L. praedium a farm, estate: cf. F. prédial.]

1. Consisting of land or farms; landed; as, predial estate; that is,
real estate. Ayliffe.

2. Attached to land or farms; as, predial slaves.

3. Issuing or derived from land; as, predial tithes.

PREDIASTOLIC
Pre*di`as*tol"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Preceding the diastole of the heart; as, a prediastolic
friction sound.

PREDICABILITY
Pred`i*ca*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being predicable, or affirmable of
something, or attributed to something. Reid.

PREDICABLE
Pred"i*ca*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. prédicable, L. praedicabilis
praiseworthy. See Predicate.]

Defn: Capable of being predicated or affirmed of something;
affirmable; attributable.

PREDICABLE
Pred"i*ca*ble, n.

1. Anything affirmable of another; especially, a general attribute or
notion as affirmable of, or applicable to, many individuals.

2. (Logic)

Defn: One of the five most general relations of attributes involved
in logical arrangements, namely, genus, species, difference,
property, and accident.

PREDICAMENT
Pre*dic"a*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. prédicament, L. praedicamentum. See
Predicate.]

1. A class or kind described by any definite marks; hence, condition;
particular situation or state; especially, an unfortunate or trying
position or condition. "O woeful sympathy; piteous predicament!"
Shak.

2. (Logic)

Defn: See Category.

Syn.
 -- Category; condition; state; plight.

PREDICAMENTAL
Pre*dic`a*men"tal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a predicament. John Hall (1646).

PREDICANT
Pred"i*cant, a. Etym: [L. praedicans, -antis, p. pr. of praedicare.
See Predicate.]

Defn: Predicating; affirming; declaring; proclaiming; hence;
preaching. "The Roman predicant orders." N. Brit. Rev.

PREDICANT
Pred"i*cant, n.

Defn: One who predicates, affirms, or proclaims; specifically, a
preaching friar; a Dominican.

PREDICATE
Pred"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Predicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Predicating.] Etym: [L. praedicatus, p. p. of praedicare to cry in
public, to proclaim. See Preach.]

1. To assert to belong to something; to affirm (one thing of
another); as, to predicate whiteness of snow.

2. To found; to base. [U.S.]

Note: Predicate is sometimes used in the United States for found or
base; as, to predicate an argument on certain principles; to
predicate a statement on information received. Predicate is a term in
logic, and used only in a single case, namely, when we affirm one
thing of another. "Similitude is not predicated of essences or
substances, but of figures and qualities only." Cudworth.

PREDICATE
Pred"i*cate, v. i.

Defn: To affirm something of another thing; to make an affirmation.
Sir M. Hale.

PREDICATE
Pred"i*cate, n. Etym: [L. praedicatum, neut. of praedicatus, p. p.
praedicare: cf. F. prédicat. See Predicate, v. t.]

1. (Logic)

Defn: That which is affirmed or denied of the subject. In these
propositions, "Paper is white," "Ink is not white," whiteness is the
predicate affirmed of paper and denied of ink.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: The word or words in a proposition which express what is
affirmed of the subject.

Syn.
 -- Affirmation; declaration.

PREDICATE
Pred"i*cate, a. Etym: [L. praedicatus, p. p.]

Defn: Predicated.

PREDICATION
Pred`i*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. praedicatio: cf. F. prédication.]

1. The act of predicating, or of affirming one thing of another;
affirmation; assertion. Locke.

2. Preaching. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer.

PREDICATIVE
Pred"i*ca*tive, a. Etym: [L. praedicativus.]

Defn: Expressing affirmation or predication; affirming; predicating,
as, a predicative term.
 -- Pred"i*ca*tive*ly, adv.

PREDICATORY
Pred"i*ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. L. praedicatorius praising.]

Defn: Affirmative; positive. Bp. Hall.

PREDICROTIC
Pre`di*crot"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: A term applied to the pulse wave sometimes seen in a pulse
curve or sphygmogram, between the apex of the curve and the dicrotic
wave.
The predicrotic or tidal wave is best marked in a hard pulse, i. e.,
where the blood pressure is high. Landois & Stirling.

PREDICT
Pre*dict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Predicted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Predicting.] Etym: [L. praedictus, p. p. of praedicere to predict;
prae before + dicere to say, tell. See Diction, and cf. Preach.]

Defn: To tell or declare beforehand; to foretell; to prophesy; to
presage; as, to predict misfortune; to predict the return of a comet.

Syn.
 -- To foretell; prophesy; prognosticate; presage; forebode;
foreshow; bode.

PREDICT
Pre*dict", n.

Defn: A prediction. [Obs.] Shak.

PREDICTABLE
Pre*dict"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be predicted.

PREDICTION
Pre*dic"tion, n. Etym: [L. praedictio: cf. F. prédiction.]

Defn: The act of foretelling; also, that which is foretold; prophecy.
The predictions of cold and long winters. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Prophecy; prognostication; foreboding; augury; divination;
soothsaying; vaticination.

PREDICTIONAL
Pre*dic"tion*al, a.

Defn: Prophetic; prognostic. [R.]

PREDICTIVE
Pre*dict"ive, a. Etym: [L. praedictivus.]

Defn: Foretelling; prophetic; foreboding.
 -- Pre*dict"ive*ly, adv.

PREDICTOR
Pre*dict"or, n.

Defn: One who predicts; a foreteller.

PREDICTORY
Pre*dict"o*ry, a.

Defn: Predictive. [R.] Fuller.

PREDIGEST
Pre`di*gest", v. t. (Med.)

Defn: To subject (food) to predigestion or artificial digestion.

PREDIGESTION
Pre`di*ges"tion, n.

1. Digestion too soon performed; hasty digestion. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Artificial digestion of food for use in illness or impaired
digestion.

PREDILECT
Pre`di*lect", v. t.

Defn: To elect or choose beforehand. [R.] Walter Harte.

PREDILECTION
Pre`di*lec"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. pre- + L. dilectus, p. p. diligere
to prefer: cf. F. prédilection. See Diligent.]

Defn: A previous liking; a prepossession of mind in favor of
something; predisposition to choose or like; partiality. Burke.

PREDISCOVER
Pre`dis*cov"er, v. t.

Defn: To discover beforehand.

PREDISCOVERY
Pre`dis*cov"er*y, n.

Defn: A previous discovery.

PREDISPONENCY
Pre`dis*po"nen*cy, n.

Defn: The state of being predisposed; predisposition. [R.]

PREDISPONENT
Pre`dis*po"nent, a.

Defn: Disposing beforehand; predisposing.
 -- n.

Defn: That which predisposes. Predisponent causes. (Med.) See
Predisposing causes, under Predispose. Dunglison.

PREDISPOSE
Pre`dis*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Predisposed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Predisposing.] Etym: [Pref. pre- + dispose: cf. F. prédisposer.]

1. To dispose or incline beforehand; to give a predisposition or bias
to; as, to predispose the mind to friendship.

2. To make fit or susceptible beforehand; to give a tendency to; as,
debility predisposes the body to disease. Predisposing causes (Med.),
causes which render the body liable to disease; predisponent causes.

PREDISPOSITION
Pre*dis`po*si"tion, n.Etym: [Pref. pre- + disposition: cf. F.
prédisposition.]

1. The act of predisposing, or the state of being predisposed;
previous inclination, tendency, or propensity; predilection; --
applied to the mind; as, a predisposition to anger.

2. Previous fitness or adaptation to any change, impression, or
purpose; susceptibility; -- applied to material things; as, the
predisposition of the body to disease.

PREDOMINANCE
Pre*dom"i*nance, n. Etym: [Cf. F. prédominance.]

1. The quality or state of being predominant; superiority;
ascendency; prevalence; predomination.
The predominance of conscience over interest. South.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: The superior influence of a planet. Shak.

PREDOMINANCY
Pre*dom"i*nan*cy, n.

Defn: Predominance. Bacon.

PREDOMINANT
Pre*dom"i*nant, a. Etym: [Cf. F. prédominant. See Predominante.]

Defn: Having the ascendency over others; superior in strength,
influence, or authority; prevailing; as, a predominant color;
predominant excellence.
Those help . . . were predominant in the king's mind. Bacon.
Foul subordination is predominant. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Prevalent; superior; prevailing; ascendant; ruling; reigning;
controlling; overruling.

PREDOMINANTLY
Pre*dom"i*nant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a predominant manner.

PREDOMINATE
Pre*dom"i*nate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Predominated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Predominating.] Etym: [Pref. pre- + dominate: cf. F. prédominer.]

Defn: To be superior in number, strength, influence, or authority; to
have controlling power or influence; to prevail; to rule; to have the
mastery; as, love predominated in her heart.
[Certain] rays may predominate over the rest. Sir. I. Newton.

PREDOMINATE
Pre*dom"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To rule over; to overpower. [R.]

PREDOMINATION
Pre*dom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. prédomination.]

Defn: The act or state of predominating; ascendency; predominance. W.
Browne.

PREDOOM
Pre*doom", v. t.

Defn: To foredoom.

PREDORSAL
Pre*dor"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of the back; immediately in front, or on the
ventral side the dorsal part of the vertebral column.

PREDY
Pre"dy, a. Etym: [Cf. F. prêt ready.]

Defn: Cleared and ready for engagement, as a ship. Smart.

PREEDY
Preed"y, adv.

Defn: With ease. [Prov. Eng.]

PREEF
Preef, n.

Defn: Proof. [Obs.] Chaucer.

PREELECT
Pre`ë*lect", v. t.

Defn: To elect beforehand.

PREELECTION
Pre`ë*lec"tion, n.

Defn: Election beforehand.

PREEMINENCE
Pre*ëm"i*nence, n. Etym: [F. pré\'82minence, L. praeeminentia. See
Preëminent.]

Defn: The quality or state of being preëminent; superiority in
prominence or in excellence; distinction above others in quality,
rank, etc.; rarely, in a bad sense, superiority or notoriety in evil;
as, preëminence in honor.
The preëminence of Christianity to any other religious scheme.
Addison.
Painful preëminence! yourself to view Above life's weakness, and its
comforts too. Pope.
Beneath the forehead's walled preëminence. Lowell.

PREEMINENT
Pre*ëm"i*nent, a. Etym: [L. praeminens, -entis, p. pr. praeminere to
be prominent, to surpass: cf. F. pré\'82minent. See Pre-, and
Eminent.]

Defn: Eminent above others; prominent among those who are eminent;
superior in excellence; surpassing, or taking precedence of, others;
rarely, surpassing others in evil, or in bad qualities; as,
preëminent in guilt.
In goodness and in power preëminent. Milton.

PREEMINENTLY
Pre*ëm"i*nent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a preëminent degree.

PREEMPLOY
Pre`ëm*ploy, v. t.

Defn: To employ beforehand. "Preëmployed by him." Shak.

PREEMPT
Pre*ëmpt", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Preëmpted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preëmpting.] Etym: [See Preëmption.]

Defn: To settle upon (public land) with a right of preemption, as
under the laws of the United States; to take by preëmption.

PREEMPTION
Pre*ëmp"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. pre- + emption: cf. F. préemption. See
Redeem.]

Defn: The act or right of purchasing before others. Specifically:
(a) The privilege or prerogative formerly enjoyed by the king of
buying provisions for his household in preference to others. [Eng.]
(b) The right of an actual settler upon public lands (particularly
those of the United States) to purchase a certain portion at a fixed
price in preference to all other applicants. Abbott.

PREEMPTIONER
Pre*ëmp"tion*er, n.

Defn: One who holds a prior to purchase certain public land. Abbott.

PREEMPTIVE
Pre*ëmp"tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to preëmption; having power to preëmpt;
preëmpting.

PREEMPTOR
Pre*ëmpt"or, n. Etym: [Cf. L. praeemptor.]

Defn: One who preëmpts; esp., one who preëmpts public land.

PREEMPTORY
Pre*ëmpt"o*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to preëmption.

PREEN
Preen, n. Etym: [AS. preón a clasp, bodkin; akin to D. priem punch,
bodkin, awl, G. pfriem, Icel. prjonn a knitting needle, pin, Dan.
preen a bodkin, punch.]

Defn: A forked tool used by clothiers in dressing cloth.

PREEN
Preen, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preened; p. pr. & vb. n. Preening.] Etym:
[See Preen, n.; or cf. Prune.]

1. To dress with, or as with, a preen; to trim or dress with the
beak, as the feathers; -- said of birds. Derham.

2. To trim up, as trees. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

PREENGAGE
Pre`ën*gage", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preëngaged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preëngaging.]

Defn: To engage by previous contract; to bind or attach previously;
to preoccupy.
But he was preëngaged by former ties. Dryden.

PREENGAGEMENT
Pre`ën*gage"ment, n.

Defn: Prior engagement, obligation, or attachment, as by contract,
promise, or affection.
My preëngagements to other themes were not unknown to those for whom
I was to write. Boyle.

PREERECT
Pre`ë*rect", v. t.

Defn: To erect beforehand.

PREES
Prees, n.

Defn: Press; throng. [Obs.] Chaucer.

PREESTABLISH
Pre`ës*tab"lish, v. t.

Defn: To establish beforehand.

PREESTABLISHMENT
Pre`ës*tab"lish*ment, n.

Defn: Settlement beforehand.

PREETERNITY
Pre`ë*ter"ni*ty, n.

Defn: Infinite previous duration. [R.] "The world's preëternity."
Cudworth.

PREEXAMINATION
Pre`ëx*am`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: Previous examination.

PREEXAMINE
Pre`ëx*am"ine, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preëxamined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preëxamining.]

Defn: To examine beforehand.

PREEXIST
Pre`ëx*ist", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Preëxisted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preëxisting.]

Defn: To exist previously; to exist before something else.

PREEXISTENCE
Pre`ëx*ist"ence, n.

1. Existence in a former state, or previous to something else.
Wisdom declares her antiquity and preëxistence to all the works of
this earth. T. Burnet.

2. Existence of the soul before its union with the body; -- a
doctrine held by certain philosophers. Addison.

PREEXISTENCY
Pre`ëx*ist"en*cy, n.

Defn: Preëxistence. [Obs.]

PREEXISTENT
Pre`ëx*ist"ent, a.

Defn: Existing previously; preceding existence; as, a preëxistent
state. Pope.

PREEXISTENTISM
Pre`ëx*ist"ent*ism, n. (Philos.)

Defn: The theory of a preëxistence of souls before their association
with human bodies. Emerson.

PREEXISTIMATION
Pre`ëx*is`ti*ma"tion, n.

Defn: Previous esteem or estimation. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

PREEXPECTATION
Pre*ëx`pec*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Previous expectation.

PREFACE
Pref"ace (; 48), n. Etym: [F. préface; cf. Sp. prefacio, prefacion,
It. prefazio, prefazione; all fr. L. praefatio, fr. praefari to speak
or say beforehand; prae before + fari, fatus, to speak. See Fate.]

1. Something spoken as introductory to a discourse, or written as
introductory to a book or essay; a proem; an introduction, or series
of preliminary remarks.
This superficial tale Is but a preface of her worthy praise. Shak.
Heaven's high behest no preface needs. Milton.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The prelude or introduction to the canon of the Mass. Addis &
Arnold. Proper preface (Ch. of Eng. & Prot. Epis. Ch.), a portion of
the communion service, preceding the prayer of consecration,
appointed for certain seasons.

Syn.
 -- Introduction; preliminary; preamble; proem; prelude; prologue.

PREFACE
Pref"ace, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prefaced; p. pr. & vb. n. Prefacing.]

Defn: To introduce by a preface; to give a preface to; as, to preface
a book discourse.

PREFACE
Pref"ace, v. i.

Defn: To make a preface. Jer. Taylor.

PREFACER
Pref"a*cer, n.

Defn: The writer of a preface.

PREFATORIAL
Pref`a*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Prefatory.

PREFATORILY
Pref"a*to*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a prefatory manner; by way of preface.

PREFATORY
Pref"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a preface; introductory to
a book, essay, or discourse; as, prefatory remarks.
That prefatory addition to the Creed. Dryden.

PREFECT
Pre"fect, n. Etym: [L. praefectus, fr. praefectus, p. p. of
praeficere to set over; prae before + facere to make: cf. F. préfet.]

1. A Roman officer who controlled or superintended a particular
command, charge, department, etc.; as, the prefect of the aqueducts;
the prefect of a camp, of a fleet, of the city guard, of provisions;
the pretorian prefect, who was commander of the troops guarding the
emperor's person.

2. A superintendent of a department who has control of its police
establishment, together with extensive powers of municipal
regulation. [France] Brande & C.

3. In the Greek and Roman Catholic churches, a title of certain
dignitaries below the rank of bishop. Apostolic prefect (R. C. Ch.),
the head of a mission, not of episcopal rank. Shipley.

PREFECTORIAL
Pre`fec*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a prefect.

PREFECTSHIP
Pre"fect*ship, n.

Defn: The office or jurisdiction of a prefect.

PREFECTURE
Pre"fec*ture, n. Etym: [L. praefectura: cf. F. préfecture.]

Defn: The office, position, or jurisdiction of a prefect; also, his
official residence.

PREFECUNDATION
Pre*fec`un*da"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: A term collectively applied to the changes or conditions
preceding fecundation, especially to the changes which the ovum
undergoes before fecundation.

PREFECUNDATORY
Pre`fe*cun"da*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to prefecundation.

PREFER
Pre*fer", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preferred; p. pr. & vb. n. Preferring.]
Etym: [F. préférer, L. praeferre; prae before + ferre to bear or
carry. See 1st Bear.]

1. To carry or bring (something) forward, or before one; hence, to
bring for consideration, acceptance, judgment, etc.; to offer; to
present; to proffer; to address; -- said especially of a request,
prayer, petition, claim, charge, etc.
He spake, and to her hand preferred the bowl. Pope.
Presently prefer his suit to Cæsar. Shak.
Three tongues prefer strange orisons on high. Byron.

2. To go before, or be before, in estimation; to outrank; to surpass.
[Obs.] "Though maidenhood prefer bigamy." Chaucer.

3. To cause to go before; hence, to advance before others, as to an
office or dignity; to raise; to exalt; to promote; as, to prefer an
officer to the rank of general.
I would prefer him to a better place. Shak.

4. To set above or before something else in estimation, favor, or
liking; to regard or honor before another; to hold in greater favor;
to choose rather; -- often followed by to, before, or above.
If I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy. Ps. cxxxvii. 6.
Preferred an infamous peace before a most just war. Knolles.
Preferred stock, stock which takes a dividend before other capital
stock; -- called also preference stock and preferential stock.

Syn.
 -- To choose; elect. See Choose.

PREFERABILITY
Pref`er*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being preferable; preferableness. J. S.
Mill.

PREFERABLE
Pref"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. préférable.]

Defn: Worthy to be preferred or chosen before something else; more
desirable; as, a preferable scheme. Addison.

PREFERABLENESS
Pref"er*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being preferable.

PREFERABLY
Pref"er*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In preference; by choice.
To choose Plautus preferably to Terence. Dennis.

PREFERENCE
Pref"er*ence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. préférence.]

1. The act of Preferring, or the state of being preferred; the
setting of one thing before another; precedence; higher estimation;
predilection; choice; also, the power or opportunity of choosing; as,
to give him his preference.
Leave the critics on either side to contend about the preference due
to this or that sort of poetry. Dryden.
Knowledge of things alone gives a value to our reasonings, and
preference of one man's knowledge over another's. Locke.

2. That which is preferred; the object of choice or superior favor;
as, which is your preference

PREFERENTIAL
Pref`er*en"tial, a.

Defn: Giving, indicating, or having a preference or precedence; as, a
preferential claim; preferential shares.

PREFERENTIAL VOTING
Preferential voting. (Political Science)

Defn: A system of voting, as at primaries, in which the voters are
allowed to indicate on their ballots their preference (usually their
first and second choices) between two or more candidates for an
office, so that if no candidate receives a majority of first choices
the one receiving the greatest number of first and second choices
together in nominated or elected.

PREFERMENT
Pre*fer"ment, n.

1. The act of choosing, or the state of being chosen; preference.
[R.]
Natural preferment of the one . . . before the other. Sir T. Browne.

2. The act of preferring, or advancing in dignity or office; the
state of being advanced; promotion.
Neither royal blandishments nor promises of valuable preferment had
been spared. Macaulay.

3. A position or office of honor or profit; as, the preferments of
the church.

PREFERRER
Pre*fer"rer, n.

Defn: One who prefers.

PREFIDENCE
Pref"i*dence, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being prefident. [Obs.] Baxter.

PREFIDENT
Pref"i*dent, a. Etym: [Cf. L. praefidens overconfident. See Pre-, and
Confident.]

Defn: Trusting beforehand; hence, overconfident. [Obs.] Baxter.

PREFIGURATE
Pre*fig"u*rate, v. t. Etym: [L. praefiguratus, p. p. See Prefigure.]

Defn: To prefigure. [R.] Grafton.

PREFIGURATION
Pre*fig`u*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. praefiguratio.]

Defn: The act of prefiguring, or the state of being prefigured.
A variety of prophecies and prefigurations. Norris.

PREFIGURATIVE
Pre*fig"ur*a*tive, a.

Defn: Showing by prefiguration. "The prefigurative atonement." Bp.
Horne.

PREFIGURE
Pre*fig"ure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prefigured; p. pr. & vb. n.
Prefiguring.] Etym: [F. préfigurer, or L. praefigurare,
praefiguratum; prae before + figurare to figure. See Figure, and cf.
Prefigurate.]

Defn: To show, suggest, or announce, by antecedent types and
similitudes; to foreshadow. "Whom all the various types prefigured."
South.

PREFIGUREMENT
Pre*fig"ure*ment, n.

Defn: The act of prefiguring; prefiguration; also, that which is
prefigured. Carlyle.

PREFINE
Pre*fine", v. t. Etym: [L. praefinire; prae before + finire to limit,
determine: cf. F. préfiner.]

Defn: To limit beforehand. [Obs.] Knolles.

PREFINITE
Pre*fi"nite, a. Etym: [L. praefinitus, p. p.]

Defn: Prearranged. [Obs.] " Set and prefinite time." Holland.

PREFINITION
Pref`i*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. praefinitio.]

Defn: Previous limitation. [Obs.] Fotherby.

PREFIX
Pre*fix", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prefixed; p. pr. & vb. n. Prefixing.]
Etym: [L. praefixus, p. p. of praefigere to fix or fasten before;
prae before + figere to fix: cf. F. préfix fixed beforehand,
determined, préfixer to prefix. See Fix.]

1. To put or fix before, or at the beginning of, another thing; as,
to prefix a syllable to a word, or a condition to an agreement.

2. To set or appoint beforehand; to settle or establish antecedently.
[Obs.] " Prefixed bounds. " Locke.
And now he hath to her prefixt a day. Spenser.

PREFIX
Pre"fix, n. Etym: [Cf. F. préfixe.]

Defn: That which is prefixed; esp., one or more letters or syllables
combined or united with the beginning of a word to modify its
signification; as, pre- in prefix, con- in conjure.

PREFIXION
Pre*fix"ion, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. prefixion.]

Defn: The act of prefixing. [R.] Bailey.

PREFLORATION
Pre`flo*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. pre- + L. flos, floris, flower.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Æstivation.

PREFOLIATION
Pre*fo`li*a"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. pre- + L. folium leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Vernation.

PREFORM
Pre*form" (, v. t. Etym: [L. praeformare. See Pre-, and Form.]

Defn: To form beforehand, or for special ends. "Their natures and
preformed faculties. " Shak.

PREFORMATION
Pre`for*ma"tion, n. (Biol.)

Defn: An old theory of the preëxistence of germs. Cf. Emboîtement.

PREFORMATIVE
Pre*form"a*tive, n.

Defn: A formative letter at the beginning of a word. M. Stuart.

PREFRONTAL
Pre*fron"tal, a. (Anat. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Situated in front of the frontal bone, or the frontal region of
the skull; ectethmoid, as a certain bone in the nasal capsule of many
animals, and certain scales of reptiles and fishes.
 -- n.

Defn: A prefrontal bone or scale.

PREFULGENCY
Pre*ful"gen*cy, n. Etym: [L. praefulgens, p. pr. of praefulgere to
shine forth. See Pre-, and Fulgent.]

Defn: Superior brightness or effulgency. [R.] Barrow.

PREGAGE
Pre*gage" (, v. t.

Defn: To preëngage. [Obs.] Fuller.

PREGLACIAL
Pre*gla"cial, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Prior to the glacial or drift period.

PREGNABLE
Preg"na*ble, a, Etym: [F. prenable. See Impregnable.]

Defn: Capable of being entered, taken, or captured; expugnable; as, a
pregnable fort. [R.] Cotgrave.

PREGNANCE
Preg"nance, n.

Defn: Pregnancy. [Obs.] Milton.

PREGNANCY
Preg"nan*cy, n.

1. The condition of being pregnant; the state of being with young.

2. Figuratively: The quality of being heavy with important contents,
issue, significance, etc.; unusual consequence or capacity;
fertility. Fuller.

PREGNANT
Preg"nant, a. Etym: [L. praegnans, -antis; prae before + genere,
gignere, to beget: cf. F. prégnant. See Gender, 2d Kin.]

1. Being with young, as a female; having conceived; great with young;
breeding; teeming; gravid; preparing to bring forth.

2. Heavy with important contents, significance, or issue; full of
consequence or results; weighty; as, pregnant replies. " A pregnant
argument." Prynne. " A pregnant brevity." E. Everett.

3. Full of promise; abounding in ability, resources, etc.; as, a
pregnant youth. [Obs.] Evelyn.
Wherein the pregnant enemy does much. Shak.
Pregnant construction (Rhet.), one in which more is implied than is
said; as, the beasts trembled forth from their dens, that is, came
forth trembling with fright.

PREGNANT
Preg"nant, n.

Defn: A pregnant woman. [R.] Dunglison.

PREGNANT
Preg"nant, a. Etym: [F. prenant taking. Cf. Pregnable.]

Defn: Affording entrance; receptive; yielding; willing; open; prompt.
[Obs.] " Pregnant to good pity." Shak.

PREGNANTLY
Preg"nant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a pregnant manner; fruitfully; significantly.

PREGNANTLY
Preg"nant*ly, adv.

Defn: Unresistingly; openly; hence, clearly; evidently. [Obs.] Shak.

PREGRAVATE
Pre"gra*vate, v. t. Etym: [L. praegravatus, p. p. of praegravare to
be heavy upon, fr. praegravis very heavy.]

Defn: To bear down; to depress. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

PREGRAVITATE
Pre*grav"i*tate, v. i.

Defn: To descend by gravity; to sink. [R.] Boyle.

PREGUSTANT
Pre*gus"tant, a. Etym: [L. praegustans, p. pr. of praegustare to
taste beforehand; prae before + gustare to taste.]

Defn: Tasting beforehand; having a foretaste. [R.] Ed. Rev.

PREGUSTATION
Pre`gus*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of tasting beforehand; foretaste. [R.] Dr. Walker
(1678).

PREHALLUX
Pre*hal"lux, n. Etym: [NL. See Pre-, and Hallux.] (Anat.)

Defn: An extra first toe, or rudiment of a toe, on the preaxial side
of the hallux.

PREHEND
Pre*hend" (, v. t. Etym: [L. prehendere. See Prehensile.]

Defn: To lay hold of; to seize. [Obs.] Middleton.

PREHENSI-BLE
Pre*hen"si-ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. préhensible.]

Defn: Capable of being seized.

PREHENSILE
Pre*hen"sile, a. Etym: [L. prehensus, p. p. of prehendere to lay hold
of, seize; pre- (equiv. to prae before) + hendere (in comp.), akin to
E. get: cf. F. préhensile. See Get, and cf. Prison, Prize, n.]

Defn: Adapted to seize or grasp; seizing; grasping; as, the
prehensile tail of a monkey.

PREHENSION
Pre*hen"sion, n. Etym: [L. prehensio; cf. F. préhension. See
Prehensile.]

Defn: The act of taking hold, seizing, or grasping, as with the hand
or other member.

PREHENSORY
Pre*hen"so*ry, a.

Defn: Adapted to seize or grasp; prehensile.

PREHISTORIC
Pre`his*tor"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a period before written history begins; as,
the prehistoric ages; prehistoric man.

PREHNITE
Prehn"ite, n. Etym: [So called from the German Colonel Prehn, who
first found it.] (Min.)

Defn: A pale green mineral occurring in crystalline aggregates having
a botryoidal or mammillary structure, and rarely in distinct
crystals. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime.

PREHNITIC
Prehn*it"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a tetrabasic acid of benzene
obtained as a white crystalline substance; -- probably so called from
the resemblance of the wartlike crystals to the mammillæ on the
surface of prehnite.

PREIGNITION
Pre`ig*ni"tion, n. (Engin.)

Defn: Ignition in an internal-combustion engine while the inlet valve
is open or before compression is completed.

PREINDESIGNATE
Pre`in*des"ig*nate, a. (Logic.)

Defn: Having no sign expressive of quantity; indefinite. See
Predesignate.

PREINDISPOSE
Pre*in`dis*pose" ( v. t.

Defn: To render indisposed beforehand. Milman.

PREINSTRUCT
Pre`in*struct" ( v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preinstructed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preinstructing.]

Defn: To instruct previously or beforehand. Dr. H. More.

PREINTIMATION
Pre*in`ti*ma"tion n.

Defn: Previous intimation; a suggestion beforehand. T. Scott.

PREJUDGE
Pre*judge" ( v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prejudged (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Prejudging.] Etym: [Pref. pre + judge: cf. F. préjuger. Cf.
Prejudicate, Prejudice.]

Defn: To judge before hearing, or before full and sufficient
examination; to decide or sentence by anticipation; to condemn
beforehand.
The committee of council hath prejudged the whole case, by calling
the united sense of both houses of Parliament" a universal clamor."
Swift.

PREJUDGMENT
Pre*judg"ment, n.

Defn: The act of prejudging; decision before sufficient examination.

PREJUDICACY
Pre*ju"di*ca*cy, n.

Defn: Prejudice; prepossession. [Obs.] Sir. H. Blount.

PREJUDICAL
Pre*ju"di*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the determination of some matter not
previously decided; as, a prejudical inquiry or action at law.

PREJUDICANT
Pre*ju"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. praejudicans, p. pr.]

Defn: Influenced by prejudice; biased. [R.] " With not too hasty and
prejudicant ears." Milton.

PREJUDICATE
Pre*ju"di*cate, a. Etym: [L. praejudicatus, p. p. of praejudicare to
prejudge; prae before + judicare to judge. See Judge.]

1. Formed before due examination. "Ignorance and prejudicate
opinions." Jer. Taylor.

2. Biased by opinions formed prematurely; prejudiced. "Prejudicate
readers." Sir T. Browne.

PREJUDICATE
Pre*ju"di*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prejudicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Prejudicating.] Etym: [Cf. Prejudge.]

Defn: To determine beforehand, especially to disadvantage; to
prejudge.
Our dearest friend Prejudicates the business. Shak.

PREJUDICATE
Pre*ju"di*cate, v. i.

Defn: To prejudge. Sir P. Sidney.

PREJUDICATELY
Pre*ju"di*cate*ly, adv.

Defn: With prejudice.

PREJUDICATION
Pre*ju`di*ca"tion, n.

1. The act of prejudicating, or of judging without due examination of
facts and evidence; prejudgment.

2. (Rom. Law)
(a) A preliminary inquiry and determination about something which
belongs to a matter in dispute.
(b) A previous treatment and decision of a point; a precedent.

PREJUDICATIVE
Pre*ju"di*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Forming a judgment without due examination; prejudging. Dr. H.
More.

PREJUDICE
Prej"u*dice n. Etym: [F. préjudice, L. praejudicium; prae before +
judicium judgment. See Prejudicate, Judicial.]

1. Foresight. [Obs.]
Naught might hinder his quick prejudize. Spenser.

2. An opinion or judgment formed without due examination;
prejudgment; a leaning toward one side of a question from other
considerations than those belonging to it; an unreasonable
predilection for, or objection against, anything; especially, an
opinion or leaning adverse to anything, without just grounds, or
before sufficient knowledge.
Though often misled by prejudice and passion, he was emphatically an
honest man. Macaulay.

3. (Law)

Defn: A bias on the part of judge, juror, or witness which interferes
with fairness of judgment.

4. Mischief; hurt; damage; injury; detriment. Locke.
England and France might, through their amity, Breed him some
prejudice. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Prejudgment; prepossession; bias; harm; hurt; damage; detriment;
mischief; disadvantage.

PREJUDICE
Prej"u*dice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prejudiced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Prejudicing.] Etym: [Cf. F. préjudicier. See Prejudice, n.]

1. To cause to have prejudice; to prepossess with opinions formed
without due knowledge or examination; to bias the mind of, by hasty
and incorrect notions; to give an unreasonable bent to, as to one
side or the other of a cause; as, to prejudice a critic or a juryman.
Suffer not any beloved study to prejudice your mind so far as to
despise all other learning. I. Watts

2. To obstruct or injure by prejudices, or by previous bias of the
mind; hence, generally, to hurt; to damage; to injure; to impair; as,
to prejudice a good cause.
Seek how may prejudice the foe. Shak

PREJUDICIAL
Prej`u*di"cial a. Etym: [L. praejudicialis belonging to a preceding
judgment: cf. F. préjudiciel.]

1. Biased, possessed, or blinded by prejudices; as, to look with a
prejudicial eye. [Obs.] Holyday.

2. Tending to obstruct or impair; hurtful; injurious;
disadvantageous; detrimental. Hooker.
His going away . . . was most prejudicial and most ruinous to the
king's affairs. Clarendon.
-- Prej`u*di"cial*ly, adv.
 -- Prej`u*di"cial*ness, n.

PREKNOWLEDGE
Pre*knowl"edge, n.

Defn: Prior knowledge.

PRELACY
Prel"a*cy n.; pl. Prelacies. Etym: [LL. praelatia. See Prelate; cf.
Prelaty.]

1. The office or dignity of a prelate; church government by prelates.
Prelacies may be termed the greater benefices. Ayliffe.

2. The order of prelates, taken collectively; the body of
ecclesiastical dignitaries. "Divers of the reverend prelacy, and
other most judicious men." Hooker.

PRELAL
Pre"lal, a. Etym: [L. prelum a press.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to printing; typographical. [Obs.] Fuller.

PRELATE
Prel"ate (; 48), n. Etym: [F. prélat, LL. praelatus, fr. L.
praelatus, used as p. p. of praeferre to prefer, but from a different
root. See Elate.]

Defn: A clergyman of a superior order, as an archbishop or a bishop,
having authority over the lower clergy; a dignitary of the church.

Note: This word and the words derived from it are often used
invidiously, in English ecclesiastical history, by dissenters,
respecting the Established Church system.
Hear him but reason in divinity, . . . You would desire the king were
made a prelate. Shak.

PRELATE
Prel"ate, v. i.

Defn: To act as a prelate. [Obs.]
Right prelating is busy laboring, and not lording. Latimer.

PRELATEITY
Prel`a*te"i*ty, n.

Defn: Prelacy. [Obs.] Milton.

PRELATESHIP
Prel"ate*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a prelate. Harmar.

PRELATESS
Prel"a*tess, n.

Defn: A woman who is a prelate; the wife of a prelate. Milton.

PRELATIAL
Pre*la"tial, a.

Defn: Prelatical. Beaconsfield.

PRELATIC; PRELATICAL
Pre*lat"ic, Pre*lat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to prelates or prelacy; as, prelatical
authority. Macaulay.

PRELATICALLY
Pre*lat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a prelatical manner; with reference to prelates. Milton.
The last Georgic was a good prelude to the Æneis.

PRELATION
Pre*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. praelatio: cf. F. prélation. See Prelate,
and cf. Prefer.]

Defn: The setting of one above another; preference. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

PRELATISM
Prel"a*tism, n.

Defn: Prelacy; episcopacy.

PRELATIST
Prel"a*tist n.

Defn: One who supports of advocates prelacy, or the government of the
church by prelates; hence, a high-churchman. Hume.
I am an Episcopalian, but not a prelatist. T. Scott.

PRELATIZE
Prel"a*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prelatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Prelatizing.]

Defn: To bring under the influence of prelacy. Palfrey.

PRELATIZE
Prel"a*tize, v. i.

Defn: To uphold or encourage prelacy; to exercise prelatical
functions.
An episcopacy that began then to prelatize. Milton.

PRELATRY
Prel"a*try, n.

Defn: Prelaty; prelacy. [Obs.]

PRELATURE; PRELATURESHIP
Prel"a*ture, Prel"a*ture*ship, n. Etym: [F. prélature, or LL.
praelatura.]

Defn: The state or dignity of a prelate; prelacy. Milman.

PRELATY
Prel"a*ty, n.

Defn: Prelacy. [Obs.] Milton.

PRELECT
Pre*lect" v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prelected; p. pr. & vb. n. Prelecting.]
Etym: [L. praelectus, p. p. of praelegere to read before. See Pre-,
and Lection.]

Defn: To read publicly, as a lecture or discourse.

PRELECT
Pre*lect", v. i.

Defn: To discourse publicly; to lecture.
Spitting . . . was publicly prelected upon. De. Quincey.
To prelect upon the military art. Bp. Horsley.

PRELECTION
Pre*lec"tion, n. Etym: [L. praelectio.]

Defn: A lecture or discourse read in public or to a select company.
"The prelections of Faber." Sir M. Hale.

PRELECTOR
Pre*lec"tor, n. Etym: [L. praelector.]

Defn: A reader of lectures or discourses; a lecturer. Sheldon.

PRELIBATION
Pre`li*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. praelibatio, fr. praelibare to taste
beforehand: cf. F. prelibation.]

1. A. tasting beforehand, or by anticipation; a foretaste; as, a
prelibation of heavenly bliss.

2. A pouring out, or libation, before tasting.

PRELIMINARILY
Pre*lim"i*na*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a preliminary manner.

PRELIMINARY
Pre*lim"i*na*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. pre + L. liminaris belonging to a
threshold, fr. limen, liminis, threshold, entrance: cf. F.
préliminaire. Cf. Limit.]

Defn: Introductory; previous; preceding the main discourse or
business; prefatory; as, preliminary observations to a discourse or
book; preliminary articles to a treaty; preliminary measures;
preliminary examinations.

Syn.
 -- Introductory; preparatory; prefatory; proemial; previous; prior;
precedent; antecedent.

PRELIMINARY
Pre*lim"i*na*ry, n.; pl. Preliminaries (.

Defn: That which precedes the main discourse, work, design, or
business; something introductory or preparatory; as, the
preliminaries to a negotiation or duel; to take one's preliminaries
the year before entering college.

Syn.
 -- Introduction; preface; prelude.

PRELIMIT
Pre*lim"it, v. t.

Defn: To limit previously. [R.]

PRELOOK
Pre*look", v. i.

Defn: To look forward. [Obs.] Surrey.

PRELUDE
Pre"lude, n. Etym: [F. prélude (cf. It. preludio, LL. praeludium),
fr. L. prae before + ludus play. See Prelude, v. t.]

Defn: An introductory performance, preceding and preparing for the
principal matter; a preliminary part, movement, strain, etc.;
especially (Mus.), a strain introducing the theme or chief subject; a
movement introductory to a fugue, yet independent; -- with recent
composers often synonymous with overture.
The last Georgic was a good prelude to the Ænis Addison.
The cause is more than the prelude, the effect is more than the
sequel, of the fact. Whewell.

Syn.
 -- Preface; introduction; preliminary; preamble; forerunner;
harbinger; precursor.

PRELUDE
Pre*lude", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Preluded; p. pr. & vb. n. Preluding.]
Etym: [L. praeludere, praelusum; prae before + ludere to play: cf. F.
préluder. See Ludicrous.]

Defn: To play an introduction or prelude; to give a prefatory
performance; to serve as prelude.
The musicians preluded on their instruments. Sir. W. Scott.
We are preluding too largely, and must come at once to the point.
Jeffrey.

PRELUDE
Pre*lude", v. t.

1. To introduce with a previous performance; to play or perform a
prelude to; as, to prelude a concert with a lively air.

2. To serve as prelude to; to precede as introductory.
[Music] preluding some great tragedy. Longfellow

PRELUDER
Pre*lud"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, preludes; one who plays a prelude.
Mason.

PRELUDIAL
Pre*lud"i*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a prelude; of the nature of a prelude;
introductory. [R.]

PRELUDIOUS
Pre*lud"i*ous a.

Defn: Preludial. [R.] Dr. H. More.

PRELUMBAR
Pre*lum"bar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated immediately in front of the loins;- applied to the
dorsal part of the abdomen.

PRELUSIVE
Pre*lu"sive, a. Etym: [See Prelude.]

Defn: Of the nature of a prelude; introductory; indicating that
something of a like kind is to follow. "Prelusive drops." Thomson. --
Pre*lu"sive*ly, adv.

PRELUSORILY
Pre*lu"so*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a prelusory way.

PRELUSORY
Pre*lu"so*ry, a.

Defn: Introductory; prelusive. Bacon.

PREMATURE
Pre`ma*ture", a. Etym: [L. praematurus; prae before + maturus ripe.
See Mature.]

1. Mature or ripe before the proper time; as, the premature fruits of
a hotbed.

2. Happening, arriving, existing, or performed before the proper or
usual time; adopted too soon; too early; untimely; as, a premature
fall of snow; a premature birth; a premature opinion; premature
decay.

3. Arriving or received without due authentication or evidence; as, a
premature report.
 -- Pre`ma*ture"ly, adv.
 -- Pre`ma*ture"ness, n.

PREMATURITY
Pre`ma*tu"ri*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. prématurité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being premature; early, or untimely,
ripeness; as, the prematurity of genius.

PREMAXILLA
Pre"max*il"la n.; pl. Premaxillæ. Etym: [NL. See Pre-, and Maxilla.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A bone on either side of the middle line between the nose and
mouth, forming the anterior part of each half of the upper jawbone;
the intermaxilla. In man the premaxillæ become united and form the
incisor part of the maxillary bone.

PREMAXILLARY
Pre*max"il*la*ry, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of the maxillary bones; pertaining to the
premaxillæ; intermaxillary.
 -- n.

Defn: A premaxilla.

PREMEDIATE
Pre*me"di*ate, v. t.

Defn: To advocate. [R.]

PREMEDITATE
Pre*med"i*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Premeditated (-ta`td); p. pr. &
vb. n. Premeditating.] Etym: [L. praemeditatus, p. p. of
praemeditari; prae before + meditari to meditate. See Meditate.]

Defn: To think on, and revolve in the mind, beforehand; to contrive
and design previously; as, to premeditate robbery.
With words premeditated thus he said. Dryden.

PREMEDITATE
Pre*med"i*tate, v. i.

Defn: To think, consider, deliberate, or revolve in the mind,
beforehand.

PREMEDITATE
Pre*med"i*tate, a. Etym: [L. praemeditatus, p. p.]

Defn: Premeditated; deliberate. [Archaic] Bp. Burnet.

PREMEDITATELY
Pre*med"i*tate*ly, adv.

Defn: With premeditation. Burke.

PREMEDITATION
Pre*med`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. praemeditatio: cf. F. préméditation.]

Defn: The act of meditating or contriving beforehand; previous
deliberation; forethought.

PREMERIT
Pre*mer"it, v. t.

Defn: To merit or deserve beforehand. [Obs.] Eikon Basi

PREMIAL; PREMIANT
Pre"mi*al, Pre"mi*ant, a. Etym: [L. praemialis. See Premium.]

Defn: Serving to reward; rewarding. [R.] Baxter.

PREMICES
Prem"i*ces, n. pl. Etym: [F. prémices, L. primitiae. See Primitia.]

Defn: First fruits. [Obs.] Dryden.

PREMIER
Pre"mi*er, a. Etym: [F. premier, fr. L. primarius of the first rank,
principal, fr. primus the first. See Primary, Prime, a.]

1. First; chief; principal; as, the premier place; premier minister.
Camden. Swift.

2. Most ancient; -- said of the peer bearing the oldest title of his
degree.

PREMIER
Pre"mi*er, n.

Defn: The first minister of state; the prime minister.

PREMIERE
Pre*mière", a. fem. [F., prop. fem. of premier first. See Premier,
a.]

Defn: First; chief; as, a première danseuse. -- n. fem.; pl. -mières
(F. pre*myâr").
 (a) The leading woman of a group, esp. in a theatrical cast.
 (b) A first performance, as of a play; a first night.

PREMIERSHIP
Pre"mi*er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of the premier.

PREMILLENNIAL
Pre`mil*len"ni*al, a

Defn: , Previous to the millennium.

PREMIOUS
Pre"mi*ous, a. Etym: [L. praemiosus, fr. praemium a premium.]

Defn: Rich in gifts. [R.] Clarke.

PREMISE
Prem"ise, n.; pl. Premises (. [Written also, less properly, premiss.]
Etym: [F. prémisse, fr. L. praemissus, p. p. of praemittere to send
before; prae before + mittere to send. See Mission.]

1. A proposition antecedently supposed or proved; something
previously stated or assumed as the basis of further argument; a
condition; a supposition.
The premises observed, Thy will by my performance shall be served.
Shak.

2. (Logic)

Defn: Either of the first two propositions of a syllogism, from which
the conclusion is drawn.

Note: "All sinners deserve punishment: A B is a sinner." These
propositions, which are the premises, being true or admitted, the
conclusion follows, that A B deserves punishment.
While the premises stand firm, it is impossible to shake the
conclusion. Dr. H. More.

3. pl. (Law)

Defn: Matters previously stated or set forth; esp., that part in the
beginning of a deed, the office of which is to express the grantor
and grantee, and the land or thing granted or conveyed, and all that
precedes the habendum; the thing demised or granted.

4. pl.

Defn: A piece of real estate; a building and its adjuncts; as, to
lease premises; to trespass on another's premises.

PREMISE
Pre*mise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Premised; p. pr. & vb. n. Premising.]
Etym: [From L. praemissus, p. p., or E. premise, n. See Premise, n.]

1. To send before the time, or beforehand; hence, to cause to be
before something else; to employ previously. [Obs.]
The premised flames of the last day. Shak.
If venesection and a cathartic be premised. E. Darwin.

2. To set forth beforehand, or as introductory to the main subject;
to offer previously, as something to explain or aid in understanding
what follows; especially, to lay down premises or first propositions,
on which rest the subsequent reasonings.
I premise these particulars that the reader may know that I enter
upon it as a very ungrateful task. Addison.

PREMISE
Pre*mise", v. i.

Defn: To make a premise; to set forth something as a premise. Swift.

PREMISS
Prem"iss, n.

Defn: Premise. Whately. I. Watts

PREMIT
Pre*mit", v. t.

Defn: To premise. [Obs.] Donne.

PREMIUM
Pre"mi*um, n.; pl. Premiums. Etym: [L. praemium, originally, what one
has got before or better than others; prae before + emere to take,
buy. See Redeem.]

1. A reward or recompense; a prize to be won by being before another,
or others, in a competition; reward or prize to be adjudged; a
bounty; as, a premium for good behavior or scholarship, for
discoveries, etc.
To think it not the necessity, but the premium and privilege of life,
to eat and sleep without any regard to glory. Burke.
The law that obliges parishes to support the poor offers a premium
for the encouragement of idleness. Franklin.

2. Something offered or given for the loan of money; bonus; --
sometimes synonymous with interest, but generally signifying a sum in
addition to the capital.
People were tempted to lend, by great premiums and large interest.
Swift.

3. A sum of money paid to underwriters for insurance, or for
undertaking to indemnify for losses of any kind.

4. A sum in advance of, or in addition to, the nominal or par value
of anything; as, gold was at a premium; he sold his stock at a
premium.

PREMOLAR
Pre*mo"lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of the molar teeth. --n.

Defn: An anterior molar tooth which has replaced a deciduous molar.
See Tooth.

PREMONISH
Pre*mon"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Premonished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Premonishing.] Etym: [Pref. pre- + monish: cf. L. praemonere.]

Defn: To forewarn; to admonish beforehand. [R.] Herrick.
To teach, and to premonish. Bk. of Com. Prayer.

PREMONISHMENT
Pre*mon"ish*ment, n.

Defn: Previous warning or admonition; forewarning. Sir H. Wotton.

PREMONITION
Pre`mo*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. praemonitio. See Premonish.]

Defn: Previous warning, notice, or information; forewarning; as, a
premonition of danger.

PREMONITOR
Pre*mon"i*tor, n. Etym: [L. praemonitor.]

Defn: One who, or that which, gives premonition.

PREMONITORY
Pre*mon"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. praemonitorius.]

Defn: Giving previous warning or notice; as, premonitory symptoms of
disease.
 -- Pre*mon"i*to*ri*ly, adv.

PREMONSTRANT
Pre*mon"strant, n.

Defn: A Premonstratensian.

PREMONSTRATE
Pre*mon"strate, v. t. Etym: [L. praemonstratus, p. p. of
praemonstrare; prae before + monstrate to show.]

Defn: To show beforehand; to foreshow. [R.] Herbert.

PREMONSTRATENSIAN
Pre*mon`stra*ten"sian, n. Etym: [F.prémontré, fr. Prémontré, fr. L.
pratum monstratum.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One of a religious order of regular canons founded by St.
Norbert at Prémontré, in France, in 1119. The members of the order
are called also White Canons, Norbertines, and Premonstrants.

PREMONSTRATION
Pre`mon*stra"tion, n. Etym: [L. praemonstratio.]

Defn: A showing beforehand; foreshowing.

PREMONSTRATOR
Pre*mon"stra*tor, n. Etym: [L. praemonstrator.]

Defn: One who, or that which, premonstrates. [R.]

PREMORSE
Pre*morse", a. Etym: [L. praemorsus, p. p. of praemordere to bite
off; prae before + mordere to bite.]

Defn: Terminated abruptly, or as it bitten off. Premorse root or
leaves (Bot.), such as have an abrupt, ragged, and irregular
termination, as if bitten off short.

PREMOSAIC
Pre`mo*sa"ic a.

Defn: Relating to the time before Moses; as, premosaic history.

PREMOTION
Pre*mo"tion n. Etym: [Pref. pre- + motion.]

Defn: Previous motion or excitement to action.

PREMUNIRE
Prem`u*ni"re, n. (Law)

Defn: See Præmunire.

PREMUNITE
Prem`u*nite", v. t. Etym: [L. praemunitus, p. p. of praemunire to
fortify in front; prae before + munire to fortify.]

Defn: To fortify beforehand; to guard against objection. [Obs.]
Fotherby.

PREMUNITION
Pre`mu*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. praemunitio: cf. F. prémunition.]

Defn: The act of fortifying or guarding against objections. [Obs.]

PREMUNITORY
Pre*mu"ni*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a premunire; as, a premunitory process.

PRENASAL
Pre*na"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of the nose, or in front of the nasal
chambers.

PRENATAL
Pre*na"tal, a.

Defn: Being or happening before birth.

PRENDER
Pren"der, n. Etym: [F. prendre to take, fr. L. prehendere to take.]
(Law)

Defn: The power or right of taking a thing before it is offered.
Burrill.

PRENOMEN
Pre*no"men, n.

Defn: See Prænomen.

PRENOMINAL
Pre*nom"i*nal, a.

Defn: Serving as a prefix in a compound name. Sir T. Browne.

PRENOMINATE
Pre*nom"i*nate a. Etym: [L. praenominatus, p. p. of praenominare to
give the prenomen to, to prenominate, fr. praenomen prenomen.]

Defn: Forenamed; named beforehand. [R.] "Prenominate crimes." Shak.

PRENOMINATE
Pre*nom"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To forename; to name beforehand; to tell by name beforehand.
Shak.

PRENOMINATION
Pre*nom`i*na*tion, n.

Defn: The act of prenominating; privilege of being named first. Sir
T. Browne.

PRENOSTIC
Pre*nos"tic, n. Etym: [L. praenoscere to foreknow; prae before +
noscere, notum, to know.]

Defn: A prognostic; an omen. [Obs.] Gower.

PRENOTE
Pre*note", v. t. Etym: [L. praenotare; prae before + notare to note.]

Defn: To note or designate beforehand. Foxe.

PRENOTION
Pre*no"tion n. Etym: [L. praenotio: cf. F. prénotion. See Prenostic.]

Defn: A notice or notion which precedes something else in time;
previous notion or thought; foreknowledge. Bacon.

PRENSATION
Pren*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. prensatio, from prensare, prehensare, v.
freq. from prehendere to seize.]

Defn: The act of seizing with violence. [Obs.] Barrow .

PRENTICE
Pren"tice, n. Etym: [Aphetic form of apprentice.]

Defn: An apprentice. [Obs. or Colloq.] Piers Plowman. "My accuser is
my prentice." Shak.

PRENTICEHOOD
Pren"tice*hood (, n.

Defn: Apprenticehood. [Obs.]
This jolly prentice with his master bode Till he was out nigh of his
prenticehood. Chaucer.

PRENTICESHIP
Pren"tice*ship, n.

Defn: Apprenticeship. [Obs. or Colloq.]
He served a prenticeship who sets up shop. Pope.

PRENUNCIATION
Pre*nun`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. praenunciatio, fr. praenunciare to
announce beforehand. See Pre-, and Announce.]

Defn: The act of announcing or proclaiming beforehand. [Obs.]

PRENUNCIOUS
Pre*nun"cious, a. Etym: [L. praenuncius.]

Defn: Announcing beforehand; presaging. [Obs.] Blount.

PREOBLONGATA
Pre*ob`lon*ga"ta, n. Etym: [NL. See Pre-, and Oblongata.] (Anat.)

Defn: The anterior part of the medulla oblongata. B. G. Wilder.

PREOBTAIN
Pre`ob*tain", v. t.

Defn: To obtain beforehand.

PREOCCUPANCY
Pre*oc"cu*pan*cy, n. Etym: [See Preoccupate.]

Defn: The act or right of taking possession before another; as, the
preoccupancy of wild land.

PREOCCUPATE
Pre*oc"cu*pate, v. t. Etym: [L. praeoccupatus, p. p. of praeoccupare
to preoccupy. See Preoccupy.]

1. To anticipate; to take before. [Obs.] "Fear preoccupateth it
[death]." Bacon.

2. To prepossess; to prejudice. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

PREOCCUPATION
Pre*oc`cu*pa"tion, n. Etym: [L. praeoccupatio: cf. F. préoccupation.]

1. The act of preoccupying, or taking possession of beforehand; the
state of being preoccupied; prepossession.

2. Anticipation of objections. [R.] South.

PREOCCUPY
Pre*oc"cu*py, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preoccupied (-pid); p. pr. & vb. n.
Preoccupying.] Etym: [Cf. F. préoccuper. See Preoccupate, Occupy.]

1. To take possession of before another; as, to preoccupy a country
not before held.

2. To prepossess; to engage, occupy, or engross the attention of,
beforehand; hence, to prejudice.
I Think it more respectful to the reader to leave something to
reflections than to preoccupy his judgment. Arbuthnot.

PREOCULAR
Pre*oc"u*lar, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Placed just in front of the eyes, as the antennæ of certain
insects.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the scales just in front of the eye of a reptile or
fish.

PREOMINATE
Pre*om"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To ominate beforehand; to portend. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

PREOPERCULAR
Pre`o*per"cu*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of the operculum; pertaining to the
preoperculum.
 -- n.

Defn: The preoperculum.

PREOPERCULUM
Pre`o*per"cu*lum, n Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: The anterior opercular bone in fishes.

PREOPINION
Pre`o*pin"ion, n.

Defn: Opinion previously formed; prepossession; prejudice. Sir T.
Browne.

PREOPTION
Pre*op"tion, n.

Defn: Right of first choice.

PREORAL
Pre*o"ral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of, or anterior to, the mouth; as, preoral
bands.

PREORBITAL
Pre*or"bit*al

Defn: a. (Anat.) Situated in front or the orbit.

PREORDAIN
Pre`or*dain", v. t. Etym: [Pref. pre + ordain: cf. L. praeordinare.]

Defn: To ordain or appoint beforehand: to predetermine: to
foreordain. Milton.

PREORDER
Pre*or"der, v. t.

Defn: To order to arrange beforehand; to foreordain. Sir W. Hamilton.

PREORDINANCE
Pre*or"di*nance, n.

Defn: Antecedent decree or determination. Shak.

PREORDINATE
Pre*or"di*nate, a. Etym: [L. praeordinatus, p. p. See Preordain.]

Defn: Preordained. [R.] Sir T. Elyot.

PREORDINATION
Pre*or`di*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. préordination.]

Defn: The act of foreordaining: previous determination. "The
preordination of God." Bale.

PREPARABLE
Pre*par"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being prepared. "Medicine preparable by art." Boyle.

PREPARATION
Prep`a*ra"tion, n. Etym: [F. préparation, L. praeparatio. See
Prepare.]

1. The act of preparing or fitting beforehand for a particular
purpose, use, service, or condition; previous arrangement or
adaptation; a making ready; as, the preparation of land for a crop of
wheat; the preparation of troops for a campaign.

2. The state of being prepared or made ready; preparedness;
readiness; fitness; as, a nation in good preparation for war.

3. That which makes ready, prepares the way, or introduces; a
preparatory act or measure.
I will show what preparations there were in nature for this
dissolution. T. Burnet.

4. That which is prepared, made, or compounded by a certain process
or for a particular purpose; a combination. Specifically: (a) Any
medicinal substance fitted for use. (b) Anything treated for
preservation or examination as a specimen. (c) Something prepared for
use in cookery.
I wish the chemists had been more sparing who magnify their
preparations. Sir T. Browne.
In the preparations of cookery, the most volatile parts of vegetables
are destroyed. Arbuthnot.

5. An army or fleet. [Obs.] Shak.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: The holding over of a note from one chord into the next chord,
where it forms a temporary discord, until resolved in the chord that
follows; the anticipation of a discordant note in the preceding
concord, so that the ear is prepared for the shock. See Suspension.

7. Accomplishment; qualification. [Obs.] Shak.

PREPARATIVE
Pre*par"a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. préparatif.]

Defn: Tending to prepare or make ready; having the power of
preparing, qualifying, or fitting; preparatory.
Laborious quest of knowledge preparative to this work. South.

PREPARATIVE
Pre*par"a*tive, n.

1. That which has the power of preparing, or previously fitting for a
purpose; that which prepares. "A preparative unto sermons." Hooker.

2. That which is done in the way of preparation. "Necessary
preparatives for our voyage." Dryden.

PREPARATIVELY
Pre*par"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of preparation.

PREPARATOR
Pre*par"a*tor, n. Etym: [L. praeparator.]

Defn: One who prepares beforehand, as subjects for dissection,
specimens for preservation in collections, etc. Agassiz.

PREPARATORY
Pre*par"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. praeparatorius: cf. F. préparatoire.]

Defn: Preparing the way for anything by previous measures of
adaptation; antecedent and adapted to what follows; introductory;
preparative; as, a preparatory school; a preparatory condition.

PREPARE
Pre*pare", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prepare; p. pr. & vb. n. Preparing.]
Etym: [F. préparer, L. praeparare; prae before + parare to make
ready. See Pare.]

1. To fit, adapt, or qualify for a particular purpose or condition;
to make ready; to put into a state for use or application; as, to
prepare ground for seed; to prepare a lesson.
Our souls, not yet prepared for upper light. Dryden.

2. To procure as suitable or necessary; to get ready; to provide; as,
to prepare ammunition and provisions for troops; to prepare ships for
defence; to prepare an entertainment. Milton.
That they may prepare a city for habitation. Ps. cvii. 36

Syn.
 -- To fit; adjust; adapt; qualify; equip; provide; form; make; make;
ready.

PREPARE
Pre*pare" (, v. i.

1. To make all things ready; to put things in order; as, to prepare
for a hostile invasion. "Bid them prepare for dinner." Shak.

2. To make one's self ready; to get ready; to take the necessary
previous measures; as, to prepare for death.

PREPARE
Pre*pare", n.

Defn: Preparation. [Obs.] Shak.

PREPARED
Pre*pared", a.

Defn: Made fit or suitable; adapted; ready; as, prepared food;
prepared questions.
 -- Pre*par"ed*ly, adv. Shak.
 -- Pre*par"ed*ness, n.

PREPARER
Pre*par"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, prepares, fits, or makes ready. Wood.

PREPAY
Pre*pay", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prepaid; p. pr. & vb. n. Prepaying.]

Defn: To pay in advance, or beforehand; as, to prepay postage.

PREPAYMENT
Pre*pay"ment, n.

Defn: Payment in advance.

PREPENIAL
Pre*pe"ni*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of, or anterior to, the penis.

PREPENSE
Pre*pense", v. t. Etym: [Pref. pre + F. penser to think. See Pansy.]

Defn: To weigh or consider beforehand; to premeditate. [Obs.]
Spenser. Sir T. Elyot.

PREPENSE
Pre*pense", v. i.

Defn: To deliberate beforehand. [Obs.]

PREPENSE
Pre*pense", a. Etym: [See Pansy, and cf. Prepense, v. t.]

Defn: Devised, contrived, or planned beforehand; preconceived;
premeditated; aforethought; -- usually placed after the word it
qualifies; as, malice prepense.
This has not arisen from any misrepresentation or error prepense.
Southey.

PREPENSELY
Pre*pense"ly, adv.

Defn: In a premeditated manner.

PREPOLLENCE; PREPOLLENCY
Pre*pol"lence, Pre*pol"len*cy, n. Etym: [L. praepollentia.]

Defn: The quality or state of being prepollent; superiority of power;
predominance; prevalence. [R.] Coventry.

PREPOLLENT
Pre*pol"lent, a. Etym: [L. praepollens, p. p. of praepollere to
surpass in power; prae before + pollere to be powerful.]

Defn: Having superior influence or power; prevailing; predominant.
[R.] Boyle.

PREPOLLENT
Pre*pol"lent, n.; pl. Prepollices Etym: [NL. See Pre-, Pollex.]
(Anat.)

Defn: An extra first digit, or rudiment of a digit, on the preaxial
side of the pollex.

PREPONDER
Pre*pon"der v. t.

Defn: To preponderate [Obs.]

PREPONDERANCE; PREPONDERANCY
Pre*pon"der*ance, Pre*pon"der*an*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. prépondérance.]

1. The quality or state of being preponderant; superiority or excess
of weight, influence, or power, etc.; an outweighing.
The mind should . . . reject or receive proportionably to the
preponderancy of the greater grounds of probability. Locke.
In a few weeks he had changed the relative position of all the states
in Europe, and had restored the equilibrium which the preponderance
of one power had destroyed. Macaulay.

2. (Gun.)

Defn: The excess of weight of that part of a canon behind the
trunnions over that in front of them.

PREPONDERANT
Pre*pon"der*ant a. Etym: [L. praeponderans, -antis: cf. F.
prépondérant. See Preponderate.]

Defn: Preponderating; outweighing; overbalancing; -- used literally
and figuratively; as, a preponderant weight; of preponderant
importance.
 -- Pre*pon"der*ant*ly, adv.

PREPONDERATE
Pre*pon"der*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preponderated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preponderating.] Etym: [L. praeponderatus, p. p. of praeponderare;
prae before + ponderare to weigh, fr., pondus, ponderis, a weight.
See Ponder.]

1. To outweigh; to overpower by weight; to exceed in weight; to
overbalance.
An inconsiderable weight, by distance from the center of the balance,
will preponderate greater magnitudes. Glanvill.

2. To overpower by stronger or moral power.

3. To cause to prefer; to incline; to decide. [Obs.]
The desire to spare Christian blood preponderates him for peace.
Fuller.

PREPONDERATE
Pre*pon"der*ate, v. i.

Defn: To exceed in weight; hence, to incline or descend, as the scale
of a balance; figuratively, to exceed in influence, power, etc.;
hence; to incline to one side; as, the affirmative side
preponderated.
That is no just balance in which the heaviest side will not
preponderate. Bp. Wilkins.

PREPONDERATINGLY
Pre*pon"der*a`ting*ly, adv.

Defn: In a preponderating manner; preponderantly.

PREPONDERATION
Pre*pon`der*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. praeponderatio.]

Defn: The act or state of preponderating; preponderance; as, a
preponderation of reasons. I. Watts.

PREPOSE
Pre*pose", v. t. Etym: [F. préposer; pref. pré- (L. prae before) +
poser. See Pose.]

Defn: To place or set before; to prefix. [Obs.] Fuller.

PREPOSITION
Prep`o*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. praepositio, fr. praeponere to place
before; prae before + ponere to put, place: cf. F. préposition. See
Position, and cf. Provost.]

1. (Gram.)

Defn: A word employed to connect a noun or a pronoun, in an
adjectival or adverbial sense, with some other word; a particle used
with a noun or pronoun (in English always in the objective case) to
make a phrase limiting some other word; -- so called because usually
placed before the word with which it is phrased; as, a bridge of
iron; he comes from town; it is good for food; he escaped by running.

2. A proposition; an exposition; a discourse. [Obs.]
He made a long preposition and oration. Fabyan.

PREPOSITIONAL
Prep`o*si"tion*al a. Etym: [Cf. F. prépositionnel.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a preposition; of the nature of a
preposition. Early.
 -- Prep`o*si"tion*al*ly, adv.

PREPOSITIVE
Pre*pos"i*tive, a. Etym: [L. praepositivus: cf. F. prépositif.]
(Gram.)

Defn: Put before; prefixed; as, a prepositive particle.
 -- n.

Defn: A prepositive word. Tooke.

PREPOSITOR
Pre*pos"i*tor, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A scholar appointed to inspect other scholars; a monitor. Todd.

PREPOSITURE
Pre*pos"i*ture, n. Etym: [L. praepositura. See Preposition, and cf.
Provost.]

Defn: The office or dignity of a provost; a provostship. Lowth.

PREPOSSESS
Pre`pos*sess", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prepossessed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Prepossessing.]

1. To preoccupy, as ground or land; to take previous possession of.
Dryden.

2. To preoccupy, as the mind or heart, so as to preclude other
things; hence, to bias or prejudice; to give a previous inclination
to, for or against anything; esp., to induce a favorable opinion
beforehand, or at the outset.
It created him enemies, and prepossessed the lord general. Evelyn.

PREPOSSESSING
Pre`pos*sess"ing, a.

Defn: Tending to invite favor; attracting confidence, favor, esteem,
or love; attractive; as, a prepossessing manner.
 -- Pre`pos*sess"ing*ly, adv.

PREPOSSESSION
Pre`pos*ses"sion, n.

1. Preoccupation; prior possession. Hammond.

2. Preoccupation of the mind by an opinion, or impression, already
formed; preconceived opinion; previous impression; bias; --
generally, but not always, used in a favorable sense; as, the
prepossessions of childhood. "The prejudices and prepossessions of
the country." Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- Bent; bias; inclination; preoccupancy; prejudgment. See Bent.

PREPOSSESSOR
Pre`*pos*sess"or, n.

Defn: One who possesses, or occupies, previously. R. Brady.

PREPOSTEROUS
Pre*pos"ter*ous a.Etym: [L. praeposterus; prae before + posterus
coming after, latter. See Posterior.]

1. Having that first which ought to be last; inverted in order.
[Obs.]
The method I take may be censured as preposterous, because I thus
treat last of the antediluvian earth, which was first in the order of
nature. Woodward.

2. Contrary to nature or reason; not adapted to the end; utterly and
glaringly foolish; unreasonably absurd; perverted. "Most preposterous
conclusions." Shak.
Preposterous ass, that never read so far! Shak.

Syn.
 -- Absurd; perverted; wrong; irrational; foolish; monstrous. See
Absurd.
 -- Pre*pos"ter*ous*ly, adv. -Pre*pos"ter*ous*ness, n.

PREPOSTOR
Pre*pos"tor n.

Defn: See Prepositor.

PREPOTENCY
Pre*po"ten*cy, n. Etym: [L. praepotentia: cf. F. prépotence.]

1. The quality or condition of being prepotent; predominance. [Obs.]
Sir T. Browne.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: The capacity, on the part of one of the parents, as compared
with the other, to transmit more than his or her own share of
characteristics to their offspring.

PREPOTENT
Pre*po"tent a. Etym: [L. praepotens. See Pre-, and Potent.]

1. Very powerful; superior in force, influence, or authority;
predominant. Plaifere.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Characterized by prepotency. Darwin.

PREPROVIDE
Pre`pro*vide", v. t.

Defn: To provide beforehand. "The materials preprovided." Fuller.

PREPUBIC
Pre*pu"bic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated in front of, or anterior to, the pubis; pertaining to
the prepubis.

PREPUBIS
Pre*pu"bis, n. Etym: [NL. See Pre-, and Pubis.] (Anat.)

Defn: A bone or cartilage, of some animals, situated in the middle
line in front of the pubic bones.

PREPUCE
Pre"puce, n. Etym: [F. prépuce, L. praeputium.] (Anat.)

Defn: The foreskin.

PREPUTIAL
Pre*pu"tial, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the prepuce.

PRERAPHAELISM; PRERAPHAELITISM
Pre*raph"a*el*ism, Pre*raph"a*el*i`tism, n. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The doctrine or practice of a school of modern painters who
profess to be followers of the painters before Raphael. Its adherents
advocate careful study from nature, delicacy and minuteness of
workmanship, and an exalted and delicate conception of the subject.

PRERAPHAELITE
Pre*raph"a*el*ite, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the style called preraphaelitism; as, a
preraphaelite figure; a preraphaelite landscape. Ruskin.

PRERAPHAELITE
Pre*raph"a*el*ite, n.

Defn: One who favors or practices art as it was before Raphael; one
who favors or advocates preraphaelitism.

PRE-RAPHAELITE
Pre-Raph"a*el*ite, n.

Defn: Popularly, any modern artist thought to be a would-be restorer
of early ideas or methods, as one of the German painters often called
Nazarenes, or one who paints and draws with extreme minuteness of
detail.

PREREGNANT
Pre*reg"nant, n.

Defn: One who reigns before another; a sovereign predecessor. [R.]
Warner.

PREREMOTE
Pre`re*mote a.

Defn: More remote in previous time or prior order.
In some cases two more links of causation may be introduced; one of
them may be termed the preremote cause, the other the postremote
effect. E. Darwin.

PREREQUIRE
Pre`re*quire", v. t.

Defn: To require beforehand.
Some things are prerequired of us. Bp. Hall.

PREREQUISITE
Pre*req"ui*site, a.

Defn: Previously required; necessary as a preliminary to any proposed
effect or end; as, prerequisite conditions of success.

PREREQUISITE
Pre*req"ui*site, n.

Defn: Something previously required, or necessary to an end or effect
proposed.
The necessary prerequisites of freedom. Goldsmith.

PRERESOLVE
Pre`re*solve", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Preresolved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preresolving.]

Defn: To resolve beforehand; to predetermine. Sir E. Dering.

PREROGATIVE
Pre*rog"a*tive, n. Etym: [F. prérogative, from L. praerogativa
precedence in voting, preference, privilege, fr. praerogativus that
is asked before others for his opinion, that votes before or first,
fr. praerogare to ask before another; prae before + rogare to ask.
See Rogation.]

1. An exclusive or peculiar privilege; prior and indefeasible right;
fundamental and essential possession; -- used generally of an
official and hereditary right which may be asserted without question,
and for the exercise of which there is no responsibility or
accountability as to the fact and the manner of its exercise.
The two faculties that are the prerogative of man -- the powers of
abstraction and imagination. I. Taylor.
An unconstitutional exercise of his prerogative. Macaulay.

2. Precedence; preëminence; first rank. [Obs.]
Then give me leave to have prerogative. Shak.

Note: The term came into general use in the conflicts between the
Crown and Parliaments of Great Britain, especially in the time of the
Stuarts. Prerogative Court (Eng. Law), a court which formerly had
authority in the matter of wills and administrations, where the
deceased left bona notabilia, or effects of the value of five pounds,
in two or more different dioceses. Blackstone.
 -- Prerogative office, the office in which wills proved in the
Prerogative Court were registered.

Syn.
 -- Privilege; right. See Privilege.

PREROGATIVED
Pre*rog"a*tived, a.

Defn: Endowed with a prerogative, or exclusive privilege. [R.] Shak.

PREROGATIVELY
Pre*rog"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: By prerogative.

PRESAGE
Pre"sage, n. Etym: [F. présage, L. praesagium, from praesagire. See
Presage, v. t. ]

1. Something which foreshows or portends a future event; a
prognostic; an omen; an augury. "Joy and shout -- presage of
victory." Milton.

2. Power to look the future, or the exercise of that power;
foreknowledge; presentiment.
If there be aught of presage in the mind. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Prognostic; omen; token; sign; presentiment.

PRESAGE
Pre*sage" v. t. [imp. & p. p. Presaged (-sajd"); p. pr. & vb. n.
Presaging. ] Etym: [F. présager, L. praesagire: prae before + sagire
to perceive acutely or sharply. See Sagacious.]

1. To have a presentiment of; to feel beforehand; to foreknow.

2. To foretell; to predict; to foreshow; to indicate.
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand. Shak.

PRESAGE
Pre*sage", v. i.

Defn: To form or utter a prediction; -- sometimes used with of.
Dryden.

PRESAGEFUL
Pre*sage"ful a.

Defn: Full of presages; ominous.
Dark in the glass of some presageful mood. Tennyson.

PRESAGEMENT
Pre*sage"ment, n.

1. The act or art of presaging; a foreboding. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

2. That which is presaged, or foretold. [R.] "Ominous presagement
before his end. " Sir H. Wotton.

PRESAGER
Pre*sa"ger n.

Defn: One who, or that which, presages; a foreteller; a foreboder.
Shak.

PRESAGIOUS
Pre*sa"gious, a.

Defn: Foreboding; ominous. [Obs.]

PRESBYOPE
Pres"by*ope, n. (Med.)

Defn: One who has presbyopia; a farsighted person.

PRESBYOPIA
Pres`by*o"pi*a Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A defect of vision consequent upon advancing age. It is due to
rigidity of the crystalline lens, which producepresbytia.

PRESBYOPIC
Pres`by*op"ic a.

Defn: Affected by presbyopia; also, remedying presbyopia; farsighted.

PRESBYOPY
Pres"by*o`py n. Etym: [Cf. F. presbyopie.]

Defn: See Presbyopia.

PRESBYTE
Pres"byte, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Same as Presbyope.

PRESBYTER
Pres"by*ter, n. Etym: [L. an elder, fr. Gr. Priest.]

1. An elder in the early Christian church. See 2d Citation under
Bishop, n., 1.

2. (Ch. of Eng. & Prot. Epis. Ch.)

Defn: One ordained to the second order in the ministry; -- called
also priest.
I rather term the one sort presbyter than priest. Hooker.
New presbyter is but old priest writ large. Milton.

3. (Presbyterian Ch.)

Defn: A member of a presbytery whether lay or clerical.

4. A Presbyterian. [Obs.] Hudibras.

PRESBYTERAL
Pres*byt"er*al a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a presbyter or presbytery; presbyterial.

PRESBYTERATE
Pres*byt"er*ate n. Etym: [L. presbyteratus: cf. F. presbytérat.]

Defn: A presbytery; also, presbytership. Heber.

PRESBYTERESS
Pres"by*ter*ess, n.

Defn: A female presbyter. Bale.

PRESBYTERIAL
Pres`by*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. presbytéral.]

Defn: Presbyterian. "Presbyterial government." Milton.

PRESBYTERIAN
Pres`by*te"ri*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. presbytérien.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a presbyter, or to ecclesiastical
government by presbyters; relating to those who uphold church
government by presbyters; also, to the doctrine, discipline, and
worship of a communion so governed.

PRESBYTERIAN
Pres`by*te"ri*an, n. Etym: [Cf. F. presbytérien.]

Defn: One who maintains the validity of ordination and government by
presbyters; a member of the Presbyterian church. Reformed
Presbyterians. See Cameronian.

PRESBYTERIANISM
Pres`by*te"ri*an*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. presbytérianisme.]

Defn: That form of church government which invests presbyters with
all spiritual power, and admits no prelates over them; also, the
faith and polity of the Presbyterian churches, taken collectively.

PRESBYTERIUM
Pres`by*te"ri*um, n. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Presbytery, 4.

PRESBYTERSHIP
Pres"by*ter*ship, n.

Defn: The office or station of a presbyter; presbyterate.

PRESBYTERY
Pres"by*ter*y, n.; pl. Presbyteries. Etym: [L. presbyterium, Gr.
Presbyter, and cf. Presbyterium.]

1. A body of elders in the early Christian church.

2. (Presbyterian Ch.)

Defn: A judicatory consisting of all the ministers within a certain
district, and one layman, who is a ruling elder, from each parish or
church, commissioned to represent the church in conjunction with the
pastor. This body has a general jurisdiction over the churches under
its care, and next below the provincial synod in authority.

3. The Presbyterian religion of polity. [R.] Tatler.

4.
(a) (Arch.) That part of the church reserved for the officiating
priest.
(b) The residence of a priest or clergyman. Gwilt.

PRESBYTIA
Pres*byt"i*a n. Etym: [NL. See Presbyte.] (Med.)

Defn: Presbyopia.

PRESBYTIC
Pres*byt"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Presbyopic.

PRESBYTISM
Pres"byt*ism, n.

Defn: Presbyopia.

PRESCAPULA
Pre*scap"u*la, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: The part of the scapula in front of, or above, the spine, or
mesoscapula.

PRESCAPULAR
Pre*scap"u*lar, a.

Defn: (Anat.) Of or pertaining to the prescapula; supraspinous.

PRESCIENCE
Pre"sci*ence n. Etym: [F. prescience, L. praescientia. See
Prescient.]

Defn: Knowledge of events before they take place; foresight.
God's certain prescience of the volitions of moral agents. J.
Edwards.

PRESCIENT
Presci*ent, a. Etym: [L. praesciens, -entis, p. pr. of praescire to
foreknow; prae before + scire to know: cf. F. prescient. See
Science.]

Defn: Having knowledge of coming events; foreseeing; conscious
beforehand. Pope.
Henry . . . had shown himself sensible, and almost prescient, of this
event. Bacon.

PRESCIENTLY
Pre"sci*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: With presciense or foresight.

PRESCIND
Pre*scind", v. t. Etym: [L. praescindere to cut off in front; prae
before + scindere to cut asunder: cf. F. prescinder.]

1. To cut off; to abstract. [Obs.] Norris.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: To consider by a separate act of attention or analysis. Sir W.
Hamilton.

PRESCINDENT
Pre*scind"ent, a. Etym: [L. praescius; prae before + scius knowing,
fr. scire to know.]

Defn: Cutting off; abstracting. [R.] Cheyne.

PRESCIOUS
Pre"scious (pre"shus), a. [L. praescius; prae before + scius knowing,
fr. scire to know.]

Defn: Foreknowing; having foreknowledge; as, prescious of ills. [R.]
Dryden.

PRESCRIBE
Pre*scribe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prescribed; p. pr & vb. n.
Prescribing.] Etym: [L. praescribere, praescriptum; prae before +
scriebe to write. See Scribe.]

1. To lay down authoritatively as a guide, direction, or rule of
action; to impose as a peremptory order; to dictate; to appoint; to
direct.
Prescribe not us our duties. Shak.
Let streams prescribe their fountains where to run. Dryden.

2. (Med.)

Defn: To direct, as a remedy to be used by a patient; as, the doctor
prescribed quinine.

Syn.
 -- To appoint; order; command; dictate; ordain; institute;
establish.

PRESCRIBE
Pre*scribe", v. i.

1. To give directions; to dictate.
A forwardness to prescribe to their opinions. Locke.

2. To influence by long use [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

3. (Med.)

Defn: To write or to give medical directions; to indicate remedies;
as, to prescribe for a patient in a fever.

4. (Law)

Defn: To claim by prescription; to claim a title to a thing on the
ground of immemorial use and enjoyment, that is, by a custom having
the force of law.

PRESCRIBER
Pre*scrib"er, n.

Defn: One who prescribes.

PRESCRIPT
Pre"script, a. Etym: [L. praescriptus, p. p. of praescribere: cf. F.
prescrit. See Prescribe.]

Defn: Directed; prescribed. " A prescript from of words." Jer.
Taylor.

PRESCRIPT
Pre"script, n. Etym: [L. praescriptum: cf. OF. prescript.]

1. Direction; precept; model prescribed. Milton.

2. A medical prescription. [Obs.] Bp. Fell.

PRESCRIPTIBILITY
Pre*scrip`ti*bil"i*ty, n

Defn: , The quality or state of being prescriptible. Story.

PRESCRIPTIBLE
Pre*scrip"ti*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. prescriptible. ]

Defn: Depending on, or derived from, prescription; proper to be
prescribed. Grafton.

PRESCRIPTION
Pre*scrip"tion, n. Etym: [F. prescription, L. praescriptio,an
inscription, preface, precept, demurrer, prescription (in sense 3),
fr. praescribere. See Prescribe.]

1. The act of prescribing, directing, or dictating; direction;
precept; also, that which is prescribed.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A direction of a remedy or of remedies for a disease, and the
manner of using them; a medical recipe; also, a prescribed remedy.

3. (Law)

Defn: A prescribing for title; the claim of title to a thing by
virtue immemorial use and enjoyment; the right or title acquired by
possession had during the time and in the manner fixed by law. Bacon.
That profound reverence for law and prescription which has long been
characteristic of Englishmen. Macaulay.

Note: Prescription differs from custom, which is a local usage, while
prescription is personal, annexed to the person only. Prescription
only extends to incorporeal rights, such as aright of way, or of
common. What the law gives of common rights is not the subject of
prescription. Blackstone. Cruise. Kent. In Scotch law, prescription
is employed in the sense in which limitation is used in England and
America, namely, to express that operation of the lapse of time by
which obligations are extinguished or title protected. Sir T. Craig.
Erskine.

PRESCRIPTIVE
Pre*scrip"tive, a. Etym: [L. praescriptivus of a demurrer or legal
exception.] (Law)

Defn: Consisting in, or acquired by, immemorial or long-continued use
and enjoyment; as, a prescriptive right of title; pleading the
continuance and authority of long custom.
The right to be drowsy in protracted toil has become prescriptive. J.
M. Mason.

PRESCRIPTIVELY
Pre*scrip"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: By prescription.

PRESCUTUM
Pre*scu"tum, n.; pl. Prescuta (. Etym: [NL. See Præ-, and Scutum.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The first of the four pieces composing the dorsal part, or
tergum, of a thoracic segment of an insect. It is usually small and
inconspicuous.

PRESEANCE
Pre"se*ance, n. Etym: [F. préséance. See Preside.]

Defn: Priority of place in sitting.[Obs.] Carew.

PRESELECT
Pre`se*lect", v. t.

Defn: To select beforehand.

PRESENCE
Pres"ence, n. Etym: [F. présence, L. praesentia. See Present.]

1. The state of being present, or of being within sight or call, or
at hand; -- opposed to absence.

2. The place in which one is present; the part of space within one's
ken, call, influence, etc.; neighborhood without the intervention of
anything that forbids intercourse.
Wrath shell be no more Thenceforth, but in thy presence joy entire.
Milton.

3. Specifically, neighborhood to the person of one of superior of
exalted rank; also, presence chamber.
In such a presence here to plead my thoughts. Shak.
An't please your grace, the two great cardinals. Wait in the
presence. Shak.

4. The whole of the personal qualities of an individual; person;
personality; especially, the person of a superior, as a sovereign.
The Sovran Presence thus replied. Milton.

5. An assembly, especially of person of rank or nobility; noble
company.
Odmar, of all this presence does contain, Give her your wreath whom
you esteem most fair. Dryden.

6. Port, mien; air; personal appearence. "Rather dignity of presence
than beauty of aspect." Bacon.
A graceful presence bespeaks acceptance. Collier.
Presence chamber, or Presence room, the room in which a great
personage receives company. Addison." Chambers of presence." Bacon.
 -- Presence of mind, that state of the mind in which all its
faculties are alert, prompt, and acting harmoniously in obedience to
the will, enabling one to reach, as it were spontaneously or by
intuition, just conclusions in sudden emergencies.

PRESENSATION
Pre`sen*sa"tion, n.

Defn: Previous sensation, notion, or idea. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

PRESENSION
Pre*sen"sion, n. Etym: [L. praesensio, fr. praesentire to perceive
beforehand. See Presentient.]

Defn: Previous perception. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

PRESENT
Pres"ent, a. Etym: [F. présent, L. praesens,-entis, that is before
one, in sight or at hand, p. p. of praeesse to be before; prae before
+ esse to be. See Essence.]

1. Being at hand, within reach or call, within certain contemplated
limits; -- opposed to absent.
These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you. John
xiv. 25.

2. Now existing, or in process; begun but not ended; now in view, or
under consideration; being at this time; not past or future; as, the
present session of Congress; the present state of affairs; the
present instance.
I'll bring thee to the present business Shak.

3. Not delayed; immediate; instant; coincident. "A present
recompense." "A present pardon." Shak.
An ambassador . . . desires a present audience. Massinger.

4. Ready; quick in emergency; as a present wit. [R.]

5. Favorably attentive; propitious. [Archaic]
To find a god so present to my prayer. Dryden.
Present tense (Gram.), the tense or form of a verb which expresses
action or being in the present time; as, I am writing, I write, or I
do write.

PRESENT
Pres"ent, n. Etym: [Cf. F. présent. See Present, a.]

1. Present time; the time being; time in progress now, or at the
moment contemplated; as, at this present.
Past and present, wound in one. Tennyson.

2. pl. (Law)

Defn: Present letters or instrument, as a deed of conveyance, a
lease, letter of attorney, or other writing; as in the phrase, " Know
all men by these presents," that is, by the writing itself, " per has
literas praesentes; " -- in this sense, rarely used in the singular.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: A present tense, or the form of the verb denoting the present
tense. At present, at the present time; now.
 -- For the present, for the tine being; temporarily.
 -- In present, at once, without delay. [Obs.] "With them, in
present, half his kingdom; the rest to follow at his death." Milton.

PRESENT
Pre*sent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Presented; p. pr. & vb. n.
Presenting.] Etym: [F. présenter, L. praesentare, fr. praesens, a.
See Present, a.]

1. To bring or introduce into the presence of some one, especially of
a superior; to introduce formally; to offer for acquaintance; as, to
present an envoy to the king; (with the reciprocal pronoun) to come
into the presence of a superior.
Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves
before the lord. Job i. 6

2. To exhibit or offer to view or notice; to lay before one's
perception or cognizance; to set forth; to present a fine appearance.
Lectorides's memory is ever . . . presenting him with the thoughts of
other persons. I. Watts.

3. To pass over, esp. in a ceremonious manner; to give in charge or
possession; to deliver; to make over.
So ladies in romance assist their knight, Present the spear, and arm
him for the fight. Pope.

4. To make a gift of; to bestow; to give, generally in a formal or
ceremonious manner; to grant; to confer.
My last, least offering, I present thee now. Cowper.

5. Hence: To endow; to bestow a gift upon; to favor, as with a
donation; also, to court by gifts.
Octavia presented the poet for him admirable elegy on her son
Marcellus. Dryden.

6. To present; to personate. [Obs.] Shak.

7. In specific uses;
(a) To nominate to an ecclesiastical benefice; to offer to the bishop
or ordinary as a candidate for institution.
The patron of a church may present his clerk to a parsonage or
vicarage; that is, may offer him to the bishop of the diocese to be
instituted. Blackstone.

(b) To nominate for support at a public school or other institution .
Lamb.
(c) To lay before a public body, or an official, for consideration,
as before a legislature, a court of judicature, a corporation, etc.;
as, to present a memorial, petition, remonstrance, or indictment.
(d) To lay before a court as an object of inquiry; to give notice
officially of, as a crime of offence; to find or represent
judicially; as, a grand jury present certain offenses or nuisances,
or whatever they think to be public injuries.
(e) To bring an indictment against . [U.S]
(f) To aim, point, or direct, as a weapon; as, to present a pistol or
the point of a sword to the breast of another. Pesent arms (Mil.),
the command in response to which the gun is carried perpendicularly
in front of the center of the body, and held there with the left hand
grasping it at the lower band, and the right hand grasping the small
of the stock, in token of respect, as in saluting a superior officer;
also, the position taken at such a command.

PRESENT
Pre*sent", v. i. (Med.)

Defn: To appear at the mouth of the uterus so as to be perceptible to
the finger in vaginal examination; -- said of a part of an infant
during labor.

PRESENT
Pres"ent, n. Etym: [F. présent .]

Defn: Anything presented or given; a gift; a donative; as, a
Christmas present.

Syn.
 -- Gift; donation; donative; benefaction. See Gift.

PRESENT
Pre*sent", n. (Mil.)

Defn: The position of a soldier in presenting arms; as, to stand at
present.

PRESENTABLE
Pre*sent"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. présentable.]

1. Capable or admitting of being presented; suitable to be exhibited,
represented, or offered; fit to be brought forward or set forth;
hence, fitted to be introduced to another, or to go into society; as,
ideas that are presentable in simple language; she is not presentable
in such a gown.

2. Admitting of the presentation of a clergiman; as, a church
presentable. [R.] Ayliffe.

PRESENTANEOUS
Pres`en*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. praesentaneus. See Present, a.]

Defn: Ready; quick; immediate in effect; as, presentaneous poison.
[Obs.] Harvey.

PRESENTATION
Pres`en*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. praesentatio a showing, representation:
cf. F. présentation.]

1. The act of presenting, or the state of being presented; a setting
forth; an offering; bestowal.
Prayers are sometimes a presentation of mere desires. Hooker.

2. Hence,

Defn: exhibition; representation; display; appearance; semblance;
show.
Under the presentation of the shoots his wit. Shak.

3. That which is presented or given; a present; a gift, as, the
picture was a presentation. [R.]

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: The act of offering a clergyman to the bishop or ordinary for
institution in a benefice; the right of presenting a clergyman.
If the bishop admits the patron's presentation, the clerk so admitted
is next to be instituted by him. Blackstone.

5. (Med.)

Defn: The particular position of the child during labor relatively to
the passage though which it is to be brought forth; -- specifically
designated by the part which first appears at the mouth of the
uterus; as, a breech presentation. Presentation copy, a copy of a
book, engraving, etc., presented to some one by the author or artist,
as a token of regard.

PRESENTATIVE
Pre*sent"a*tive, a.

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: Having the right of presentation, or offering a clergyman to
the bishop for institution; as, advowsons are presentative,
collative, or donative. Blackstone.

2. Admitting the presentation of a clergyman; as, a presentative
parsonage. Spelman.

3. (Metaph.)

Defn: Capable of being directly known by, or presented to, the mind;
intuitive; directly apprehensible, as objects; capable of
apprehending, as faculties.
The latter term, presentative faculty, I use . . . in contrast and
correlation to a "representative faculty." Sir W. Hamilton.

PRESENTEE
Pres`en*tee", n. Etym: [F. présenté, p. p. See Present, v. t. ]

Defn: One to whom something is presented; also, one who is presented;
specifically (Eccl.), one presented to benefice. Ayliffe.

PRESENTER
Pre*sent"er, n.

Defn: One who presents.

PRESENTIAL
Pre*sen"tial, a. Etym: [LL. praesentialis.]

Defn: Implying actual presence; present, immediate. [Obs.]
God's mercy is made presential to us. Jer. Taylor.
-- Pre*sen"tial*ly, adv. [Obs.]

PRESENTIALITY
Pre*sen`ti*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: State of being actually present. [Obs.] South.

PRESENTIATE
Pre*sen"ti*ate, v. t.

Defn: To make present. [Obs.]

PRESENTIENT
Pre*sen"tient, a. Etym: [L. praesentiens, p. pr. of praesentire to
perceive beforehand; prae before + sentire to feel.]

Defn: Feeling or perceiving beforehand.

PRESENTIFIC
Pres`en*tif"ic, a. Etym: [L. praesens, -entis, present + facere to
make.]

Defn: Making present. [Obs.] -- Pres`en*tif"ic*ly, adv. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

PRESENTIFICAL
Pres`en*tif"ic*al, a.

Defn: Presentific. [Obs.]

PRESENTIMENT
Pre*sen"ti*ment, n. Etym: [Pref. pre- + sentiment: cf. F.
pressentiment. See Presentient.]

Defn: Previous sentiment, conception, or opinion; previous
apprehension; especially, an antecedent impression or conviction of
something unpleasant, distressing, or calamitous, about to happen;
anticipation of evil; foreboding.

PRESENTIMENTAL
Pre*sen`ti*men"tal, a.

Defn: Of nature of a presentiment; foreboding. [R.] Coleridge.

PRESENTION
Pre*sen"tion, n.

Defn: See Presension. [Obs.]

PRESENTIVE
Pre*sent"ive, a. (Philol.)

Defn: Bringing a conception or notion directly before the mind;
presenting an object to the memory of imagination; -- distinguished
from symbolic.
How greatly the word "will" is felt to have lost presentive power in
the last three centuries. Earle.
-- Pre*sent"ive*ly, adv.
 -- Pre*sent"ive*ness, n.

PRESENTLY
Pres"ent*ly, adv.

1. At present; at this time; now. [Obs.]
The towns and forts you presently have. Sir P. Sidney.

2. At once; without delay; forthwith; also, less definitely, soon;
shortly; before long; after a little while; by and by. Shak.
And presently the fig tree withered away. Matt. xxi. 19.

3. With actual presence; actually . [Obs.]
His precious body and blood presently three. Bp. Gardiner.

PRESENTMENT
Pre*sent"ment, n.

1. The act of presenting, or the state of being presented;
presentation. " Upon the heels of my presentment." Shak.

2. Setting forth to view; delineation; appearance; representation;
exhibition.
Power to cheat the eye with blear illusion, And give it false
presentment. Milton.

3. (Law)
(a) The notice taken by a grand jury of any offence from their own
knowledge or observation, without any bill of indictment laid before
them, as, the presentment of a nuisance, a libel, or the like; also,
an inquisition of office and indictment by a grand jury; an official
accusation presented to a tribunal by the grand jury in an
indictment, or the act of offering an indictment; also, the
indictment itself.
(b) The official notice (formerly required to be given in court) of
the surrender of a copyhold estate. Blackstone. Presentment of a bill
of exchange, the offering of a bill to the drawee for acceptance, or
to the acceptor for payment. See Bill of exchange, under Bill.

Mozley & W.

PRESENTNESS
Pres"ent*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being present; presence. [Obs.]
"Presentness of mind in danger." Clarendon.

PRESENTOIR
Pres`en*toir", n. Etym: [Formed after analogy of French.]

Defn: An ornamental tray, dish, or the like, used as a salver.

PRESENT VALUE; PRESENT WORTH
Pres"ent value or worth  (of money payable at a future date).

Defn: The principal which, drawing interest at a given rate, will
amount to the given sum at the date on which this is to be paid;
thus, interest being at 6%, the present value of $106 due one year
hence is $100.

PRESERVABLE
Pre*serv"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being preserved; admitting of preservation.

PRESERVATION
Pres`er*va"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. préservation.]

Defn: The act or process of preserving, or keeping safe; the state of
being preserved, or kept from injury, destruction, or decay;
security; safety; as, preservation of life, fruit, game, etc.; a
picture in good preservation.
Give us particulars of thy preservation. Shak.

PRESERVATIVE
Pre*serv"a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. préservatif.]

Defn: Having the power or quality of preserving; tending to preserve,
or to keep from injury, decay, etc.

PRESERVATIVE
Pre*serv"a*tive, n.

Defn: That which preserves, or has the power of preserving; a
presevative agent.
To wear tablets as preservatives against the plague. Bacon.

PRESERVATORY
Pre*serv"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Preservative. Bp. Hall.

PRESERVATORY
Pre*serv"a*to*ry, n.; pl. Preservatories (.

1. A preservative. [Obs.] Whitlock.

2. A room, or apparatus, in which perishable things, as fruit,
vegetables, etc., can be preserved without decay.

PRESERVE
Pre*serve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Preserved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Preserving.] Etym: [F. préserver, from L. prae before + servare to
save, preserve; cf. L. praeservare to observe beforehand. See Serve.]

1. To keep or save from injury or destruction; to guard or defend
from evil, harm, danger, etc.; to protect.
O Lord, thou preserved man and beast. Ps. xxxvi. 6.
Now, good angels preserve the king. Shak.

2. To save from decay by the use of some preservative substance, as
sugar, salt, etc.; to season and prepare for remaining in a good
state, as fruits, meat, etc.; as, to preserve peaches or grapes.
You can not preserve it from tainting. Shak.

3. To maintain throughout; to keep intact; as, to preserve
appearances; to preserve silence. To preserve game, to protect it
from extermination.

Syn.
 -- To keep; save; secure; uphold; sustain; defend; spare; protect;
guard; shield. See Keep.

PRESERVE
Pre*serve", v. i.

1. To make preserves. Shak.

2. To protect game for purposes of sport.

PRESERVE
Pre*serve", n.

1. That which is preserved; fruit, etc., seasoned and kept by
suitable preparation; esp., fruit cooked with sugar; -- commonly in
the plural.

2. A place in which game, fish, etc., are preserved for purposes of
sport, or for food.

PRESERVER
Pre*serv"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, preserves, saves, or defends, from
destruction, injury, or decay; esp., one who saves the life or
character of another. Shak.

2. One who makes preserves of fruit. Game preserver. See under Game.

PRESHOW
Pre*show", v. t.

Defn: To foreshow.

PRESIDE
Pre*side", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Presided; p. pr. & vb. n. Presiding.]
Etym: [L. praesidere; prae before + sedere to sit: cf. F. présider.
See Sit.]

1. To be set, or to sit, in the place of authority; to occupy the
place of president, chairman, moderator, director, etc.; to direct,
control, and regulate, as chief officer; as, to preside at a public
meeting; to preside over the senate.

2. To exercise superintendence; to watch over.
Some o'er the public magazines preside. Dryden.

PRESIDENCE
Pres"i*dence, n.

Defn: See Presidency. [Obs.]

PRESIDENCY
Pres"i*den*cy, n.; pl. Presidencies. Etym: [Cf. F. présidence.]

1. The function or condition of one who presides; superintendence;
control and care.

2. The office of president; as, Washington was elected to the
presidency.

3. The term during which a president holds his office; as, during the
presidency of Madison.

4. One of the three great divisions of British India, the Bengal,
Madras, and Bombay Presidencies, each of which had a council of which
its governor was president.

PRESIDENT
Pres"i*dent, n.

Defn: Precedent. [Obs.] Bacon.

PRESIDENT
Pres"i*dent, a.

Defn: Occupying the first rank or chief place; having the highest
authority; presiding. [R.]
His angels president In every province. Milton.

PRESIDENT
Pres"i*dent, n. Etym: [F. président, L. praesidens, -entis, p. pr. of
praesidere. See Preside.]

1. One who is elected or appointed to preside; a presiding officer,
as of a legislative body. Specifically:
(a) The chief officer of a corporation, company, institution,
society, or the like.
(b) The chief executive officer of the government in certain
republics; as, the president of the United States.

2. A protector; a guardian; a presiding genius. [Obs.]
Just Apollo, president of verse. Waller.

PRESIDENTIAL
Pres`i*den"tial, a.

1. Presiding or watching over. "Presidential angels." Glanvill.

2. Of or pertaining to a president; as, the presidential chair; a
presidential election.