

PULVERABLE
Pul"ver*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being reduced to fine powder. Boyle.

PULVERACEOUS
Pul`ver*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a finely powdered surface; pulverulent.

PULVERATE
Pul"ver*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. pulveratus, p. p. of pulverare to
pulverize. See Pulverize.]

Defn: To beat or reduce to powder or dust; to pulverize. [R.]

PULVERINE
Pul"ver*ine, n. Etym: [L. pulvis, pulveris, dust, powder; cf. F.
pulvérin.]

Defn: Ashes of barilla. Ure.

PULVERIZABLE
Pul"ver*i`za*ble, a.

Defn: Admitting of being pulverized; pulverable. Barton.

PULVERIZATION
Pul`ver*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pulvérisation.]

Defn: The action of reducing to dust or powder.

PULVERIZE
Pul"ver*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pulverized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Pulverizing.] Etym: [F. pulvériser, L. pulverizare, fr. pulvis dust,
powder. See Powder.]

Defn: To reduce of fine powder or dust, as by beating, grinding, or
the like; as, friable substances may be pulverized by grinding or
beating, but to pulverize malleable bodies other methods must be
pursued.

PULVERIZE
Pul"ver*ize, v. i.

Defn: To become reduced to powder; to fall to dust; as, the stone
pulverizes easily.

PULVERIZER
Pul"ver*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, pulverizes.

PULVEROUS
Pul"ver*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. L. pulvereus, from pulvis, pulveris, dust,
powder.]

Defn: Consisting of dust or powder; like powder.

PULVERULENCE
Pul*ver"u*lence, n.

Defn: The state of being pulverulent; abundance of dust or powder;
dustiness.

PULVERULENT
Pul*ver"u*lent, a. Etym: [L. pulverulentus, fr. pulvis, pulveris,
dust, powder: cf. F. pulvérulent.]

Defn: Consisting of, or reducible to, fine powder; covered with dust
or powder; powdery; dusty.

PULVIL
Pul"vil, n. Etym: [It. polviglio, fr. L. pulvis, pulveris, dust,
powder: cf. Sp. polvillo.]

Defn: A sweet-scented powder; pulvillio. [Written also pulville.]
[Obs.] Gay.

PULVIL
Pul"vil, v. t.

Defn: To apply pulvil to. [Obs.] Congreve.

PULVILLIO; PULVILLO
Pul*vil"li*o, Pul*vil"lo, n. Etym: [See Pulvil.]

Defn: A kind of perfume in the form of a powder, formerly much used,
-- often in little bags.
Smells of incense, ambergris, and pulvillios. Addison.

PULVILLUS
Pul*vil"lus, n.; pl. Pulvilli. Etym: [L., a little cushion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the minute cushions on the feet of certain insects.

PULVINAR
Pul*vi"nar, n. Etym: [L., a cushion.] (Anat.)

Defn: A prominence on the posterior part of the thalamus of the human
brain.

PULVINATE; PULVINATED
Pul"vi*nate, Pul"vi*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. pulvinatus, fr. pulvinus a
cushion, an elevation.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: Curved convexly or swelled; as, a pulvinated frieze. Brande &
C.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the form of a cushion.

PULVINIC
Pul*vin"ic, a. Etym: [From Vulpinic, by transposition of the
letters.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the
decomposition of vulpinic acid, as a white crystalline substance.

PULVINULUS
Pul*vin"u*lus, n.; pl. Pulvinuli. Etym: [L., a little mound.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Pulvillus.

PUMA
Pu"ma, n. Etym: [Peruv. puma.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large American carnivore (Felis concolor), found from Canada
to Patagonia, especially among the mountains. Its color is tawny, or
brownish yellow, without spots or stripes. Called also catamount,
cougar, American lion, mountain lion, and panther or painter.

PUME
Pume, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A stint.

PUMICATE
Pu"mi*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pumicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Pumicating.] Etym: [L. pumicatus, p. p. of pumicare to pumicate, fr.
pumex. See Pumice.]

Defn: To make smooth with pumice. [R.]

PUMICE
Pum"ice, n. Etym: [L. pumex, pumicis, prob. akin to spuma foam: cf.
AS. pumic-stan. Cf. Pounce a powder, Spume.] (Min.)

Defn: A very light porous volcanic scoria, usually of a gray color,
the pores of which are capillary and parallel, giving it a fibrous
structure. It is supposed to be produced by the disengagement of
watery vapor without liquid or plastic lava. It is much used, esp. in
the form of powder, for smoothing and polishing. Called also pumice
stone.

PUMICED
Pum"iced, a. (Far.)

Defn: Affected with a kind of chronic laminitis in which there is a
growth of soft spongy horn between the coffin bone and the hoof wall.
The disease is called pumiced foot, or pumice foot.

PUMICEOUS
Pu*mi`ceous, a. Etym: [L. pumiceus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to pumice; resembling pumice.

PUMICE STONE
Pum"ice stone`.

Defn: Same as Pumice.

PUMICIFORM
Pu*mic"i*form, a. Etym: [Pumice + -form.]

Defn: Resembling, or having the structure of, pumice.

PUMMACE
Pum"mace, n.

Defn: Same as Pomace.

PUMMEL
Pum"mel, n. & v. t.

Defn: Same as Pommel.

PUMP
Pump (pûmp), n. Etym: [Probably so called as being worn for pomp or
ornament. See Pomp.]

Defn: A low shoe with a thin sole. Swift.

PUMP
Pump, n. Etym: [Akin to D. pomp, G. pumpe, F. pompe; of unknown
origin.]

Defn: An hydraulic machine, variously constructed, for raising or
transferring fluids, consisting essentially of a moving piece or
piston working in a hollow cylinder or other cavity, with valves
properly placed for admitting or retaining the fluid as it is drawn
or driven through them by the action of the piston.

Note: for various kinds of pumps, see Air pump, Chain pump, and Force
pump; also, under Lifting, Plunger, Rotary, etc. Circulating pump
(Steam Engine), a pump for driving the condensing water through the
casing, or tubes, of a surface condenser.
 -- Pump brake. See Pump handle, below.
 -- Pump dale. See Dale.
 -- Pump gear, the apparatus belonging to a pump. Totten.
 -- Pump handle, the lever, worked by hand, by which motion is given
to the bucket of a pump.
 -- Pump hood, a semicylindrical appendage covering the upper wheel
of a chain pump.
 -- Pump rod, the rod to which the bucket of a pump is fastened, and
which is attached to the brake or handle; the piston rod.
 -- Pump room, a place or room at a mineral spring where the waters
are drawn and drunk. [Eng.] -- Pump spear. Same as Pump rod, above.
 -- Pump stock, the stationary part, body, or barrel of a pump.
 -- Pump well. (Naut.) See Well.

PUMP
Pump, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pumped (pûmt; 215); p. pr. & vb. n.
pumping.]

1. To raise with a pump, as water or other liquid.

2. To draw water, or the like, from; to from water by means of a
pump; as, they pumped the well dry; to pump a ship.

3. Figuratively, to draw out or obtain, as secrets or money, by
persistent questioning or plying; to question or ply persistently in
order to elicit something, as information, money, etc.
But pump not me for politics. Otway.

PUMP
Pump, v. i.

Defn: To work, or raise water, a pump.

PUMPAGE
Pump"age, n.

Defn: That which is raised by pumps, or the work done by pumps.
The pumpage last year amounted to . . . gallons. Sci. Amer.

PUMPER
Pump"er, n.

Defn: One who pumps; the instrument or machine used in pumping.
Boyle.

PUMPERNICKEL
Pump"er*nick`el, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: A sort of bread, made of unbolted rye, which forms the chief
food of the Westphalian peasants. It is acid but nourishing.

PUMPET
Pum"pet, n.

Defn: A pompet. Pumpet ball (Print.), a ball for inking types; a
pompet.

PUMPING
Pump"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from pump. Pumping engine, a steam engine and pump
combined for raising water. See Steam engine.

PUMPION
Pump"ion, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Pumpkin.

PUMPKIN
Pump"kin, n. Etym: [For older pompion, pompon, OF. pompon, L. pepo,
peponis, Gr. Cook, n.] (Bot.)

Defn: A well-known trailing plant (Cucurbita pepo) and its fruit, --
used for cooking and for feeding stock; a pompion. Pumpkin seed. (a)
The flattish oval seed of the pumpkin. (b) (Zoöl.) The common
pondfish.

PUMY
Pu"my, a. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. pummer big, large, and E. pomey
pommel.]

Defn: Large and rounded. [Obs.]
A gentle stream, whose murmuring wave did play Amongst the pumy
stones. Spenser.

PUN
Pun, v. t. Etym: [See Pound to beat.]

Defn: To pound. [Obs.]
He would pun thee into shivers with his fist. Shak.

PUN
Pun, n. Etym: [Cf. Pun to pound, Pound to beat.]

Defn: A play on words which have the same sound but different
meanings; an expression in which two different applications of a word
present an odd or ludicrous idea; a kind of quibble or equivocation.
Addison.
A better put on this word was made on the Beggar's Opera, which, it
was said, made Gay rich, and Rich gay. Walpole.

PUN
Pun, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Punned; p. pr. & vb. n. Punning.]

Defn: To make puns, or a pun; to use a word in a double sense,
especially when the contrast of ideas is ludicrous; to play upon
words; to quibble. Dryden.

PUN
Pun, v. t.

Defn: To persuade or affect by a pun. Addison.

PUNA
Pu"na, n. [Sp., of Peruv. origin.]

Defn: A cold arid table-land, as in the Andes of Peru.

PUNCH
Punch, n. Etym: [Hind. panch five, Skr. pacan. So called because
composed of five ingredients, viz., sugar, arrack, spice, water, and
lemon juice. See Five.]

Defn: A beverage composed of wine or distilled liquor, water (or
milk), sugar, and the juice of lemon, with spice or mint; --
specifically named from the kind of spirit used; as rum punch, claret
punch, champagne punch, etc. Milk punch, a sort of punch made with
spirit, milk, sugar, spice, etc.
 -- Punch bowl, a large bowl in which punch is made, or from which it
is served.
 -- Roman punch, a punch frozen and served as an ice.

PUNCH
Punch, n. Etym: [Abbrev, fr. punchinello.]

Defn: The buffoon or harlequin of a puppet show. Punch and Judy, a
puppet show in which a comical little hunchbacked Punch, with a large
nose, engages in altercation with his wife Judy.

PUNCH
Punch, n. Etym: [Prov. E. Cf. Punchy.]

1. A short, fat fellow; anything short and thick.
I . . . did hear them call their fat child punch, which pleased me
mightily, that word being become a word of common use for all that is
thick and short. Pepys.

2. One of a breed of large, heavy draught horses; as, the Suffolk
punch.

PUNCH
Punch, v. t. Etym: [OE. punchen, perhaps the same word as E. punish:
or cf. E. bunch.]

Defn: To thrust against; to poke; as, to punch one with the end of a
stick or the elbow.

PUNCH
Punch, n.

Defn: A thrust or blow. [Colloq.]

PUNCH
Punch, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. puncheon.]

1. A tool, usually of steel, variously shaped at one end for
different uses, and either solid, for stamping or for perforating
holes in metallic plates and other substances, or hollow and
sharpedged, for cutting out blanks, as for buttons, steel pens,
jewelry, and the like; a die.

2. (Pile Driving)

Defn: An extension piece applied to the top of a pile; a dolly.

3. A prop, as for the roof of a mine. Bell punch. See under Bell.
 -- Belt punch (Mach.), a punch, or punch pliers, for making holes
for lacings in the ends of driving belts.
 -- Punch press. See Punching machine, under Punch, v. i.
 -- Punch pliers, pliers having a tubular, sharp-edged steel punch
attached to one of the jaws, for perforating leather, paper, and the
like.

PUNCH
Punch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Punched; p. pr. & vb. n. Punching.] Etym:
[From Punch, n., a tool; cf. F. poinçonner.]

Defn: To perforate or stamp with an instrument by pressure, or a
blow; as, to punch a hole; to punch ticket. Punching machine, or
Punching press, a machine tool for punching holes in metal or other
material; -- called also punch press.

PUNCHEON
Punch"eon, n. Etym: [F. poinçon awl, bodkin, crown, king-post, fr. L.
punctio a pricking, fr. pungere to prick. See Pungent, and cf. Punch
a tool, Punction.]

1. A figured stamp, die, or punch, used by goldsmiths, cutlers, etc.

2. (Carp.)

Defn: A short, upright piece of timber in framing; a short post; an
intermediate stud. Oxf. Gloss.

3. A split log or heavy slab with the face smoothed; as, a floor made
of puncheons. [U.S.] Bartlett.

4. Etym: [F. poinçon, perh. the same as poinçon an awl.]

Defn: A cask containing, sometimes 84, sometimes 120, gallons.

PUNCHER
Punch"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, punches.

PUNCHIN
Pun"chin, n.

Defn: See Puncheon.

PUNCHINELLO
Pun`chi*nel"lo, n. Etym: [It. pulcinella, probably originally a word
of endearment, dim. of pulcina, pulcino, a chicken, from L.
pullicenus, pullus. See Pullet.]

Defn: A punch; a buffoon; originally, in a puppet show, a character
represented as fat, short, and humpbacked. Spectator.

PUNCHY
Punch"y, a. Etym: [Perhaps for paunchy, from paunch. See 3d Punch.]

Defn: Short and thick, or fat.

PUNCTATED; PUNCTATED
Punc"ta*ted, Punc"ta*ted, a. Etym: [From L. punctum point. See Point
.]

1. Pointed; ending in a point or points.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Dotted with small spots of color, or with minute depressions or
pits.

PUNCTATOR
Punc*ta"tor, n.

Defn: One who marks with points. specifically, one who writes Hebrew
with points; -- applied to a Masorite. E. Robinson.

PUNCTICULAR
Punc*tic"u*lar, a.

Defn: Comprised in, or like, a point; exact. [Obs. & R.] Sir T.
Browne.

PUNCTIFORM
Punc"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. punctum point + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a point.

PUNCTILIO
Punc*til"io, n.; pl. Punctilios. Etym: [It. puntiglio, or Sp.
puntillo, dim. fr. L. punctum point. See Point, n.]

Defn: A nice point of exactness in conduct, ceremony, or proceeding;
particularity or exactness in forms; as, the punctilios of a public
ceremony.
They will not part with the least punctilio in their opinions and
practices. Fuller
.

PUNCTILIOUS
Punc*til"ious, a. Etym: [Cf. It. puntiglioso, Sp. puntilloso.]

Defn: Attentive to punctilio; very nice or exact in the forms of
behavior, etiquette, or mutual intercourse; precise; exact in the
smallest particulars. "A punctilious observance of divine laws."
Rogers. "Very punctilious copies of any letters. The Nation.
Punctilious in the simple and intelligible instances of common life.
I. Taylor.
-- Punc*til"ious*ly, adv.
 -- Punc*til"ious*ness, n.

PUNCTION
Punc"tion, n. Etym: [L. punctio, fr. pungere, punctum, to prick: cf.
F. ponction. Cf. Puncheon.]

Defn: A puncturing, or pricking; a puncture.

PUNCTIST
Punc"tist, n.

Defn: A punctator. E. Henderson.

PUNCTO
Punc"to, n. Etym: [See Punto.]

1. A nice point of form or ceremony. Bacon.

2. A term applied to the point in fencing. Farrow.

PUNCTUAL
Punc"tu*al, a. Etym: [F. ponctuel (cf. Sp.puntual, It. puntuale),
from L. punctum point. See Point.]

1. Consisting in a point; limited to a point; unextended. [R.] "This
punctual spot." Milton.
The theory of the punctual existence of the soul. Krauth.

2. Observant of nice points; punctilious; precise.
Punctual to tediousness in all that he relates. Bp. Burnet.
So much on punctual niceties they stand. C. Pitt.

3. Appearing or done at, or adhering exactly to, a regular or an
appointed time; precise; prompt; as, a punctual man; a punctual
payment. "The race of the undeviating and punctual sun." Cowper.
These sharp strokes [of a pendulum], with their inexorably steady
intersections, so agree with our successive thoughts that they seem
like the punctual stops counting off our very souls into the past. J.
Martineau.

PUNCTUALIST
Punc"tu*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who is very exact in observing forms and ceremonies.
Milton.

PUNCTUALITY
Punc`tu*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ponctualité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being punctual; especially, adherence
to the exact time of an engagement; exactness.

PUNCTUALLY
Punc"tu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a punctual manner; promptly; exactly.

PUNCTUALNESS
Punc"tu*al*ness, n.

Defn: Punctuality; exactness.

PUNCTUATE
Punc"tu*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Punctuated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Punctuating.] Etym: [Cf. F. ponctuer. See Punctual.]

Defn: To mark with points; to separate into sentences, clauses, etc.,
by points or stops which mark the proper pauses in expressing the
meaning.

PUNCTUATION
Punc`tu*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ponctuation.] (Gram.)

Defn: The act or art of punctuating or pointing a writing or
discourse; the art or mode of dividing literary composition into
sentences, and members of a sentence, by means of points, so as to
elucidate the author's meaning.

Note: Punctuation, as the term is usually understood, is chiefly
performed with four points: the period [.], the colon [:], the
semicolon [;], and the comma [,]. Other points used in writing and
printing, partly rhetorical and partly grammatical, are the note of
interrogation [], the note of exclamation [!], the parentheses [()],
the dash [--], and brackets []. It was not until the 16th century
that an approach was made to the present system of punctuation by the
Manutii of Venice. With Caxton, oblique strokes took the place of
commas and periods.

PUNCTUATIVE
Punc"tu*a*tive, a.

Defn: Of or belonging to points of division; relating to punctuation.
The punctuative intonation of feeble cadence. Rush.

PUNCTUATOR
Punc"tu*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who punctuates, as in writing; specifically, a punctator.

PUNCTUIST
Punc"tu*ist, n.

Defn: A punctator.

PUNCTULATE; PUNCTULATED
Punc"tu*late, Punc"tu*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. punctulum, dim. of punctum
point.]

Defn: Marked with small spots.
The studs have their surface punctulated, as if set all over with
other studs infinitely lesser. Woodward.

PUNCTUM
Punc"tum, n. Etym: [L., a point.]

Defn: A point. Punctum cæcum. Etym: [L., blind point.] (Anat.) Same
as Blind spot, under Blind.
 -- Punctum proximum, near point. See under Point.
 -- Punctum remotum, far point. See under Point.
 -- Punctum vegetationis Etym: [L., point of vegetation] (Bot.), the
terminal cell of a stem, or of a leaf bud, from which new growth
originates.

PUNCTURATION
Punc`tu*ra"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of puncturing. See Acupuncture.

PUNCTURE
Punc"ture, n. Etym: [L. punctura, fr. pungere, punctum, to prick. See
Pungent.]

1. The act of puncturing; perforating with something pointed.

2. A small hole made by a point; a slight wound, bite, or sting; as,
the puncture of a nail, needle, or pin.
A lion may perish by the puncture of an asp. Rambler.

PUNCTURE
Punc"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Punctured; p. pr. & vb. n.
Puncturing.]

Defn: To pierce with a small, pointed instrument, or the like; to
prick; to make a puncture in; as, to puncture the skin.

PUNCTURED
Punc"tured, a.

1. Having the surface covered with minute indentations or dots.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Produced by puncture; having the characteristics of a puncture;
as, a punctured wound.

PUNDIT
Pun"dit, n. Etym: [Hind. pandit, Skr. pandita a learned man.]

Defn: A learned man; a teacher; esp., a Brahman versed in the
Sanskrit language, and in the science, laws, and religion of the
Hindoos; in Cashmere, any clerk or native official. [Written also
pandit.] [India]

PUNDLE
Pun"dle, n. Etym: [Cf. Bundle.]

Defn: A short and fat woman; a squab. [Obs.]

PUNESE
Pu"nese, n. Etym: [F. punaise, fr. punais stinking, fr. L. putere.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A bedbug. [R or Obs.]

PUNG
Pung, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A kind of plain sleigh drawn by one horse; originally, a rude
oblong box on runners. [U.S.]
Sledges or pungs, coarsely framed of split saplings, and surmounted
with a large crockery crate. Judd.
They did not take out the pungs to-day. E. E. Hale.

PUNGENCE
Pun"gence, n. Etym: [See Pungent.]

Defn: Pungency.

PUNGENCY
Pun"gen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being pungent or piercing; keenness;
sharpness; piquancy; as, the pungency of ammonia. "The pungency of
menaces." Hammond.

PUNGENT
Pun"gent, a. Etym: [L. pungens, -entis, p. pr. of pungere, punctum,
to prick. Cf. Compunction, Expunge, Poignant, Point, n., Puncheon,
Punctilio, Punt, v. t.]

1. Causing a sharp sensation, as of the taste, smell, or feelings;
pricking; biting; acrid; as, a pungent spice.
Pungent radish biting infant's tongue. Shenstone.
The pungent grains of titillating dust. Pope.

2. Sharply painful; penetrating; poignant; severe; caustic; stinging.
With pungent pains on every side. Swift.
His pungent pen played its part in rousing the nation. J. R. Green.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Prickly-pointed; hard and sharp.

Syn.
 -- Acrid; piercing; sharp; penetrating; acute; keen; acrimonious;
biting; stinging.

PUNGENTLY
Pun"gent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a pungent manner; sharply.

PUNGLED
Pun"gled, a. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Shriveled or shrunken; -- said especially of grain which has
lost its juices from the ravages of insects, such as the wheat midge,
or Trips (Thrips cerealium).

PUNGY
Pung"y, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A small sloop or shallop, or a large boat with sails.

PUNIC
Pu"nic, a. Etym: [L. Punicus pertaining to Carthage, or its
inhabitants, fr. Poeni the Carthaginians.]

1. Of or pertaining to the ancient Carthaginians.

2. Characteristic of the ancient Carthaginians; faithless;
treacherous; as, Punic faith.
Yes, yes, his faith attesting nations own; 'T is Punic all, and to a
proverb known. H. Brooke.

PUNICE
Pu"nice, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Punese. [Obs. or R.]

PUNICE
Pu"nice, v. t.

Defn: To punish. [Obs.] Chaucer.

PUNICEOUS; PUNICIAL
Pu*ni"ceous, Pu*ni"cial, a. Etym: [L. puniceus, fr. Punicus Punic.]

Defn: Of a bright red or purple color. [R.]

PUNINESS
Pu"ni*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being puny; littleness; pettiness;
feebleness.

PUNISH
Pun"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Punished; p. pr. & vb. n. Punishing.]
Etym: [OE. punischen, F. punir, from L. punire, punitum, akin to
poena punishment, penalty. See Pain, and -ish.]

1. To impose a penalty upon; to afflict with pain, loss, or suffering
for a crime or fault, either with or without a view to the offender's
amendment; to cause to suffer in retribution; to chasten; as, to
punish traitors with death; a father punishes his child for willful
disobedience.
A greater power Now ruled him, punished in the shape he sinned.
Milton.

2. To inflict a penalty for (an offense) upon the offender; to repay,
as a fault, crime, etc., with pain or loss; as, to punish murder or
treason with death.

3. To injure, as by beating; to pommel. [Low]

Syn.
 -- To chastise; castigate; scourge; whip; lash; correct; discipline.
See Chasten.

PUNISHABLE
Pun"ish*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. punissable.]

Defn: Deserving of, or liable to, punishment; capable of being
punished by law or right; -- said of person or offenses.
That time was, when to be a Protestant, to be a Christian, was by law
as punishable as to be a traitor. Milton.
-- Pun"ish*a*ble*ness, n.

PUNISHER
Pun"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who inflicts punishment.

PUNISHMENT
Pun"ish*ment, n.

1. The act of punishing.

2. Any pain, suffering, or loss inflicted on a person because of a
crime or offense.
I never gave them condign punishment. Shak.
The rewards and punishments of another life. Locke.

3. (Law)

Defn: A penalty inflicted by a court of justice on a convicted
offender as a just retribution, and incidentally for the purposes of
reformation and prevention.

PUNITION
Pu*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. punitio: cf. F. punition. See Punish.]

Defn: Punishment. [R.] Mir. for Mag.

PUNITIVE
Pu"ni*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to punishment; involving, awarding, or
inflicting punishment; as, punitive law or justice.
If death be punitive, so, likewise, is the necessity imposed upon man
of toiling for his subsistence. I. Taylor.
We shall dread a blow from the punitive hand. Bagehot.

PUNITORY
Pu"ni*to*ry, a.

Defn: Punishing; tending to punishment; punitive.
God . . . may make moral evil, as well as natural, at the same time
both prudential and punitory. A. Tucker.

PUNK
Punk, n. Etym: [Cf. Spunk.]

1. Wood so decayed as to be dry, crumbly, and useful for tinder;
touchwood.

2. A fungus (Polyporus fomentarius, etc.) sometimes dried for tinder;
agaric.

3. An artificial tinder. See Amadou, and Spunk.

4. A prostitute; a strumpet. [Obsoles.] Shak.

PUNKA
Pun"ka, n. Etym: [Hind. pankha fan.]

Defn: A machine for fanning a room, usually a movable fanlike frame
covered with canvas, and suspended from the ceiling. It is kept in
motion by pulling a cord. [Hindostan] [Written also punkah.] Malcom.

PUNKIE
Punk"ie, n. [Orig. unknown.]

Defn: A minute biting fly of the genus Ceratopogon or allied genus of
the family Chironomidæ, found in swarms in various densely wooded or
mountaneous regions. [U. S.]

PUNKIN
Pun"kin, n.

Defn: A pumpkin. [Colloq. U. S.]

PUNKLING
Punk"ling, n.

Defn: A young strumpet. [Obs.]

PUNNER
Pun"ner, n.

Defn: A punster. Beau. & Fl.

PUNNET
Pun"net, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. buinne a shoot, branch.]

Defn: A broad, shallow basket, for displaying fruit or flowers.

PUNNOLOGY
Pun*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Pun + -logy.]

Defn: The art or practice of punning; paronomasia. [R.] Pope.

PUNSTER
Pun"ster, n.

Defn: One who puns, or is skilled in, or given to, punning; a
quibbler; a low wit.

PUNT
Punt, v. i. Etym: [F. ponter, or It. puntare, fr. L. punctum point.
See Point.]

Defn: To play at basset, baccara, faro. or omber; to gamble.
She heard . . . of his punting at gaming tables. Thackeray.

PUNT
Punt, n.

Defn: Act of playing at basset, baccara, faro, etc.

PUNT
Punt, n. Etym: [AS., fr. L. ponto punt, pontoon. See Pontoon.]
(Naut.)

Defn: A flat-bottomed boat with square ends. It is adapted for use in
shallow waters.

PUNT
Punt, v. t.

1. To propel, as a boat in shallow water, by pushing with a pole
against the bottom; to push or propel (anything) with exertion.
Livingstone.

2. (Football)

Defn: To kick (the ball) before it touches the ground, when let fall
from the hands.

PUNT
Punt, n. (Football)

Defn: The act of punting the ball.

PUNTELLO
Pun*tel"lo, n.; pl. -li (#). [It., dim. of punto point.] (Sculpture)

Defn: One of the points sometimes drilled as guides for cutting away
superfluous stone.

PUNTER
Punt"er, n.Etym: [Cf. F. ponte. See Punt, v. t.]

Defn: One who punts; specifically, one who plays against the banker
or dealer, as in baccara and faro. Hoyle.

PUNTER
Punt"er, n.

Defn: One who punts a football; also, one who propels a punt.

PUNTIL; PUNTEL
Pun"til, Pun"tel, n. (Glass Making)

Defn: See Pontee.

PUNTO
Pun"to, n. Etym: [It. punto, L. punctum point. See Point.] (Fencing)

Defn: A point or hit. Punto diritto Etym: [It.], a direct stroke or
hit.
 -- Punto reverso Etym: [It. riverso reverse], a backhanded stroke.
Halliwell. "Ah, the immortal passado! the punto reverso!" Shak.

PUNT-OUT
Punt"-out`, n. (American Football)

Defn: A punt made from the goal line by a player of the side which
has made a touchdown to one of his own side for a fair catch, from
which an attempt to kick a goal may be made.

PUNTY
Pun"ty, n. (Glass Making)

Defn: See Pontee.

PUNY
Pu"ny, a. [Compar. Punier; superl. Puniest.] Etym: [F. puîté younger,
later born, OF. puisné; puis afterwards (L. post; see Post-) + né
born, L. natus. See Natal, and cf. Puisne.]

Defn: Imperfectly developed in size or vigor; small and feeble;
inferior; petty.
A puny subject strikes at thy great glory. Shak.
Breezes laugh to scorn our puny speed. Keble.

PUNY
Pu"ny, n.

Defn: A youth; a novice. [R.] Fuller.

PUOY
Puoy, n.

Defn: Same as Poy, n., 3.

PUP
Pup, n. Etym: [See Puppy.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A young dog; a puppy.
(b) a young seal.

PUP
Pup, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pupped; p. pr. & vb. n. Pupping.]

Defn: To bring forth whelps or young, as the female of the canine
species.

PUPA
Pu"pa, n.; pl. L. Pup, E. Pupas. Etym: [L. pupa girl. doll, puppet,
fem. of pupus. Cf. Puppet.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any insect in that stage of its metamorphosis which usually
immediately precedes the adult, or imago, stage.

Note: Among insects belonging to the higher orders, as the
Hymenoptera, Diptera, Lepidoptera, the pupa is inactive and takes no
food; in the lower orders it is active and takes food, and differs
little from the imago except in the rudimentary state of the sexual
organs, and of the wings in those that have wings when adult. The
term pupa is sometimes applied to other invertebrates in analogous
stages of development.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of air-breathing land snails having an elongated spiral
shell. Coarctate, or Obtected, pupa, a pupa which is incased in the
dried-up skin of the larva, as in many Diptera.
 -- Masked pupa, a pupa whose limbs are bound down and partly
concealed by a chitinous covering, as in Lepidoptera.

PUPAL
Pu"pal, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a pupa, or the condition of a pupa.

PUPATE
Pu"pate, v. i. (Zoöl.)

Defn: To become a pupa.

PUPATION
Pu*pa"tion, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: the act of becoming a pupa.

PUPE
Pupe, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A pupa.

PUPELO
Pu*pe"lo, n.

Defn: Cider brandy. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett.

PUPIGEROUS
Pu*pig"er*ous, a. Etym: [Pupa + -gerous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Bearing or containing a pupa; -- said of dipterous larvæ which
do not molt when the pupa is formed within them.

PUPIL
Pu"pil, n. Etym: [F. pupille, n. fem., L. pupilla the pupil of the
eye, originally dim. of pupa a girl. See Puppet, and cf. Pupil a
scholar.] (Anat.)

Defn: The aperture in the iris; the sight, apple, or black of the
eye. See the Note under Eye, and Iris. Pin-hole pupil (Med.), the
pupil of the eye when so contracted (as it sometimes is in typhus, or
opium poisoning) as to resemble a pin hole. Dunglison.

PUPIL
Pu"pil, n. Etym: [F. pupille, n. masc. & fem., L. pupillus, pupilla,
dim. of pupus boy, pupa girl. See Puppet, and cf. Pupil of the eye.]

1. A youth or scholar of either sex under the care of an instructor
or tutor.
Too far in years to be a pupil now. Shak.
Tutors should behave reverently before their pupils. L'Estrange.

2. A person under a guardian; a ward. Dryden.

3. (Civil Law)

Defn: A boy or a girl under the age of puberty, that is, under
fourteen if a male, and under twelve if a female.

Syn.
 -- Learner; disciple; tyro.
 -- See Scholar.

PUPILAGE
Pu"pil*age, n.

Defn: The state of being a pupil.
As sons of kings, loving in pupilage, Have turned to tyrants when
they came to power. Tennyson.

PUPILLARITY
Pu`pil*lar"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pupillarité. See Pupillary.] (Scots
Law)

Defn: The period before puberty, or from birth to fourteen in males,
and twelve in females.

PUPILLARY
Pu"pil*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. pupillaris: cf. F.pupillaire. See Pupil.]

1. Of or pertaining to a pupil or ward. Johnson.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the pupil of the eye.

PUPILLOMETER
Pu`pil*lom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. pupilla pupil of the eye + -meter.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the size of the pupil of the pupil
of the eye.

PUPIPARA
Pu*pip"a*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Pupiparous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Diptera in which the young are born in a stage
like the pupa. It includes the sheep tick, horse tick, and other
parasites. Called also Homaloptera.

PUPIPAROUS
Pu*pip"a*rous, a. Etym: [Pupa + L. parere to bring forth.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Bearing, or containing, a pupa; -- said of the matured larvæ, or
larval skins, of certain Diptera.
(b) Of or pertaining to the Pupipara.

PUPIVORA
Pu*piv"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Pupivorous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of parasitic Hymenoptera, including the ichneumon
flies, which destroy the larvæ and pupæ of insects.

PUPIVOROUS
Pu*piv"o*rous, a. Etym: [Pupa + L. vorare to devour.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding on the pupæ of insects.

PUPLICAN
Pup"li*can, n.

Defn: Publican. [Obs.]

PUPPET
Pup"pet, n. Etym: [OE. popet, OF. poupette; akin to F. poupée a doll,
probably from L. puppa, pupa, a girl, doll, puppet. Cf. Poupeton,
Pupa, Pupil, Puppy.] [Written also poppet.]

1. A small image in the human form; a doll.

2. A similar figure moved by the hand or by a wire in a mock drama; a
marionette; a wooden actor in a play.
At the pipes of some carved organ move, The gilded puppets dance.
Pope.

3. One controlled in his action by the will of another; a tool; -- so
used in contempt. Sir W. Scott.

4. (Mach.)

Defn: The upright support for the bearing of the spindle in a lathe.
Puppet master. Same as Puppetman.
 -- Puppet play, a puppet show.
 -- Puppet player, one who manages the motions of puppets.
 -- Puppet show, a mock drama performed by puppets moved by wires.
 -- Puppet valve, a valve in the form of a circular disk, which
covers a hole in its seat, and opens by moving bodily away from the
seat while remaining parallel with it, -- used in steam engines,
pumps, safety valves, etc. Its edge is often beveled, and fits in a
conical recess in the seat when the valve is closed. See the valves
shown in Illusts. of Plunger pump, and Safety valve, under Plunger,
and Safety.

PUPPETISH
Pup"pet*ish, a.

Defn: Resembling a puppet in appearance or action; of the nature of a
puppet.

PUPPETMAN
Pup"pet*man, n.

Defn: A master of a puppet show.

PUPPETRY
Pup"pet*ry, n.

Defn: Action or appearance resembling that of a puppet, or puppet
show; hence, mere form or show; affectation.
Puppetry of the English laws of divorce. Chambers.

PUPPY
Pup"py, n.; pl. Puppies. Etym: [F. poupée doll, puppet. See Puppet,
and cf. Pup, n.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The young of a canine animal, esp. of the common dog; a whelp.

2. A name of contemptuous reproach for a conceited and impertinent
person.
I found my place taken by an ill-bred, awkward puppy with a money bag
under each arm. Addison.

PUPPY
Pup"py, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Puppied; p. pr. & vb. n. Puppying.]

Defn: To bring forth whelps; to pup.

PUPPYHOOD
Pup"py*hood, n.

Defn: The time or state of being a puppy; the time of being young and
undisciplined.

PUPPYISH
Pup"py*ish, a.

Defn: Like a puppy.

PUPPYISM
Pup"py*ism, n.

Defn: Extreme meanness, affectation, conceit, or impudence. A.
Chalmers.

PUR
Pur, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Purred; p. pr. & vb. n. Purring.] Etym: [Of
imitative origin; cf. Prov. G. purren.]

Defn: To utter a low, murmuring, continued sound, as a cat does when
pleased. [Written also purr.]

PUR
Pur, v. t.

Defn: To signify or express by purring. Gray.

PUR
Pur, n.

Defn: The low, murmuring sound made by a cat to express contentment
or pleasure. [Written also purr.]

PURANA
Pu*ra"na, n. Etym: [Skr. pura, properly. old, ancient, fr. pura
formerly.]

Defn: One of a class of sacred Hindoo poetical works in the Sanskrit
language which treat of the creation, destruction, and renovation of
worlds, the genealogy and achievements of gods and heroes, the reigns
of the Manus, and the transactions of their descendants. The
principal Puranas are eighteen in number, and there are the same
number of supplementary books called Upa Puranas.

PURANIC
Pu*ran"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the Puranas.

PURBECK BEDS
Pur"beck beds`. Etym: [So called from the Isle of Purbeck in
England.] (Geol.)

Defn: The strata of the Purbeck stone, or Purbeck limestone,
belonging to the Oölitic group. See the Chart of Geology.

PURBECK STONE
Pur"beck stone`. (Geol.)

Defn: A limestone from the Isle of Purbeck in England.

PURBLIND
Pur"blind`, a. Etym: [For pure-blind, i. e., wholly blind. See Pure,
and cf. Poreblind.]

1. Wholly blind. "Purblind Argus, all eyes and no sight." Shak.

2. Nearsighted, or dim-sighted; seeing obscurely; as, a purblind eye;
a purblind mole.
The saints have not so sharp eyes to see down from heaven; they be
purblindand sand-blind. Latimer.
O purblind race of miserable men. Tennyson.
-- Pur"blind`ly, adv.
 -- Pur"blind`ness, n.

PURCELANE
Purce"lane, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Purslane. [Obs.]

PURCHASABLE
Pur"chas*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being bought, purchased, or obtained for a
consideration; hence, venal; corrupt.
Money being the counterbalance to all things purchasable by it, as
much as you take off from the value of money, so much you add to the
price of things exchanged. Locke.

PURCHASE
Pur"chase (; 48), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Purchased; p. pr. & vb. n.
Purchasing.] Etym: [OE. purchasen, porchacen, OF. porchacier,
purchacier, to pursue, to seek eagerly, F. pourchasser; OF. pour,
por, pur, for (L. pro) + chacier to pursue, to chase. See Chase.]

1. To pursue and obtain; to acquire by seeking; to gain, obtain, or
acquire. Chaucer.
That loves the thing he can not purchase. Spenser.
Your accent is Something finer than you could purchase in so removed
a dwelling. Shak.
His faults . . . hereditary Rather than purchased. Shak.

2. To obtain by paying money or its equivalent; to buy for a price;
as, to purchase land, or a house.
The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth. Gen. xxv. 10.

3. To obtain by any outlay, as of labor, danger, or sacrifice, etc.;
as, to purchase favor with flattery.
One poor retiring minute . . . Would purchase thee a thousand
thousand friends. Shak.
A world who would not purchase with a bruise Milton.

4. To expiate by a fine or forfeit. [Obs.]
Not tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses. Shak.

5. (Law)
(a) To acquire by any means except descent or inheritance.
Blackstone.
(b) To buy for a price.

6. To apply to (anything) a device for obtaining a mechanical
advantage; to get a purchase upon, or apply a purchase to; as, to
purchase a cannon.

PURCHASE
Pur"chase, v. i.

1. To put forth effort to obtain anything; to strive; to exert one's
self. [Obs.]
Duke John of Brabant purchased greatly that the Earl of Flanders
should have his daughter in marriage. Ld. Berners.

2. To acquire wealth or property. [Obs.]
Sure our lawyers Would not purchase half so fast. J. Webster.

PURCHASE
Pur"chase (; 48), n. Etym: [OE. purchds, F. pourchas eager pursuit.
See Purchase, v. t.]

1. The act of seeking, getting, or obtaining anything. [Obs.]
I'll . . . get meat to have thee, Or lose my life in the purchase.
Beau. & Fl.

2. The act of seeking and acquiring property.

3. The acquisition of title to, or properly in, anything for a price;
buying for money or its equivalent.
It is foolish to lay out money in the purchase of repentance.
Franklin.

4. That which is obtained, got, or acquired, in any manner, honestly
or dishonestly; property; possession; acquisition. Chaucer. B.
Jonson.
We met with little purchase upon this coast, except two small vessels
of Golconda. De Foe.
A beauty-waning and distressed widow . . . Made prize and purchase of
his lustful eye. Shak.

5. That which is obtained for a price in money or its equivalent.
"The scrip was complete evidence of his right in the purchase."
Wheaton.

6. Any mechanical hold, or advantage, applied to the raising or
removing of heavy bodies, as by a lever, a tackle, capstan, and the
like; also, the apparatus, tackle, or device by which the advantage
is gained.
A politician, to do great things, looks for a power -- what our
workmen call a purchase. Burke.

7. (Law)

Defn: Acquisition of lands or tenements by other means than descent
or inheritance, namely, by one's own act or agreement. Blackstone.
Purchase criminal, robbery. [Obs.] Spenser.
 -- Purchase money, the money paid, or contracted to be paid, for
anything bought. Berkeley.
 -- Worth, or At, [so many] years' purchase, a phrase by which the
value or cost of a thing is expressed in the length of time required
for the income to amount to the purchasing price; as, he bought the
estate at a twenty years' purchase. To say one's life is not worth a
day's purchase in the same as saying one will not live a day, or is
in imminent peril.

PURCHASER
Pur"chas*er, n.

1. One who purchases; one who acquires property for a consideration,
generally of money; a buyer; a vendee.

2. (Law)

Defn: One who acquires an estate in lands by his own act or
agreement, or who takes or obtains an estate by any means other than
by descent or inheritance.

PURDAH
Pur"dah, n. Etym: [Per. parda a curtain.]

Defn: A curtain or screen; also, a cotton fabric in blue and white
stripes, used for curtains. McElrath.

PURE
Pure, a. [Compar. Purer; superl. Purest.] Etym: [OE. pur, F. pur, fr.
L. purus; akin to putus pure, clear, putare to clean, trim, prune,
set in order, settle, reckon, consider, think, Skr. p to clean, and
perh. E. fire. Cf. Putative.]

1. Separate from all heterogeneous or extraneous matter; free from
mixture or combination; clean; mere; simple; unmixed; as, pure water;
pure clay; pure air; pure compassion.
The pure fetters on his shins great. Chaucer.
A guinea is pure gold if it has in it no alloy. I. Watts.

2. Free from moral defilement or quilt; hence, innocent; guileless;
chaste; -- applied to persons. "Keep thyself pure." 1 Tim. v. 22.
Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart, and of
a good conscience. 1 Tim. i. 5.

3. Free from that which harms, vitiates, weakens, or pollutes;
genuine; real; perfect; -- applied to things and actions. "Pure
religion and impartial laws." Tickell. "The pure, fine talk of Rome."
Ascham.
Such was the origin of a friendship as warm and pure as any that
ancient or modern history records. Macaulay.

4. (Script.)

Defn: Ritually clean; fitted for holy services.
Thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table
before the Lord. Lev. xxiv. 6.

5. (Phonetics)

Defn: Of a single, simple sound or tone; -- said of some vowels and
the unaspirated consonants. Pure-impure, completely or totally
impure. "The inhabitants were pure-impure pagans." Fuller.
 -- Pure blue. (Chem.) See Methylene blue, under Methylene.
 -- Pure chemistry. See under Chemistry.
 -- Pure mathematics, that portion of mathematics which treats of the
principles of the science, or contradistinction to applied
mathematics, which treats of the application of the principles to the
investigation of other branches of knowledge, or to the practical
wants of life. See Mathematics. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ) -- Pure
villenage (Feudal Law), a tenure of lands by uncertain services at
the will of the lord. Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- Unmixed; clear; simple; real; true; genuine; unadulterated;
uncorrupted; unsullied; untarnished; unstained; stainless; clean;
fair; unspotted; spotless; incorrupt; chaste; unpolluted; undefiled;
immaculate; innocent; guiltless; guileless; holy.

PURED
Pured, a.

Defn: Purified; refined. [Obs.] "Bread of pured wheat." "Pured gold."
Chaucer.

PUREE
Pu`rée", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A dish made by boiling any article of food to a pulp and
rubbing it through a sieve; as, a purée of fish, or of potatoes;
especially, a soup the thickening of which is so treated.

PURELY
Pure"ly, adv.

1. In a pure manner (in any sense of the adjective).

2. Nicely; prettily. [Archaic] Halliwell.

PURENESS
Pure"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being pure (in any sense of the adjective).

PURFILE
Pur"file, n. Etym: [See Purfle.]

Defn: A sort of ancient trimming of tinsel and thread for women's
gowns; -- called also bobbinwork. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

PURFLE
Pur"fle, v. t. Etym: [OF. pourfiler; pour for + fil a thread, L.
filum. See Profile, and cf. Purl a border.]

1. To decorate with a wrought or flowered border; to embroider; to
ornament with metallic threads; as, to purfle with blue and white. P.
Plowman.
A goodly lady clad in scarlet red, Purfled with gold and pearl of
rich assay. Spenser.

2. (Her.)

Defn: To ornament with a bordure of emines, furs, and the like; also,
with gold studs or mountings.

PURFLE; PURFLEW
Pur"fle, Pur"flew, n.

1. A hem, border., or trimming, as of embroidered work.

2. (Her.)

Defn: A border of any heraldic fur.

PURFLED
Pur"fled, a.

Defn: Ornamented; decorated; esp., embroidered on the edges. Purfled
work (Arch.), delicate tracery, especially in Gothic architecture.

PURFLING
Pur"fling, n.

Defn: Ornamentation on the border of a thing; specifically, the
inlaid border of a musical instrument, as a violin.

PURGAMENT
Pur"ga*ment, n. Etym: [L. purgamentum offscourings, washings,
expiatory sacrifice. See Purge.]

1. That which is excreted; excretion. [Obs.]

2. (Med.)

Defn: A cathartic; a purgative. [Obs.] Bacon.

PURGATION
Pur*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. purgatio: cf. F. purgation. See Purge.]

1. The act of purging; the act of clearing, cleansing, or putifying,
by separating and carrying off impurities, or whatever is
superfluous; the evacuation of the bowels.

2. (Law)

Defn: The clearing of one's self from a crime of which one was
publicly suspected and accused. It was either canonical, which was
prescribed by the canon law, the form whereof used in the spiritual
court was, that the person suspected take his oath that he was clear
of the matter objected against him, and bring his honest neighbors
with him to make oath that they believes he swore truly; or vulgar,
which was by fire or water ordeal, or by combat. See Ordeal. Wharton.
Let him put me to my purgation. Shak.

PURGATIVE
Pur"ga*tive, a Etym: [L. purgativus: cf. F. purgatif.]

Defn: Having the power or quality of purging; cathartic.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A purging medicine; a cathartic.

PURGATIVELY
Pur"ga*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a purgative manner.

PURGATORIAL; PURGATORIAN
Pur`ga*to"ri*al, Pur`ga*to"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to purgatory; expiatory.

PURGATORIAN
Pur`ga*to"ri*an, n.

Defn: One who holds to the doctrine of purgatory. Boswell.

PURGATORY
Pur"ga*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. purgatorius.]

Defn: Tending to cleanse; cleansing; expiatory. Burke.

PURGATORY
Pur"ga*to*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. purgatoire.]

Defn: A state or place of purification after death; according to the
Roman Catholic creed, a place, or a state believed to exist after
death, in which the souls of persons are purified by expiating such
offenses committed in this life as do not merit eternal damnation, or
in which they fully satisfy the justice of God for sins that have
been forgiven. After this purgation from the impurities of sin, the
souls are believed to be received into heaven.

PURGE
Purge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Purged; p. pr. & vb. n. Purging.] Etym:
[F. purger, L. purgare; purus pure + agere to make, to do. See Pure,
and Agent.]

1. To cleanse, clear, or purify by separating and carrying off
whatever is impure, heterogeneous, foreign, or superfluous. "Till
fire purge all things new." Milton.

2. (Med.)

Defn: To operate on as, or by means of, a cathartic medicine, or in a
similar manner.

3. To clarify; to defecate, as liquors.

4. To clear of sediment, as a boiler, or of air, as a steam pipe, by
driving off or permitting escape.

5. To clear from guilt, or from moral or ceremonial defilement; as,
to purge one of guilt or crime.
When that he hath purged you from sin. Chaucer.
Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Ps. li. 7.

6. (Law)

Defn: To clear from accusation, or the charge of a crime or
misdemeanor, as by oath or in ordeal.

7. To remove in cleansing; to deterge; to wash away; -- often
followed by away.
Purge away our sins, for thy name's sake. Ps. lxxix. 9.
We 'll join our cares to purge away Our country's crimes. Addison.

PURGE
Purge, v. i.

1. To become pure, as by clarification.

2. To have or produce frequent evacuations from the intestines, as by
means of a cathartic.

PURGE
Purge, n. Etym: [Cf. F. purge. See Purge, v. t.]

1. The act of purging.
The preparative for the purge of paganism of the kingdom of
Northumberland. Fuller.

2. That which purges; especially, a medicine that evacuates the
intestines; a cathartic. Arbuthnot.

PURGER
Pur"ger, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, purges or cleanses; especially, a
cathartic medicine.

PURGERY
Pur"ger*y, n.

Defn: The part of a sugarhouse where the molasses is drained off from
the sugar.

PURGING
Pur"ging, a.

Defn: That purges; cleansing. Purging flax (Bot.), an annual European
plant of the genus Linum (L. catharticum); dwarf wild flax; -- so
called from its use as a cathartic medicine.

PURGING
Pur"ging, n. (Med.)

Defn: The act of cleansing; excessive evacuations; especially,
diarrhea.

PURI
Pur"i, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Euxanthin.

PURIFICATION
Pu`ri*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [F. purification, L. purificatio. See
Purify.]

1. The act of purifying; the act or operation of separating and
removing from anything that which is impure or noxious, or
heterogeneous or foreign to it; as, the purification of liquors, or
of metals.

2. The act or operation of cleansing ceremonially, by removing any
pollution or defilement.
When the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were
accomplished. Luke ii. 22.

3. A cleansing from guilt or the pollution of sin; the extinction of
sinful desires, appetites, and inclinations.

PURIFICATIVE
Pu"ri*fi*ca*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. purificatif.]

Defn: Having power to purify; tending to cleanse. [R.]

PURIFICATOR
Pu"ri*fi*ca`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, purifies; a purifier.

PURIFICATORY
Pu*rif"i*ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. purificatorius.]

Defn: Serving or tending to purify; purificative.

PURIFIER
Pu"ri*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, purifies or cleanses; a cleanser; a
refiner.

PURIFORM
Pu"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. pus, puris, pus + -form: cf. F. puriforme.]
(Med.)

Defn: In the form of pus.

PURIFY
Pu"ri*fy v. t. [imp. & p. p. Purified; p. pr. & vb. n. Purifying.]
Etym: [F.purifier, L. purificare; purus pure + -ficare (in comp.) to
make. See Pure, and -fy.]

1. To make pure or clear from material defilement, admixture, or
imperfection; to free from extraneous or noxious matter; as, to
purify liquors or metals; to purify the blood; to purify the air.

2. Hence, in figurative uses: (a) To free from guilt or moral
defilement; as, to purify the heart.
And fit them so Purified to receive him pure. Milton.

(b) To free from ceremonial or legal defilement.
And Moses took the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, . .
. and purified the altar. Lev. viii. 15.
Purify both yourselves and your captives. Num. xxxi. 19.

(c) To free from improprieties or barbarisms; as, to purify a
language. Sprat.

PURIFY
Pu"ri*fy, v. i.

Defn: To grow or become pure or clear.

PURIM
Pu"rim, n. Etym: [Heb. pur, pl. purim, a lot.]

Defn: A Jewish festival, called also the Feast of Lots, instituted to
commemorate the deliverance of the Jews from the machinations of
Haman. Esther ix. 26.

PURISM
Pur"ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. purisme.]

Defn: Rigid purity; the quality of being affectedly pure or nice,
especially in the choice of language; over-solicitude as to purity.
"His political purism." De Quincey.
The English language, however, . . . had even already become too
thoroughly and essentially a mixed tongue for his doctrine of purism
to be admitted to the letter. Craik.

PURIST
Pur"ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. puriste.]

1. One who aims at excessive purity or nicety, esp. in the choice of
language.
He [Fox] . . . purified vocabulary with a scrupulosity unknown to any
purist. Macaulay.

2. One who maintains that the New Testament was written in pure
Greek. M. Stuart.

PURISTIC; PURISTICAL
Pu*ris"tic, Pu*ris"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to purists or purism.

PURITAN
Pu"ri*tan, n. Etym: [From Purity.]

1. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who, in the time of Queen Elizabeth and the first two
Stuarts, opposed traditional and formal usages, and advocated simpler
forms of faith and worship than those established by law; --
originally, a term of reproach. The Puritans formed the bulk of the
early population of New England.

Note: The Puritans were afterward distinguished as Political
Puritans, Doctrinal Puritans, and Puritans in Discipline. Hume.

2. One who is scrupulous and strict in his religious life; -- often
used reproachfully or in contempt; one who has overstrict notions.
She would make a puritan of the devil. Shak.

PURITAN
Pu"ri*tan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Puritans; resembling, or characteristic
of, the Puritans.

PURITANIC; PURITANICAL
Pu`ri*tan"ic, Pu`ri*tan"ic*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the Puritans, or to their doctrines and
practice.

2. Precise in observance of legal or religious requirements; strict;
overscrupulous; rigid; -- often used by way of reproach or contempt.
Paritanical circles, from which plays and novels were strictly
excluded. Macaulay.
He had all the puritanic traits, both good and evil. Hawthorne.

PURITANICALLY
Pu`ri*tan"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a puritanical manner.

PURITANISM
Pu"ri*tan*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines, notions, or practice of Puritans.

PURITANIZE
Pu"ri*tan*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Puritanized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Puritanizing.]

Defn: To agree with, or teach, the doctrines of Puritans; to conform
to the practice of Puritans. Bp. Montagu.

PURITY
Pu"ri*ty, n. Etym: [OE. purete, purte, OF. purté, F. pureté, from L.
puritas, fr. purus pure. See Pure.]

Defn: The condition of being pure. Specifically:
(a) freedom from foreign admixture or deleterious matter; as, the
purity of water, of wine, of drugs, of metals.
(b) Cleanness; freedom from foulness or dirt. "The purity of a linen
vesture." Holyday.
(c) Freedom from guilt or the defilement of sin; innocence; chastity;
as, purity of heart or of life.
(d) Freedom from any sinister or improper motives or views.
(e) Freedom from foreign idioms, or from barbarous or improper words
or phrases; as, purity of style.

PURKINJE'S CELLS
Pur"kin*je's cells`. Etym: [From J. E. Purkinje, their discoverer.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Large ganglion cells forming a layer near the surface of the
cerebellum.

PURL
Purl, v. t. Etym: [Contr. fr. purfile, purfle. See Purfle.]

Defn: To decorate with fringe or embroidery. "Nature's cradle more
enchased and purled." B. Jonson.

PURL
Purl, n.

1. An embroidered and puckered border; a hem or fringe, often of gold
or silver twist; also, a pleat or fold, as of a band.
A triumphant chariot made of carnation velvet, enriched withpurl and
pearl. Sir P. Sidney
.

2. An inversion of stitches in knitting, which gives to the work a
ribbed or waved appearance. Purl stitch. Same as Purl, n., 2.

PURL
Purl, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Purled; p. pr. & vb. n. Purling.] Etym:
[Cf. Sw. porla, and E. pur to murmur as a cat.]

1. To run swiftly round, as a small stream flowing among stones or
other obstructions; to eddy; also, to make a murmuring sound, as
water does in running over or through obstructions.
Swift o'er the rolling pebbles, down the hills, Louder and louder
purl the falling rills. Pope.

2. Etym: [Perh. fr. F. perler to pearl, to bead. See Pearl, v. & n.]

Defn: To rise in circles, ripples, or undulations; to curl; to
mantle.
thin winding breath which purled up to the sky. Shak.

PURL
Purl, n. Etym: [See 3d Purl.]

1. A circle made by the notion of a fluid; an eddy; a ripple.
Whose stream an easy breath doth seem to blow, Which on the sparkling
gravel runs in purles, As though the waves had been of silver curls.
Drayton.

2. A gentle murmur, as that produced by the running of a liquid among
obstructions; as, the purl of a brook.

3. Etym: [Perh. from F.perler, v. See Purl to mantle.]

Defn: Malt liquor, medicated or spiced; formerly, ale or beer in
which wormwood or other bitter herbs had been infused, and which was
regarded as tonic; at present, hot beer mixed with gin, sugar, and
spices. "Drank a glass of purl to recover appetite." Addison.
"Drinking hot purl, and smoking pipes." Dickens.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tern. [Prov. Eng.]

PURLIEU
Pur"lieu, n. Etym: [Corrupted (by influence of lieu place) fr. OF.
puralée, poralée (equiv. to LL. perambulatio a survey of boundaries,
originally, a going through); por (L. pro, confused, however, with L.
per through) + alée. See Pro-, and Alley.] [Written also pourlieu.]

1. Originally, the ground near a royal forest, which, having been
unlawfully added to the forest, was afterwards severed from it, and
disafforested so as to remit to the former owners their rights.
Then as a tiger, who by chance hath spied In some purlieu two gentle
fawns at play. Milton.

2. Hence, the outer portion of any place; an adjacent district;
environs; neighborhood. "The purlieus of St. James."
brokers had been incessantly plying for custom in the purlieus of the
court. Macaulay.

PURLIN; PURLINE
Pur"lin, Pur"line, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Arch.)

Defn: In root construction, a horizontal member supported on the
principals and supporting the common rafters.

PURLING
Purl"ing, n. Etym: [See 3d Purl.]

Defn: The motion of a small stream running among obstructions; also,
the murmur it makes in so doing.

PURLOIN
Pur*loin", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Purloined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Purloining.] Etym: [OF. purloignier, porloignier, to retard, delay;
pur, por, pour, for (L. pro) + loin far, far off (L. longe). See
Prolong, and cf. Eloign.]

Defn: To take or carry away for one's self; hence, to steal; to take
by theft; to filch.
Had from his wakeful custody purloined The guarded gold. Milton.
when did the muse from Fletcher scenes purloin Dryden.

PURLOIN
Pur*loin", v. i.

Defn: To practice theft; to steal. Titus ii. 10.

PURLOINER
Pur*loin"er, n.

Defn: One who purloins. Swift.

PURPARTY
Pur"par`ty, n. Etym: [OF. pourpartie; pour for + partie a part; cf.
OF. purpart a respective part.] (Law)

Defn: A share, part, or portion of an estate allotted to a
coparcener. [Written also purpart, and pourparty.]
I am forced to eat all the game of your purparties, as well as my own
thirds. Walpole.

PURPLE
Pur"ple, n.; pl. Purples. Etym: [OE. purpre, pourpre, OF. purpre,
porpre, pourpre, F. pourpre, L. purpura purple fish, purple dye, fr.
Gr. furere to rage, E. fury: cf. AS. purpure. Cf. Porphyry, Purpure.]

1. A color formed by, or resembling that formed by, a combination of
the primary colors red and blue.
Arraying with reflected purple and gold The clouds that on his
western throne attend. Milton.

Note: The ancient words which are translated purple are supposed to
have been used for the color we call crimson. In the gradations of
color as defined in art, purple is a mixture of red and blue. When
red predominates it is called violet, and when blue predominates,
hyacinth.

2. Cloth dyed a purple color, or a garment of such color; especially,
a purple robe, worn as an emblem of rank or authority; specifically,
the purple rode or mantle worn by Roman emperors as the emblem of
imperial dignity; as, to put on the imperial purple.
Thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined
linen, and purple, and scarlet. Ex. xxvi. 1.

3. Hence: Imperial sovereignty; royal rank, dignity, or favor;
loosely and colloquially, any exalted station; great wealth. "He was
born in the purple." Gibbon.

4. A cardinalate. See Cardinal.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of large butterflies, usually marked with purple or
blue, of the genus Basilarchia (formerly Limenitis) as, the banded
purple (B. arthemis). See Illust. under Ursula.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any shell of the genus Purpura.

7. pl.(Med.)

Defn: See Purpura.

8. pl.

Defn: A disease of wheat. Same as Earcockle.

Note: Purple is sometimes used in composition, esp. with participles
forming words of obvious signification; as, purple-colored, purple-
hued, purple-stained, purple-tinged, purple-tinted, and the like.
French purple. (Chem.) Same as Cudbear.
 -- Purple of Cassius. See Cassius.
 -- Purple of mollusca (Zoöl.), a coloring matter derived from
certain mollusks, which dyes wool, etc., of a purple or crimson
color, and is supposed to be the substance of the famous Tyrian dye.
It is obtained from Ianthina, and from several species of Purpura,
and Murex.
 -- To be born in the purple, to be of princely birth; to be
highborn.

PURPLE
Pur"ple, a.

1. Exhibiting or possessing the color called purple, much esteemed
for its richness and beauty; of a deep red, or red and blue color;
as, a purple robe.

2. Imperial; regal; -- so called from the color having been an emblem
of imperial authority.
Hide in the dust thy purple pride. Shelley.

3. Blood-red; bloody.
May such purple tears be alway shed. Shak.
I view a field of blood, And Tiber rolling with a purple blood.
Dryden.
Purple bird (Zoöl.), the European purple gallinule. See under
Gallinule.
 -- Purple copper ore. (Min.) See Bornite.
 -- Purple grackle (Zoöl.), the crow blackbird. See under Crow.
 -- Purple martin. See under Martin.
 -- Purple sandpiper. See under Sandpiper.
 -- Purple shell. See Ianthina.

PURPLE
Pur"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Purpled; p. pr. & vb. n. Purpling.]

Defn: To make purple; to dye of purple or deep red color; as, hands
purpled with blood.
When morn Purples the east. Milton.
Reclining soft in blissful bowers, Purpled sweet with springing
flowers. Fenton.

PURPLEHEART
Pur"ple*heart`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A strong, durable, and elastic wood of a purplish color,
obtained from several tropical American leguminous trees of the genus
Copaifera (C. pubiflora, bracteata, and officinalis). Used for
decorative veneering. See Copaiba.

PURPLEWOOD
Pur"ple*wood`, n.

Defn: Same as Purpleheart.

PURPLISH
Pur"plish, a.

Defn: Somewhat purple. Boyle.

PURPORT
Pur"port, n. Etym: [OF. purport; pur, pour, for (L. pro) + porter to
bear, carry. See Port demeanor.]

1. Design or tendency; meaning; import; tenor.
The whole scope and purport of that dialogue. Norris. With a look so
piteous in purport As if he had been loosed out of hell. Shak.

2. Disguise; covering. [Obs.]
For she her sex under that strange purport Did use to hide. Spenser.

PURPORT
Pur"port, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Purported; p. pr. & vb. n. Purporting.]
Etym: [OF. purporter, pourporter. See Purport, n.]

Defn: To intend to show; to intend; to mean; to signify; to import; -
- often with an object clause or infinitive.
They in most grave and solemn wise unfolded Matter which little
purported. Rowe.

PURPORTLESS
Pur"port*less, a.

Defn: Without purport or meaning.

PURPOSE
Pur"pose, n. Etym: [OF. purpos, pourpos, propos, L. propositum. See
Propound.]

1. That which a person sets before himself as an object to be reached
or accomplished; the end or aim to which the view is directed in any
plan, measure, or exertion; view; aim; design; intention; plan.
He will his firste purpos modify. Chaucer.
As my eternal purpose hath decreed. Milton.
The flighty purpose never is o'ertook Unless the deed go with it.
Shak.

2. Proposal to another; discourse. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. Instance; example. [Obs.] L'Estrange. In purpose, Of purpose, On
purpose, with previous design; with the mind directed to that object;
intentionally. On purpose is the form now generally used.

Syn.
 -- design; end; intention; aim. See Design.

PURPOSE
Pur"pose, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Purposed; p. pr. & vb. n. Purposing.]
Etym: [OF. purposer, proposer. See Propose.]

1. To set forth; to bring forward. [Obs.]

2. To propose, as an aim, to one's self; to determine upon, as some
end or object to be accomplished; to intend; to design; to resolve; -
- often followed by an infinitive or dependent clause. Chaucer.
Did nothing purpose against the state. Shak.
I purpose to write the history of England from the accession of King
James the Second down to a time which is within the memory of men
still living. Macaulay.

PURPOSE
Pur"pose, v. i.

Defn: To have a purpose or intention; to discourse. [Obs.] Spenser.

PURPOSEDLY
Pur"posed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a purposed manner; according to purpose or design;
purposely.
A poem composed purposedly of the Trojan war. Holland.

PURPOSEFUL
Pur"pose*ful, a.

Defn: Important; material. "Purposeful accounts." Tylor.
 -- Pur"pose*ful*ly, adv.

PURPOSELESS
Pur"pose*less, a.

Defn: Having no purpose or result; objectless. Bp. Hall.
 -- Pur"pose*less*ness, n.

PURPOSELY
Pur"pose*ly, adv.

Defn: With purpose or design; intentionally; with predetermination;
designedly.
In composing this discourse, I purposely declined all offensive and
displeasing truths. Atterbury.
So much they scorn the crowd, that if the throng By chance go right,
they purposely go wrong. Pope.

PURPOSER
Pur"pos*er, n.

1. One who brings forward or proposes anything; a proposer. [Obs.]

2. One who forms a purpose; one who intends.

PURPOSIVE
Pur"po*sive, a.

Defn: Having or indicating purpose or design. "Purposive characters."
Bastian.
Purposive modification of structure in a bone. Owen.
It is impossible that the frog should perform actions morepurposive
than these. Huxley.

PURPRE
Pur"pre, n. & a.

Defn: Purple. [Obs.] Chaucer.

PURPRESTURE
Pur*pres"ture, n. Etym: [Probably corrupted (see Prest) fr. OF.
pourprisure, fr. pourprendre: cf. LL. purprestura. Cf. Purprise.]
(Law)

Defn: Wrongful encroachment upon another's property; esp., any
encroachment upon, or inclosure of, that which should be common or
public, as highways, rivers, harbors, forts, etc. [Written also
pourpresture.]

PURPRISE
Pur"prise, n. Etym: [OF. pourpris,fr. pourprendre to take away
entirely; pour for + prendre to take.]

Defn: A close or inclosure; the compass of a manor. Bacon.

PURPURA
Pur"pu*ra, n. Etym: [L., purple, purple fish: cf. F. purpura. See
Purple.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A disease characterized by livid spots on the skin from
extravasated blood, with loss of muscular strength, pain in the
limbs, and mental dejection; the purples. Dunglison.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine gastropods, usually having a rough and thick
shell. Some species yield a purple dye.

PURPURATE
Pur"pu*rate, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to purpura.

PURPURATE
Pur"pu*rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of purpuric acid.

PURPURE
Pur"pure, n. Etym: [L. purpura purple. See Purple.] (Her.)

Defn: Purple, -- represented in engraving by diagonal lines declining
from the right top to the left base of the escutcheon (or from
sinister chief to dexter base).

PURPUREAL
Pur*pu"re*al, a.

Defn: Of a purple color; purple.

PURPUREO-
Pur*pu"re*o-.

Defn: A combining form signifying of a purple or purple-red color.
Specif. (Chem.), used in designating certain brilliant purple-red
compounds of cobaltic chloride and ammonia, similar to the
roseocobaltic compounds. See Cobaltic.

PURPURIC
Pur*pu"ric, a. Etym: [Cf. F. purpurique.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to purpura. Dunglison.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to or designating, a nitrogenous acid contained in
uric acid. It is not known in the pure state, but forms well-known
purple-red compounds (as murexide), whence its name.

Note: Purpuric acid was formerly used to designate murexan. See
Murexan.

PURPURIN
Pur"pu*rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A dyestuff resembling alizarin, found in madder root, and
extracted as an orange or red crystalline substance.

PURPURIPAROUS
Pur`pu*rip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. purpura purple + parere to produce.]
(Biol.)

Defn: Producing, or connected with, a purple-colored secretion; as,
the purpuriparous gland of certain gastropods.

PURPUROGENOUS
Pur`pu*rog"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. purpura purple + -genous.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having the power to produce a purple color; as, the
purpurogenous membrane, or choroidal epithelium, of the eye. See
Visual purple, under Visual.

PURR
Purr, v. i. & t.

Defn: To murmur as a cat. See Pur.

PURR
Purr, n.

Defn: The low murmuring sound made by a cat; pur. See Pur.

PURRE
Purre, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The dunlin. [Prov. Eng.]

PURREE
Pur"ree, n. Etym: [Hind. peori yellow.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow coloring matter. See Euxanthin.

PURROCK
Pur"rock, n.

Defn: See Puddock, and Parrock.

PURSE
Purse, n. Etym: [OE. purs, pors, OF. burse, borse, bourse, F. bourse,
LL. bursa, fr. Gr. Bourse, Bursch, Bursar, Buskin.]

1. A small bag or pouch, the opening of which is made to draw
together closely, used to carry money in; by extension, any
receptacle for money carried on the person; a wallet; a pocketbook; a
portemonnaie. Chaucer.
Who steals my purse steals trash. Shak.

2. Hence, a treasury; finances; as, the public purse.

3. A sum of money offered as a prize, or collected as a present; as,
to win the purse; to make up a purse.

4. A specific sum of money; as:
(a) In Turkey, the sum of 500 piasters.
(b) In Persia, the sum of 50 tomans. Light purse, or Empty purse,
poverty or want of resources.
 -- Long purse, or Heavy purse, wealth; riches.
 -- Purse crab (Zoöl.), any land crab of the genus Birgus, allied to
the hermit crabs. They sometimes weigh twenty pounds or more, and are
very strong, being able to crack cocoanuts with the large claw. They
chiefly inhabit the tropical islands of the Pacific and Indian
Oceans, living in holes and feeding upon fruit. Called also palm
crab.
 -- Purse net, a fishing net, the mouth of which may be closed or
drawn together like a purse. Mortimer. Purse pride, pride of money;
insolence proceeding from the possession of wealth. Bp. Hall.
 -- Purse rat. (Zoöl.) See Pocket gopher, under Pocket.
 -- Sword and purse, the military power and financial resources of a
nation.

PURSE
Purse, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pursed; p. pr. & vb. n. Pursing.]

1. To put into a purse.
I will go and purse the ducats straight. Shak.

2. To draw up or contract into folds or wrinkles, like the mouth of a
purse; to pucker; to knit.
Thou . . . didst contract and purse thy brow. Shak.

PURSE
Purse, v. i.

Defn: To steal purses; to rob. [Obs. & R.]
I'll purse: . . . I'll bet at bowling alleys. Beau. & Fl.

PURSEFUL
Purse"ful, n.; pl. Pursefuls (.

Defn: All that is, or can be, contained in a purse; enough to fill a
purse.

PURSE-PROUD
Purse"-proud`, a.

Defn: Affected with purse pride; puffed up with the possession of
riches.

PURSER
Purs"er, n. Etym: [See Purse, and cf. Bursar.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A commissioned officer in the navy who had charge of the
provisions, clothing, and public moneys on shipboard; -- now called
paymaster.

2. A clerk on steam passenger vessels whose duty it is to keep the
accounts of the vessels, such as the receipt of freight, tickets,
etc.

3. Colloquially, any paymaster or cashier. Purser's name (Naut.), a
false name. [Slang]

PURSERSHIP
Purs"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of purser. Totten.

PURSET
Purs"et, n.

Defn: A purse or purse net. B. Jonson.

PURSINESS
Pur"si*ness, n.

Defn: State of being pursy.

PURSIVE
Pur"sive, a.

Defn: Pursy. [Obs.] Holland.

PURSIVENESS
Pur"sive*ness, n.

Defn: Pursiness. [Obs. & R.]

PURSLAIN
Purs"lain, n.

Defn: Same as Purslane.

PURSLANE
Purs"lane, n. Etym: [OF. porcelaine, pourcelaine (cf. It.
porcellana), corrupted fr. L. porcilaca for portulaca.] (Bot.)

Defn: An annual plant (Portulaca oleracea), with fleshy, succulent,
obovate leaves, sometimes used as a pot herb and for salads,
garnishing, and pickling. Flowering purslane, or Great flowered
purslane, the Portulaca grandiflora. See Portulaca.
 -- Purslane tree, a South African shrub (Portulacaria Afra) with
many small opposite fleshy obovate leaves.
 -- Sea purslane, a seashore plant (Arenaria peploides) with crowded
opposite fleshy leaves.
 -- Water purslane, an aquatic plant (Ludwiqia palustris) but
slightly resembling purslane.

PURSUABLE
Pur*su"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being, or fit to be, pursued, followed, or
prosecuted. Sherwood.

PURSUAL
Pur*su"al, n.

Defn: The act of pursuit. [R.]

PURSUANCE
Pur*su"ance, n. Etym: [See Pursuant.]

1. The act of pursuing or prosecuting; a following out or after.
Sermons are not like curious inquiries after new nothings, but
pursuances of old truths. Jer. Taylor.

2. The state of being pursuant; consequence. In pursuance of, in
accordance with; in prosecution or fulfillment of.

PURSUANT
Pur*su"ant, a. Etym: [From Pursue: cf. OE. poursuiant. Cf.
Pursuivant.]

Defn: Acting in consequence or in prosecution (of anything); hence,
agreeable; conformable; following; according; -- with to or of.
The conclusion which I draw from these premises, pursuant to the
query laid down, is, etc. Waterland.

PURSUANT; PURSUANTLY
Pur*su"ant, Pur*su"ant*ly, adv.

Defn: Agreeably; conformably.

PURSUE
Pur*sue", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pursued; p. pr. & vb. n. Pursuing.]
Etym: [OE. pursuen, porsuen, OF. porsivre, poursuivre, poursuir, F.
poursuivre, fr. L. prosequi; pro forward + sequi to follow. See Sue,
and cf. Prosecute, Pursuivant.]

1. To follow with a view to overtake; to follow eagerly, or with
haste; to chase; as, to pursue a hare.
We happiness pursue; we fly from pain. Prior.
The happiness of men lies in purswing, Not in possessing. Longfellow.

2. To seek; to use or adopt measures to obtain; as, to pursue a
remedy at law.
The fame of ancient matrons you pursue. Dryden.

3. To proceed along, with a view to some and or object; to follow; to
go in; as, Captain Cook pursued a new route; the administration
pursued a wise course.

4. To prosecute; to be engaged in; to continue. " Insatiate to pursue
vain war." Milton.

5. To follow as an example; to imitate.

6. To follow with enmity; to persecute; to call to account.
The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have pursued me,
they shall pursue you also. Wyclif (John xv. 20).

Syn.
 -- To follow; chase; seek; persist. See Follow.

PURSUE
Pur*sue", v. i.

1. To go in pursuit; to follow.
The wicked flee when no man pursueth. Prov. xxviii. 1.
Men hotly pursued after the objects of their ambition. Earle.

2. To go on; to proceed, especially in argument or discourse; to
continue.

Note: [A Gallicism]
I have, pursues Carneades, wondered chemists should not consider.
Boyle.

3. (Law)

Defn: To follow a matter judicially, as a complaining party; to act
as a prosecutor. Burrill.

PURSUER
Pur*su"er, n.

1. One who pursues or chases; one who follows in haste, with a view
to overtake.

2. (Eccl. & Scots Law)

Defn: A plaintiff; a prosecutor.

PURSUIT
Pur*suit", n. Etym: [F. poursuite, fr. poursuivre. See Pursue, v. t.]

1. The act of following or going after; esp., a following with haste,
either for sport or in hostility; chase; prosecution; as, the pursuit
of game; the pursuit of an enemy. Clarendon.
Weak we are, and can not shun pursuit. Shak.

2. A following with a view to reach, accomplish, or obtain; endeavor
to attain to or gain; as, the pursuit of knowledge; the pursuit of
happiness or pleasure.

3. Course of business or occupation; continued employment with a view
to same end; as, mercantile pursuits; a literary pursuit.

4. (Law)

Defn: Prosecution. [Obs.]
That pursuit for tithes ought, and of ancient time did pertain to the
spiritual court. Fuller.
Curve of pursuit (Geom.), a curve described by a point which is at
each instant moving towards a second point, which is itself moving
according to some specified law.

PURSUIVANT
Pur"sui*vant, n. Etym: [F. poursuivant, fr. poursuivre. See Pursue,
and cf. Pursuant.] [Written also poursuivant.]

1. (Heralds' College)

Defn: A functionary of lower rank than a herald, but discharging
similar duties; -- called also pursuivant at arms; an attendant of
the heralds. Also used figuratively.
The herald Hope, forerunning Fear, And Fear, the pursuivant of Hope.
Longfellow.

2. The king's messenger; a state messenger.
One pursuivant who attempted to execute a warrant there was murdered.
Macaulay.

PURSUIVANT
Pur"sui*vant, v. t.

Defn: To pursue. [Obs. & R.]
Their navy was pursuivanted after with a horrible tempest. Fuller.

PURSY
Pur"sy, a. Etym: [OF. pourcif, poulsif, poussif, fr. pousser to push,
thrust, heave, OF. also poulser: cf. F. pousse the heaves, asthma.
See Push.]

Defn: Fat and short-breathed; fat, short, and thick; swelled with
pampering; as, pursy insolence. Shak.
Pursy important he sat him down. Sir W. Scot.

PURTENANCE
Pur"te*nance, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. appurtenance.]

Defn: That which pertains or belongs to something; esp., the heard,
liver, and lungs of an animal. [Obs.] " The purtenaunces of
purgatory." Piers Plowman.
Roast [it] with fire, his head with his legs, and with the purtenance
[Rev. Ver., inwards] thereof. Ex. xii. 9.

PURULENCE; PURULENCY
Pu"ru*lence, Pu"ru*len*cy, n. Etym: [L. purulentia: cf. F.
purulence.] (Med.)

Defn: The quality or state of being purulent; the generation of pus;
also, the pus itself. Arbuthnot.

PURULENT
Pu"ru*lent, a. Etym: [L. purulentus, fr. pus, puris, pus, matter: cf.
F. purulent. See Pus.] (Med.)

Defn: Consisting of pus, or matter; partaking of the nature of pus;
attended with suppuration; as, purulent inflammation.

PURULENTLY
Pu"ru*lent*ly, v.

Defn: In a purulent manner.

PURVEANCE; PURVEIAUNCE
Pur"ve*ance, Pur"vei*aunce`, n.

Defn: Purveyance. [Obs.] Chaucer.

PURVEY
Pur*vey", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Purveyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Purveying.]
Etym: [OE. purveien, porveien, OF. porveeir, porveoir, F. pourvoir,
fr. L. providere. See Provide, and cf. Purview.]

1. To furnish or provide, as with a convenience, provisions, or the
like.
Give no odds to your foes, but do purvey Yourself of sword before
that bloody day. Spenser.

2. To procure; to get.
I mean to purvey me a wife after the fashion of the children of
Benjamin. Sir W. Scot.

PURVEY
Pur*vey", v. i.

1. To purchase provisions; to provide; to make provision. Chaucer.
Milton.

2. To pander; -- with to. " Their turpitude purveys to their malice."
[R.] Burke.

PURVEYANCE
Pur*vey"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pourvoyance.]

1. The act or process of providing or procuring; providence;
foresight; preparation; management. Chaucer.
The ill purveyance of his page. Spenser.

2. That which is provided; provisions; food.

3. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A providing necessaries for the sovereign by buying them at an
appraised value in preference to all others, and oven without the
owner's consent. This was formerly a royal prerogative, but has long
been abolished. Wharton.

PURVEYOR
Pur*vey"or, n. Etym: [OE. porveour, OF. pourveor, F. pourvoyeur. See
Purvey, and cf. Proveditor.]

1. One who provides victuals, or whose business is to make provision
for the table; a victualer; a caterer.

2. An officer who formerly provided, or exacted provision, for the
king's household. [Eng.]

3. a procurer; a pimp; a bawd. Addison.

PURVIEW
Pur"view, n. Etym: [OF. purveu, pourveu, F. pourvu, provided, p. p.
of OF. porveoir, F. pourvoir. See Purvey, View, and cf. Proviso.]

1.
(a) (Law) The body of a statute, or that part which begins with " Be
it enacted, " as distinguished from the preamble. Cowell. (b) Hence:

Defn: The limit or scope of a statute; the whole extent of its
intention or provisions. Marshall.
Profanations within the purview of several statutes. Bacon.

2. Limit or sphere of authority; scope; extent.
In determining the extent of information required in the exercise of
a particular authority, recourse must be had to the objects within
the purview of that authority. Madison.

PUS
Pus, n. Etym: [L., akin to Gr. foul: cf. F. pus. See Foul, a.] (Med.)

Defn: The yellowish white opaque creamy matter produced by the
process of suppuration. It consists of innumerable white nucleated
cells floating in a clear liquid.

PUSANE
Pu"sane, n. (Anc. Armor)

Defn: A piece of armor for the breast; often, an addition to, or
reënforcement of. the breastplate; -- called also pesane.

PUSEYISM
Pu"sey*ism, n. (Ch. of Eng.)

Defn: The principles of Dr. Pusey and others at Oxford, England, as
exhibited in various publications, esp. in a series which appeared
from 1833 to 1841, designated " Tracts for the Times;" tractarianism.
See Tractarianism.

PUSEYISTIC; PUSEYITE
Pu"sey*is"tic, Pu"sey*ite, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Puseyism.

PUSEYITE
Pu"sey*ite, n.

Defn: One who holds the principles of Puseyism; -- often used
opprobriously.

PUSH
Push, n. Etym: [Probably F. poche. See Pouch.]

Defn: A pustule; a pimple. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Bacon.

PUSH
Push, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pushed; p. pr. & vb. n. Pushing.] Etym:
[OE. possen, pussen, F. pousser, fr. L. pulsare, v. intens. fr.
pellere, pulsum, to beat, knock, push. See Pulse a beating, and cf.
Pursy.]

1. To press against with force; to drive or impel by pressure; to
endeavor to drive by steady pressure, without striking; -- opposed to
draw.
Sidelong had pushed a mountain from his seat. Milton.

2. To thrust the points of the horns against; to gore.
If the ox shall push a manservant or maidservant, . . . the ox shall
be stoned. Ex. xxi. 32.

3. To press or urge forward; to drive; to push an objection too far.
" To push his fortune." Dryden.
Ambition pushes the soul to such actions as are apt to procure honor
to the actor. Spectator.
We are pushed for an answer. Swift.

4. To bear hard upon; to perplex; to embarrass.

5. To importune; to press with solicitation; to tease. To push down,
to overthrow by pushing or impulse.

PUSH
Push, v. i.

1. To make a thrust; to shove; as, to push with the horns or with a
sword. Shak.

2. To make an advance, attack, or effort; to be energetic; as, a man
must push in order to succeed.
At the time of the end shall the kind of the south push at him and
the king of the north shall come against him. Dan. xi. 40.
War seemed asleep for nine long years; at length Both sides resolved
to push, we tried our strength. Dryden.

3. To burst pot, as a bud or shoot. To push on, to drive or urge
forward; to hasten.
The rider pushed on at a rapid pace. Sir W. Scott.

PUSH
Push, n.

1. A thrust with a pointed instrument, or with the end of a thing.

2. Any thrust. pressure, impulse, or force, or force applied; a
shove; as, to give the ball the first push.

3. An assault or attack; an effort; an attempt; hence, the time or
occasion for action.
Exact reformation is not perfected at the first push. Milton.
hen it comes to the push, tic no more than talk. L' Estrange.

4. The faculty of overcoming obstacles; aggressive energy; as, he has
push, or he has no push. [Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- See Thrust.

PUSH BUTTON
Push button. (Elec.)

Defn: A simple device, resembling a button in form, so arranged that
pushing it closes an electric circuit, as of an electric bell.

PUSHER
Push"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, pushes.

PUSHING
Push"ing, a.

Defn: Pressing forward in business; enterprising; driving; energetic;
also, forward; officious, intrusive.
 -- Push"ing*ly, adv.

PUSHPIN
Push"pin`, n.

Defn: A child's game played with pins. L. Estrange.

PUSIL
Pu"sil, a. Etym: [L. pusillus very little.]

Defn: Very small; little; petty. [Obs.] Bacon.

PUSILLANIMITY
Pu`sil*la*nim"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. pusillanimitas: cf. F.
pusillanimité.]

Defn: The quality of being pusillanimous; weakness of spirit;
cowardliness.
The badge of pusillanimity and cowardice. Shak.
It is obvious to distinguished between an act of . . . pusillanimity
and an act of great modesty or humility. South.

Syn.
 -- Cowardliness; cowardice; fear; timidity.

PUSILLANIMOUS
Pu`sil*lan"i*mous, a. Etym: [L. pusillannimis; pusillus very little
(dim. of pusus a little boy; cf. puer a boy, E. puerile) + animus the
mind: cf. F. pusillanime. See Animosity.]

1. Destitute of a manly or courageous strength and firmness of mind;
of weak spirit; mean-spirited; spiritless; cowardly; -- said of
persons, as, a pussillanimous prince.

2. Evincing, or characterized by, weakness of mind, and want of
courage; feeble; as, pusillanimous counsels. "A low and pusillanimous
spirit." Burke.

Syn.
 -- Cowardly; dastardly; mean-spirited; fainthearted; timid; weak;
feeble.

PUSILLANIMOUSLY
Pu`sil*lan"i*mous*ly, adv.

Defn: With pusillanimity.

PUSLEY
Pus"ley, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Purslane. [Colloq. U. S]

PUSS
Puss (puss), n. Etym: [Cf. D. poes, Ir. & Gael. pus.]

1. A cat; -- a fondling appellation.

2. A hare; -- so called by sportsmen. Puss in the corner, a game in
which all the players but one occupy corners of a room, or certain
goals in the open air, and exchange places, the one without a corner
endeavoring to get a corner while it is vacant, leaving some other
without one.
 -- Puss moth (Zoöl.), any one of several species of stout bombycid
moths belonging to Cerura, Harpyia, and allied genera, esp. Harpyia
vinuli, of Europe. The larvæ are humpbacked, and have two caudal
appendages.

PUSSY
Pussy, n. Etym: [Dim. of puss.]

1. A pet name for a cat; also, an endearing name for a girl.

2. A catkin of the pussy willow.

3. The game of tipcat; -- also called pussy cat. Pussy willow (Bot.),
any kind of willow having large cylindrical catkins clothed with long
glossy hairs, especially the American Salix discolor; -- called also
glaucous willow, and swamp willow.

PUSSY
Pus"sy, a.

Defn: See Pursy. [Colloq. or Low]

PUSTULANT
Pus"tu*lant, a. Etym: [L. pustulans, p. pr. See Pustulate, v. t.]
(Med.)

Defn: Producing pustules.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine that produces pustules, as croton oil.

PUSTULAR
Pus"tu*lar, a.

Defn: 1. Of or pertaining to pustules; as, pustular prominences;
pustular eruptions.

2. Covered with pustulelike prominences; pustulate.

PUSTULATE
Pus"tu*late, v. t. Etym: [L. pustulatus, p. p. of pustulare to
blister, fr. pustula. See Pustule.]

Defn: To form into pustules, or blisters.

PUSTULATE; PUSTULATED
Pus"tu*late, Pus"tu*la`ted, a.

Defn: Covered with pustulelike prominences; pustular; pustulous; as,
a pustulate leaf; a pustulate shell or coral.

PUSTULATION
Pus*tu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. pustulatio.]

Defn: The act of producing pustules; the state of being pustulated.

PUSTULE
Pus"tule, n. Etym: [L. pustula, and pusula: cf. F. pustule.] (Med.)

Defn: A vesicle or an elevation of the cuticle with an inflamed base,
containing pus. Malignant pustule. See under Malignant.

PUSTULOUS
Pus"tu*lous, a. Etym: [L. pustulosus, fr. pustula a pustule: cf. F.
pustuleux.]

Defn: Resembling, or covered with, pustules; pustulate; pustular.

PUT
Put, n. Etym: [See Pit.]

Defn: A pit. [Obs.] Chaucer.

PUT
Put, obs.

Defn: 3d pers. sing. pres. of Put, contracted from putteth. Chaucer.

PUT
Put, n. Etym: [Cf. W. pwt any short thing, pwt o ddyn a squab of a
person, pwtog a short, thick woman.]

Defn: A rustic; a clown; an awkward or uncouth person.
Queer country puts extol Queen Bess's reign. Bramston.
What droll puts the citizens seem in it all. F. Harrison.

PUT
Put, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Put; p. pr. & vb. n. Putting.] Etym: [AS.
potian to thrust: cf. Dan. putte to put, to put into, Fries. putje;
perh. akin to W. pwtio to butt, poke, thrust; cf. also Gael. put to
push, thrust, and E. potter, v. i.]

1. To move in any direction; to impel; to thrust; to push; -- nearly
obsolete, except with adverbs, as with by (to put by = to thrust
aside; to divert); or with forth (to put forth = to thrust out).
His chief designs are . . . to put thee by from thy spiritual
employment. Jer. Taylor.

2. To bring to a position or place; to place; to lay; to set;
figuratively, to cause to be or exist in a specified relation,
condition, or the like; to bring to a stated mental or moral
condition; as, to put one in fear; to put a theory in practice; to
put an enemy to fight.
This present dignity, In which that I have put you. Chaucer.
I will put enmity between thee and the woman. Gen. iii. 15.
He put no trust in his servants. Job iv. 18.
When God into the hands of their deliverer Puts invincible might.
Milton.
In the mean time other measures were put in operation. Sparks.

3. To attach or attribute; to assign; as, to put a wrong construction
on an act or expression.

4. To lay down; to give up; to surrender. [Obs.]
No man hath more love than this, that a man put his life for his
friends. Wyclif (John xv. 13).

5. To set before one for judgment, acceptance, or rejection; to bring
to the attention; to offer; to state; to express; figuratively, to
assume; to suppose; -- formerly sometimes followed by that
introducing a proposition; as, to put a question; to put a case.
Let us now put that ye have leave. Chaucer.
Put the perception and you put the mind. Berkeley.
These verses, originally Greek, were put in Latin. Milton.
All this is ingeniously and ably put. Hare.

6. To incite; to entice; to urge; to constrain; to oblige.
These wretches put us upon all mischief. Swift.
Put me not use the carnal weapon in my own defense. Sir W. Scott.
Thank him who puts me, loath, to this revenge. Milton.

7. To throw or cast with a pushing motion "overhand," the hand being
raised from the shoulder; a practice in athletics; as, to put the
shot or weight.

8. (Mining)

Defn: To convey coal in the mine, as from the working to the tramway.
Raymond. Put case, formerly, an elliptical expression for, put or
suppose the case to be.
Put case that the soul after departure from the body may live. Bp.
Hall.
-- To put about (Naut.), to turn, or change the course of, as a ship.
 -- To put away. (a) To renounce; to discard; to expel. (b) To
divorce.
 -- To put back. (a) To push or thrust backwards; hence, to hinder;
to delay. (b) To refuse; to deny.
Coming from thee, I could not put him back. Shak.
(c) To set, as the hands of a clock, to an earlier hour. (d) To
restore to the original place; to replace.
 -- To put by. (a) To turn, set, or thrust, aside. "Smiling put the
question by." Tennyson. (b) To lay aside; to keep; to sore up; as, to
put by money.
 -- To put down. (a) To lay down; to deposit; to set down. (b) To
lower; to diminish; as, to put down prices. (c) To deprive of
position or power; to put a stop to; to suppress; to abolish; to
confute; as, to put down rebellion of traitors.
Mark, how a plain tale shall put you down. Shak.
Sugar hath put down the use of honey. Bacon.
(d) To subscribe; as, to put down one's name.
 -- To put forth. (a) To thrust out; to extend, as the hand; to cause
to come or push out; as, a tree puts forth leaves. (b) To make
manifest; to develop; also, to bring into action; to exert; as, to
put forth strength. (c) To propose, as a question, a riddle, and the
like. (d) To publish, as a book.
 -- To put forward. (a) To advance to a position of prominence
responsibility; to promote. (b) To cause to make progress; to aid.
(c) To set, as the hands of a clock, to a later hour.
 -- To put in. (a) To introduce among others; to insert; sometimes,
to introduce with difficulty; as, to put in a word while others are
discoursing. (b) (Naut.) To conduct into a harbor, as a ship. (c)
(Law) To place in due form before a court; to place among the records
of a court. Burrill. (d) (Med.) To restore, as a dislocated part, to
its place.
 -- To put off. (a) To lay aside; to discard; as, to put off a robe;
to put off mortality. "Put off thy shoes from off thy feet." Ex. iii.
5. (b) To turn aside; to elude; to disappoint; to frustrate; to
baffle.
I hoped for a demonstration, but Themistius hoped to put me off with
an harangue. Boyle.
We might put him off with this answer. Bentley.
(c) To delay; to defer; to postpone; as, to put off repentance. (d)
To get rid of; to dispose of; especially, to pass fraudulently; as,
to put off a counterfeit note, or an ingenious theory. (e) To push
from land; as, to put off a boat.
 -- To put on or upon. (a) To invest one's self with, as clothes; to
assume. "Mercury . . . put on the shape of a man." L'Estrange. (b) To
impute (something) to; to charge upon; as, to put blame on or upon
another. (c) To advance; to promote. [Obs.] "This came handsomely to
put on the peace." Bacon. (d) To impose; to inflict. "That which thou
puttest on me, will I bear." 2 Kings xviii. 14. (e) To apply; as, to
put on workmen; to put on steam. (f) To deceive; to trick. "The stork
found he was put upon." L'Estrange. (g) To place upon, as a means or
condition; as, he put him upon bread and water. "This caution will
put them upon considering." Locke. (h) (Law) To rest upon; to submit
to; as, a defendant puts himself on or upon the country. Burrill.
 -- To put out. (a) To eject; as, to put out and intruder. (b) To put
forth; to shoot, as a bud, or sprout. (c) To extinguish; as, to put
out a candle, light, or fire. (d) To place at interest; to loan; as,
to put out funds. (e) To provoke, as by insult; to displease; to vex;
as, he was put out by my reply. [Colloq.] (f) To protrude; to stretch
forth; as, to put out the hand. (g) To publish; to make public; as,
to put out a pamphlet. (h) To confuse; to disconcert; to interrupt;
as, to put one out in reading or speaking. (i) (Law) To open; as, to
put out lights, that is, to open or cut windows. Burrill. (j) (Med.)
To place out of joint; to dislocate; as, to put out the ankle. (k) To
cause to cease playing, or to prevent from playing longer in a
certain inning, as in base ball.
 -- To put over. (a) To place (some one) in authority over; as, to
put a general over a division of an army. (b) To refer.
For the certain knowledge of that knowledge of that truthput you o'er
to heaven and to my mother. Shak.
(c) To defer; to postpone; as, the court put over the cause to the
next term. (d) To transfer (a person or thing) across; as, to put one
over the river.
 -- To put the hand to or unto. (a) To take hold of, as of an
instrument of labor; as, to put the hand to the plow; hence, to
engage in (any task or affair); as, to put one's hand to the work.
(b) To take or seize, as in theft. "He hath not put his hand unto his
neighbor's goods." Ex. xxii. 11.
 -- To put through, to cause to go through all conditions or stages
of a progress; hence, to push to completion; to accomplish; as, he
put through a measure of legislation; he put through a railroad
enterprise. [U.S.] -- To put to. (a) To add; to unite; as, to put one
sum to another. (b) To refer to; to expose; as, to put the safety of
the state to hazard. "That dares not put it to the touch." Montrose.
(c) To attach (something) to; to harness beasts to. Dickens.
 -- To put to a stand, to stop; to arrest by obstacles or
difficulties.
 -- To put to bed. (a) To undress and place in bed, as a child. (b)
To deliver in, or to make ready for, childbirth.
 -- To put to death, to kill.
 -- To put together, to attach; to aggregate; to unite in one.
 -- To put this and that (or two and two) together, to draw an
inference; to form a correct conclusion.
 -- To put to it, to distress; to press hard; to perplex; to give
difficulty to. "O gentle lady, do not put me to 't." Shak.
 -- To put to rights, to arrange in proper order; to settle or
compose rightly.
 -- To put to the sword, to kill with the sword; to slay.
 -- To put to trial, or on trial, to bring to a test; to try.
 -- To put trust in, to confide in; to repose confidence in.
 -- To put up. (a) To pass unavenged; to overlook; not to punish or
resent; to put up with; as, to put up indignities. [Obs.] "Such
national injuries are not to be put up." Addison. (b) To send forth
or upward; as, to put up goods for sale. (d) To start from a cover,
as game. "She has been frightened; she has been put up." C. Kingsley.
(e) To hoard. "Himself never put up any of the rent." Spelman. (f) To
lay side or preserve; to pack away; to store; to pickle; as, to put
up pork, beef, or fish. (g) To place out of sight, or away; to put in
its proper place; as, put up that letter. Shak. (h) To incite; to
instigate; -- followed by to; as, he put the lad up to mischief. (i)
To raise; to erect; to build; as, to put up a tent, or a house. (j)
To lodge; to entertain; as, to put up travelers.
 -- To put up a job, to arrange a plot. [Slang]

Syn.
 -- To place; set; lay; cause; produce; propose; state.
 -- Put, Lay, Place, Set. These words agree in the idea of fixing the
position of some object, and are often used interchangeably. To put
is the least definite, denoting merely to move to a place. To place
has more particular reference to the precise location, as to put with
care in a certain or proper place. To set or to lay may be used when
there is special reference to the position of the object.

PUT
Put (put; often pût in def. 3), v. i.

1. To go or move; as, when the air first puts up. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. To steer; to direct one's course; to go.
His fury thus appeased, he puts to land. Dryden.

3. To play a card or a hand in the game called put. To put about
(Naut.), to change direction; to tack.
 -- To put back (Naut.), to turn back; to return. "The French . . .
had put back to Toulon." Southey.
 -- To put forth. (a) To shoot, bud, or germinate. "Take earth from
under walls where nettles put forth." Bacon. (b) To leave a port or
haven, as a ship. Shak.
 -- To put in (Naut.), to enter a harbor; to sail into port.
 -- To put in for. (a) To make a request or claim; as, to put in for
a share of profits. (b) To go into covert; -- said of a bird escaping
from a hawk. (c) To offer one's self; to stand as a candidate for.
Locke.
 -- To put off, to go away; to depart; esp., to leave land, as a
ship; to move from the shore.
 -- To put on, to hasten motion; to drive vehemently.
 -- To put over (Naut.), to sail over or across.
 -- To put to sea (Naut.), to set sail; to begin a voyage; to advance
into the ocean.
 -- To put up. (a) To take lodgings; to lodge. (b) To offer one's
self as a candidate. L'Estrange.
 -- To put up to, to advance to. [Obs.] "With this he put up to my
lord." Swift.
 -- To put up with. (a) To overlook, or suffer without recompense,
punishment, or resentment; as, to put up with an injury or affront.
(b) To take without opposition or expressed dissatisfaction; to
endure; as, to put up with bad fare.

PUT
Put, n.

1. The act of putting; an action; a movement; a thrust; a push; as,
the put of a ball. "A forced put." L'Estrange.

2. A certain game at cards. Young.

3. A privilege which one party buys of another to "put" (deliver) to
him a certain amount of stock, grain, etc., at a certain price and
date. [Brokers' Cant]
A put and a call may be combined in one instrument, the holder of
which may either buy or sell as he chooses at the fixed price.
Johnson's Cyc.

PUT
Put, n. Etym: [OF. pute.]

Defn: A prostitute. [Obs.]

PUTAGE
Pu"tage (; 48), n. Etym: [OF. putage.]

Defn: Prostitution or fornication on the part of a woman.

PUTAMEN
Pu*ta"men, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: The shell of a nut; the stone of a drupe fruit. See Endocarp.

PUTANISM
Pu"tan*ism, n. Etym: [F. putanisme, fr. putain harlot.]

Defn: Habitual lewdness or prostitution of a woman; harlotry.

PUTATIVE
Pu"ta*tive, a. Etym: [L. putativus, fr. putare, putatum, to reckon,
suppose, adjust, prune, cleanse. See Pure, and cf. Amputate, Compute,
Dispute, Impute.]

Defn: Commonly thought or deemed; supposed; reputed; as, the putative
father of a child. "His other putative (I dare not say feigned)
friends." E. Hall.
Thus things indifferent, being esteemed useful or pious, became
customary, and then came for reverence into a putative and usurped
authority. Jer. Taylor.