

SALT
Salt, a. [Compar. Salter; superl. Saltest.] Etym: [AS. sealt, salt.
See Salt, n.]

1. Of or relating to salt; abounding in, or containing, salt;
prepared or preserved with, or tasting of, salt; salted; as, salt
beef; salt water. "Salt tears." Chaucer.

2. Overflowed with, or growing in, salt water; as, a salt marsh; salt
grass.

3. Fig.: Bitter; sharp; pungent.
I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me. Shak.

4. Fig.: Salacious; lecherous; lustful. Shak. Salt acid (Chem.),
hydrochloric acid.
 -- Salt block, an apparatus for evaporating brine; a salt factory.
Knight.
 -- Salt bottom, a flat piece of ground covered with saline
efforescences. [Western U.S.] bartlett.
 -- Salt cake (Chem.), the white caked mass, consisting of sodium
sulphate, which is obtained as the product of the first stage in the
manufacture of soda, according to Leblanc's process.
 -- Salt fish. (a) Salted fish, especially cod, haddock, and similar
fishes that have been salted and dried for food. (b) A marine fish.
 -- Salt garden, an arrangement for the natural evaporation of sea
water for the production of salt, employing large shallow basins
excavated near the seashore.
 -- Salt gauge, an instrument used to test the strength of brine; a
salimeter.
 -- Salt horse, salted beef. [Slang] -- Salt junk, hard salt beef for
use at sea. [Slang] -- Salt lick. See Lick, n.
 -- Salt marsh, grass land subject to the overflow of salt water.
 -- Salt-marsh caterpillar (Zoöl.), an American bombycid moth
(Spilosoma acreæ which is very destructive to the salt-marsh grasses
and to other crops. Called also wooly bear. See Illust. under Moth,
Pupa, and Woolly bear, under Woolly.
 -- Salt-marsh fleabane (Bot.), a strong-scented composite herb
(Pluchea camphorata) with rayless purplish heads, growing in salt
marshes.
 -- Salt-marsh hen (Zoöl.), the clapper rail. See under Rail.
 -- Salt-marsh terrapin (Zoöl.), the diamond-back.
 -- Salt mine, a mine where rock salt is obtained.
 -- Salt pan. (a) A large pan used for making salt by evaporation;
also, a shallow basin in the ground where salt water is evaporated by
the heat of the sun. (b) pl. Salt works.
 -- Salt pit, a pit where salt is obtained or made.
 -- Salt rising, a kind of yeast in which common salt is a principal
ingredient. [U.S.] -- Salt raker, one who collects salt in natural
salt ponds, or inclosures from the sea.
 -- Salt sedative (Chem.), boracic acid. [Obs.] -- Salt spring, a
spring of salt water.
 -- Salt tree (Bot.), a small leguminous tree (Halimodendron
argenteum) growing in the salt plains of the Caspian region and in
Siberia.
 -- Salt water, water impregnated with salt, as that of the ocean and
of certain seas and lakes; sometimes, also tears.
Mine eyes are full of tears, I can not see; And yet salt water blinds
them not so much But they can see a sort of traitors here. Shak.
-- Salt-water sailor, an ocean mariner.
 -- Salt-water tailor. (Zoöl.) See Bluefish.

SALT
Salt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Salted; p. pr. & vb. n. Salting.]

1. To sprinkle, impregnate, or season with salt; to preserve with
salt or in brine; to supply with salt; as, to salt fish, beef, or
pork; to salt cattle.

2. To fill with salt between the timbers and planks, as a ship, for
the preservation of the timber. To salt a mine, to artfully deposit
minerals in a mine in order to deceive purchasers regarding its
value. [Cant] -- To salt away, To salt down, to prepare with, or pack
in, salt for preserving, as meat, eggs, etc.; hence, colloquially, to
save, lay up, or invest sagely, as money.

SALT
Salt, v. i.

Defn: To deposit salt as a saline solution; as, the brine begins to
salt.

SALT
Salt, n. Etym: [L. saltus, fr. salire to leap.]

Defn: The act of leaping or jumping; a leap. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SALTANT
Sal"tant, a. Etym: [L. saltans, p.pr. of saltare to dance, v. intens.
fr. salire to leap: cf. F. sautant. See Sally, v.]

1. Leaping; jumping; dancing.

2. (Her.)

Defn: In a leaping position; springing forward; -- applied especially
to the squirrel, weasel, and rat, also to the cat, greyhound, monkey,
etc.

SALTARELLA
Sal`ta*rel"la, n.

Defn: See Saltarello.

SALTARELLO
Sal`ta*rel"lo, n. Etym: [It., fr. L. saltare to jump.]

Defn: A popular Italian dance in quick 3-4 or 6-8 time, running
mostly in triplets, but with a hop step at the beginning of each
measure. See Tarantella.

SALTATE
Sal"tate, v. i. Etym: [See Saltant.]

Defn: To leap or dance. [R.]

SALTATION
Sal*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. saltatio: cf. F. saltation.]

1. A leaping or jumping.
Continued his saltation without pause. Sir W. Scott.

2. Beating or palpitation; as, the saltation of the great artery.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: An abrupt and marked variation in the condition or appearance
of a species; a sudden modification which may give rise to new races.
We greatly suspect that nature does make considerable jumps in the
way of variation now and then, and that these saltations give rise to
some of the gaps which appear to exist in the series of known forms.
Huxley.

SALTATORIA
Sal`ta*to"ri*a, n.; pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Orthoptera including grasshoppers, locusts, and
crickets.

SALTATORIAL
Sal`ta*to"ri*al, a.

1. Relating to leaping; saltatory; as, saltatorial exercises.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Same as Saltatorious.
(b) Of or pertaining to the Saltatoria.

SALTATORIOUS
Sal`ta*to"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Capable of leaping; formed for leaping; saltatory; as, a
saltatorious insect or leg.

SALTATORY
Sal"ta*to"ry, a. Etym: [L. saltatorius. See Saltant, and cf.
Saltire.]

Defn: Leaping or dancing; having the power of, or used in, leaping or
dancing. Saltatory evolution (Biol.), a theory of evolution which
holds that the transmutation of species is not always gradual, but
that there may come sudden and marked variations. See Saltation.
 -- Saltatory spasm (Med.), an affection in which pressure of the
foot on a floor causes the patient to spring into the air, so as to
make repeated involuntary motions of hopping and jumping. J. Ross.

SALTBUSH
Salt"bush`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Australian plant (Atriplex nummularia) of the Goosefoot
family.

SALTCAT
Salt"cat`, n.

Defn: A mixture of salt, coarse meal lime, etc., attractive to
pigeons.

SALTCELLAR
Salt"cel*lar, n. Etym: [OE. saltsaler; salt + F. salière saltcellar,
from L. sal salt. See Salt, and cf. Salary.]

Defn: Formerly a large vessel, now a small vessel of glass or other
material, used for holding salt on the table.

SALTER
Salt"er, n.

Defn: One who makes, sells, or applies salt; one who salts meat or
fish.

SALTERN
Salt"ern, n.

Defn: A building or place where salt is made by boiling or by
evaporation; salt works.

SALTFOOT
Salt"foot`, n.

Defn: A large saltcellar formerly placed near the center of the
table. The superior guests were seated above the saltfoot.

SALT-GREEN
Salt"-green, a.

Defn: Sea-green in color. Shak.

SALTIE
Salt"ie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European dab.

SALTIER
Sal"tier, n.

Defn: See Saltire.

SALTIGRADAE
Sal`ti*gra"dæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Saltigrade.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tribe of spiders including those which lie in wait and leap
upon their prey; the leaping spiders.

SALTIGRADE
Sal"ti*grade, a. Etym: [L. saltus a leap + gradi to walk, go: cf. F.
saltigrade.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having feet or legs formed for leaping.

SALTIGRADE
Sal"ti*grade, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Saltigradæ a tribe of spiders which leap to seize
their prey.

SALTIMBANCO
Sal`tim*ban"co, n. Etym: [It., literally, one who leaps or mounts
upon a bench; saltare to leap + in in, upon + banco a bench.]

Defn: A mountebank; a quack. [Obs.] [Written also santibanco.]
Saltimbancos, quacksalvers, and charlatans. Sir T. browne.

SALTING
Salt"ing, n.

1. The act of sprinkling, impregnating, or furnishing, with salt.

2. A salt marsh.

SALTIRE
Sal"tire, n. Etym: [F. sautoir, fr. LL. saltatorium a sort of
stirrup, fr. L. saltatorius saltatory. See Saltatory, Sally, v.]
(Her.)

Defn: A St. Andrew's cross, or cross in the form of an X, -- one of
the honorable ordinaries.

SALTIREWISE
Sal"tire*wise`, adv. (Her.)

Defn: In the manner of a saltire; -- said especially of the blazoning
of a shield divided by two lines drawn in the direction of a bend and
a bend sinister, and crossing at the center.

SALTISH
Salt"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat salt.
 -- Salt"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Salt"ish*ness, n.

SALTLESS
Salt"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of salt; insipid.

SALTLY
Salt"ly, adv.

Defn: With taste of salt; in a salt manner.

SALTMOUTH
Salt"mouth`, n.

Defn: A wide-mouthed bottle with glass stopper for holding chemicals,
especially crystallized salts.

SALTNESS
Salt"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being salt, or state of being salt, or
impregnated with salt; salt taste; as, the saltness of sea water.

SALTPETER; SALTPETRE
Salt`pe"ter, Salt`pe"tre, (, n. Etym: [F. salpêtre, NL. sal petrae,
literally, rock salt, or stone salt; Salt, and Petrify.] (Chem.)

Defn: Potassium nitrate; niter, a white crystalline substance, KNO3,
having a cooling saline taste, obtained by leaching from certain
soils in which it is produced by the process of nitrification (see
Nitrification, 2). It is a strong oxidizer, is the chief constituent
of gunpowder, and is also used as an antiseptic in curing meat, and
in medicine as a diuretic, diaphoretic, and refrigerant. Chili
salpeter (Chem.), sodium nitrate (distinguished from potassium
nitrate, or true salpeter), a white crystalline substance, NaNO3,
having a cooling, saline, slightly bitter taste. It is obtained by
leaching the soil of the rainless districts of Chili and Peru. It is
deliquescent and cannot be used in gunpowder, but is employed in the
production of nitric acid. Called also cubic niter.
 -- Saltpeter acid (Chem.), nitric acid; -- sometimes so called
because made from saltpeter.

SALTPETROUS
Salt`pe"trous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. salpêtreux.]

Defn: Pertaining to saltpeter, or partaking of its qualities;
impregnated with saltpeter. [Obs.]

SALT RHEUM
Salt" rheum. (Med.)

Defn: A popular name, esp. in the United States, for various
cutaneous eruptions, particularly for those of eczema. See Eczema.

SALTWORT
Salt`wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several plants which grow on the seashore, as
the Batis maritima, and the glasswort. See Glasswort. Black saltwort,
the sea milkwort.

SALTY
Salt"y, a.

Defn: Somewhat salt; saltish.

SALUBRIOUS
Sa*lu"bri*ous, a. Etym: [L. salubris, or saluber, fr. salus health;
akin to salvus safe, sound, well. See Safe.]

Defn: Favorable to health; healthful; promoting health; as,
salubrious air, water, or climate.

Syn.
 -- Healthful; wholesome; healthy; salutary.
 -- Sa-lu"bri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Sa*lu"bri*ous*ness, n.

SALUBRITY
Sa*lu"bri*ty, n. Etym: [L. salubritas: cf. F. salubrité See
Salubrious.]

Defn: The quality of being salubrious; favorableness to the
preservation of health; salubriousness; wholesomeness; healthfulness;
as, the salubrity of the air, of a country, or a climate. "A sweet,
dry small of salubrity." G. W. Cable.

SALUE
Sa*lue", v. t. Etym: [F. saluer. See Salute.]

Defn: To salute. [Obs.]
There was no "good day" and no saluyng. Chaucer.

SALUTARY
Sal"u*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. salutaris, from salus, -utis, health
safety: cf. F. salutaire. See Salubrious.]

1. Wholesome; healthful; promoting health; as, salutary exercise.

2. Promotive of, or contributing to, some beneficial purpose;
beneficial; advantageous; as, a salutary design.

Syn.
 -- Wholesome; healthful; salubrious; beneficial; useful;
advantageous; profitable.
 -- Sal"u*ta*ri*ly, adv.
 -- Sal"u*ta*ri*ness, n.

SALUTATION
Sal`u*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. salutatio: cf. F. salutation. See
Salute.]

Defn: The act of saluting, or paying respect or reverence, by the
customary words or actions; the act of greeting, or expressing good
will or courtesy; also, that which is uttered or done in saluting or
greeting.
In all public meetings or private addresses, use those forms of
salutation, reverence, and decency usual amongst the most sober
persons. Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- Greeting; salute; address.
 -- Salutation, Greeting, Salute, Greeting is the general word for
all manner of expressions of recognition, agreeable or otherwise,
made when persons meet or communicate with each other. A greeting may
be hearty and loving, chilling and offensive, or merely formal, as in
the opening sentence of legal documents. Salutation more definitely
implies a wishing well, and is used of expressions at parting as well
as at meeting. It is used especially of uttered expressions of good
will. Salute, while formerly and sometimes still in the sense of
either greeting or salutation, is now used specifically to denote a
conventional demonstration not expressed in words. The guests
received a greeting which relieved their embrassment, offered their
salutations in well-chosen terms, and when they retired, as when they
entered, made a deferential salute.
Woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye love the uppermost seats in the
synagogues, and greetings in the markets. Luke xi. 43.
When Elisabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her
womb. Luke i. 41.
I shall not trouble my reader with the first salutes of our three
friends. Addison.

SALUTATORIAN
Sa*lu`ta*to"ri*an, n.

Defn: The student who pronounces the salutatory oration at the annual
Commencement or like exercises of a college, -- an honor commonly
assigned to that member of the graduating class who ranks second in
scholarship. [U.S.]

SALUTATORILY
Sa*lu"ta*to*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of salutation.

SALUTATORY
Sa*lu"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. salutatorius. See Salute.]

Defn: Containing or expressing salutations; speaking a welcome;
greeting; -- applied especially to the oration which introduces the
exercises of the Commencements, or similar public exhibitions, in
American colleges.

SALUTATORY
Sa*lu"ta*to*ry, n.

1. A place for saluting or greeting; a vestibule; a porch. [Obs.]
Milton.

2. (American Colleges)

Defn: The salutatory oration.

SALUTE
Sa*lute", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Saluted; p. pr. & vb. n. Saluting.]
Etym: [L. salutare, salutatum, from salus, -utis, health, safety. See
Salubrious.]

1. To adress, as with expressions of kind wishes and courtesy; to
greet; to hail.
I salute you with this kingly title. Shak.

2. Hence, to give a sign of good will; to compliment by an act or
ceremony, as a kiss, a bow, etc.
You have the prettiest tip of a finger . . . I must take the freedom
to salute it. Addison.

3. (Mil. & Naval)

Defn: To honor, as some day, person, or nation, by a discharge of
cannon or small arms, by dipping colors, by cheers, etc.

4. To promote the welfare and safety of; to benefit; to gratify.
[Obs.] "If this salute my blood a jot." Shak.

SALUTE
Sa*lute", n. Etym: [Cf. F. salut. See Salute, v.]

1. The act of saluting, or expressing kind wishes or respect;
salutation; greeting.

2. A sign, token, or ceremony, expressing good will, compliment, or
respect, as a kiss, a bow, etc. Tennyson.

3. (Mil. & Naval)

Defn: A token of respect or honor for some distinguished or official
personage, for a foreign vessel or flag, or for some festival or
event, as by presenting arms, by a discharge of cannon, volleys of
small arms, dipping the colors or the topsails, etc.

SALUTER
Sa*lut"er, n.

Defn: One who salutes.

SALUTIFEROUS
Sal`u*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. salutifer; salus, -utis, health +
ferre to bring.]

Defn: Bringing health; healthy; salutary; beneficial; as,
salutiferous air. [R.]
Innumerable powers, all of them salutiferous. Cudworth.

Syn.
 -- Healthful; healthy; salutary; salubrious.

SALUTIFEROUSLY
Sal`u*tif"er*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: Salutarily. [R.]

SALVABILITY
Sal`va*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being salvable; salvableness. [R.]
In the Latin scheme of redemption, salvability was not possible
outside the communion of the visible organization. A. V. G. Allen.

SALVABLE
Sal"va*ble, a. Etym: [L. salvare to save, from salvus safe. Cf.
Savable.]

Defn: Capable of being saved; admitting of salvation. Dr. H. More.
 -- Sal"va*ble*ness, n.
 -- Sal"va*bly, adv.

SALVAGE
Sal"vage (; 48), n. Etym: [F. salvage, OF. salver to save, F. sauver,
fr. L. salvare. See Save.]

1. The act of saving a vessel, goods, or life, goods, or life, from
perils of the sea.
Salvage of life from a british ship, or a foreign ship in British
waters, ranks before salvage of goods. Encyc. Brit.

2. (Maritime Law)
(a) The compensation allowed to persons who voluntarily assist in
saving a ship or her cargo from peril.
(b) That part of the property that survives the peril and is saved.
Kent. Abbot.

SALVAGE
Sal"vage, a. & n.

Defn: Savage. [Obs.] Spenser.

SALVATION
Sal*va"tion, n. Etym: [OE. salvacioun, sauvacion, F. salvation, fr.
L. salvatio, fr. salvare to save. See Save.]

1. The act of saving; preservation or deliverance from destruction,
danger, or great calamity.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: The redemption of man from the bondage of sin and liability to
eternal death, and the conferring on him of everlasting happiness.
To earn salvation for the sons of men. Milton.
Godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation. 2. Cor. vii. 10.

3. Saving power; that which saves.
Fear ye not; stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he
will show to you to-day. Ex. xiv. 13.
Salvation Army, an organization for prosecuting the work of Christian
evangelization, especially among the degraded populations of cities.
It is virtually a new sect founded in London in 1861 by William
Booth. The evangelists, male and female, have military titles
according to rank, that of the chief being "General." They wear a
uniform, and in their phraseology and mode of work adopt a quasi
military style.

SALVATIONIST
Sal*va"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An evangelist, a member, or a recruit, of the Salvation Army.

SALVATORY
Sal"va*to*ry, n. Etym: [LL. salvatorium, fr. salvare to save.]

Defn: A place where things are preserved; a repository. [R.] Sir M.
Hale.

SALVE
Sal"ve, interj. Etym: [L., hail, God save you, imperat. of salvere to
be well. Cf. Salvo a volley.]

Defn: Hail!

SALVE
Sal"ve ( or ), v. t.

Defn: To say "Salve" to; to greet; to salute. [Obs.]
By this that stranger knight in presence came, And goodly salved
them. Spenser.

SALVE
Salve, n. Etym: [AS. sealf ointment; akin to LG. salwe, D. zalve,
zalf, OHG. salba, Dan. salve, Sw. salva, Goth. salb to anoint, and
probably to Gr. (Hesychius) sapris clarified butter. sq. root155,
291.]

1. An adhesive composition or substance to be applied to wounds or
sores; a healing ointment. Chaucer.

2. A soothing remedy or antidote.
Counsel or consolation we may bring. Salve to thy sores. Milton.
Salve bug (Zoöl.), a large, stout isopod crustacean (Æga psora),
parasitic on the halibut and codfish, -- used by fishermen in the
preparation of a salve. It becomes about two inches in length.

SALVE
Salve, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Salved; p. pr. & vb. n. Salving.] Etym:
[AS. sealfian to anoint. See Salve, n.]

1. To heal by applications or medicaments; to cure by remedial
traetment; to apply salve to; as, to salve a wound. Shak.

2. To heal; to remedy; to cure; to make good; to soothe, as with an
ointment, especially by some device, trick, or quibble; to gloss
over.
But Ebranck salved both their infamies With noble deeds. Spenser.
What may we do, then, to salve this seeming inconsistence Milton.

SALVE
Salve, v. t. & i. Etym: [See Salvage]

Defn: To save, as a ship or goods, from the perils of the sea.
[Recent]

SALVER
Salv"er, n.

Defn: One who salves, or uses salve as a remedy; hence, a
quacksalver, or quack. [Obs.]

SALVER
Sal"ver, n. Etym: [Cf. Salvage.]

Defn: A salvor. Skeat.

SALVER
Sal"ver, n. Etym: [Sp. salva pregustation, the tasting of viands
before they are served, salver, fr. salvar to save, to taste, to
prove the food or drink of nobles, from L. salvare to save. See
Save.]

Defn: A tray or waiter on which anything is presented.

SALVER-SHAPED
Sal"ver-shaped`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Tubular, with a speading border. See Hypocraterimorphous.

SALVIA
Sal"vi*a, n. Etym: [L., sage.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the sage. See Sage.

SALVIFIC
Sal*vif"ic, a. Etym: [L. salficus saving; salvus saved, safe + facere
to make.]

Defn: Tending to save or secure safety. [Obs.]

SALVO
Sal"vo, n.; pl. Salvos. Etym: [L. salvo jure, literally, the right
being reserved. See Safe.]

Defn: An exception; a reservation; an excuse.
They admit many salvos, cautions, and reservations. Eilon Basilike.

SALVO
Sal"vo, n. Etym: [F. salve a discharge of heavy cannon, a volley, L.
salve hail, imperat. of salvere to be well, akin to salvus well. See
Safe.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A concentrated fire from pieces of artillery, as in endeavoring
to make a break in a fortification; a volley.

2. A salute paid by a simultaneous, or nearly simultaneous, firing of
a number of cannon.

SALVOR
Sal"vor, n. Etym: [See Salvation, Save] (Law)

Defn: One who assists in saving a ship or goods at sea, without being
under special obligation to do so. Wheaton.

SAM
Sam, adv. Etym: [AS. same. See Same, a.]

Defn: Together. [Obs.] "All in that city sam." Spenser.

SAMARA
Sa*ma"ra ( or ), n. Etym: [L. samara, samera, the seed of the elm.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A dry, indehiscent, usually one-seeded, winged fruit, as that
of the ash, maple, and elm; a key or key fruit.

SAMARE
Sam"are, n.

Defn: See Simar.

SAMARITAN
Sa*mar"i*tan, a. Etym: [L. Samaritanus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Samaria, in Palestine.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Samaria; also, the language of
Samaria.

SAMARIUM
Sa*ma"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. E. samarskite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element of doubtful identity.

Note: Samarium was discovered, by means of spectrum analysis, in
certain minerals (samarskite, cerite, etc.), in which it is
associated with other elements of the earthy group. It has been
confounded with the donbtful elements decipium, philippium, etc., and
is possibly a complex mixture of elements not as yet clearly
identified. Symbol Sm. Provisional atomic weight 150.2.

SAMAROID
Sam"a*roid, a. Etym: [Samara + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling a samara, or winged seed vessel.

SAMARRA
Sa*mar"ra, n.

Defn: See Simar.

SAMARSKITE
Sa*mar"skite, a. Etym: [After Samarski, a Russian.] (Min.)

Defn: A rare mineral having a velvet-black color and submetallic
luster. It is a niobate of uranium, iron, and the yttrium and cerium
metals.

SAMBO
Sam"bo, n. Etym: [Sp. zambo, sambo.]

Defn: A colloquial or humorous appelation for a negro; sometimes, the
offspring of a black person and a mulatto; a zambo.

SAMBOO
Sam"boo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Sumbur.

SAMBUCUS
Sam*bu"cus, n. Etym: [L., an elder tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of shrubs and trees; the elder.

SAMBUKE
Sam"buke, n. Etym: [L. sambuca, Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: An ancient stringed instrument used by the Greeks, the
particular construction of which is unknown.

SAMBUR
Sam"bur, n. Etym: [Hind. sambar, sabar.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An East Indian deer (Rusa Aristotelis) having a mane on its
neck. Its antlers have but three prongs. Called also gerow. The name
is applied to other species of the genus Rusa, as the Bornean sambur
(R. equina).

SAME
Same, a. Etym: [AS. same. adv.; akin to OS. sama, samo, adv., OHG.
sam, a., sama, adv., Icel. samr, a., Sw. samme, samma, Dan. samme,
Goth. sama, Russ. samui, Gr. sama, Gr. simul at the same time,
similis like, and E. some, a., -some. sq. root191. Cf. Anomalous,
Assemble, Homeopathy, Homily, Seem, v. i., Semi-, Similar, Some.]

1. Not different or other; not another or others; identical;
unchanged.
Thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end. Ps. cii. 27.

2. Of like kind, species, sort, dimensions, or the like; not
differing in character or in the quality or qualities compared;
corresponding; not discordant; similar; like.
The ethereal vigor is in all the same. Dryden.

3. Just mentioned, or just about to be mentioned.
What ye know, the same do I know. Job. xiii. 2.
Do but think how well the same he spends, Who spends his blood his
country to relieve. Daniel.

Note: Same is commonly preceded by the, this, or that and is often
used substantively as in the citations above. In a comparative use it
is followed by as or with.
Bees like the same odors as we do. Lubbock.
[He] held the same political opinions with his illustrious friend.
Macaulay.

SAMELINESS
Same"li*ness, n.

Defn: Sameness, 2. [R.] Bayne.

SAMENESS
Same"ness, n.

1. The state of being the same, identity; abscence of difference;
near resemblance; correspondence; similarity; as, a sameness of
person, of manner, of sound, of appearance, and the like. "A sameness
of the terms." Bp. Horsley.

2. Hence, want of variety; tedious monotony.

Syn.
 -- Identity; identicalness; oneness.

SAMETTE
Sa*mette", n.

Defn: See Samite. [Obs.]

SAMIAN
Sa"mi*an, a. Etym: [L. Samius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the island of Samos.
Fill high the cup with Samian wine. Byreon.
Samian earth, a species of clay from Samoa, formerly used in medicine
as an astringent.

SAMIAN
Sa"mi*an, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Samos.

SAMIEL
Sa"mi*el, n. Etym: [Turk. sam-yeli; Ar. samm poison + Turk. yel wind.
Cf. Simoom.]

Defn: A hot and destructive wind that sometimes blows, in Turkey,
from the desert. It is identical with the simoom of Arabia and the
kamsin of Syria.

SAMIOT
Sa"mi*ot, a. & n. Etym: [Cf. F. samiote.]

Defn: Samian.

SAMISEN
Sam"i*sen, n. [Jap.] (Mus.)

Defn: A Japanese musical instrument with three strings, resembling a
guitar or banjo.

SAMITE
Sa"mite, a. Etym: [OF. samit, LL. samitum, examitum, from LGr. Six,
and cf. Dimity.]

Defn: A species of silk stuff, or taffeta, generally interwoven with
gold. Tennyson.
In silken samite she was light arrayed. Spenser.

SAMLET
Sam"let, n. Etym: [Cf. Salmonet.]

Defn: The parr.

SAMMIER
Sam"mi*er, n.

Defn: A machine for pressing the water from skins in tanning. Knight.

SAMOAN
Sa*mo"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Samoan Islands (formerly called
Navigators' Islands) in the South Pacific Ocean, or their
inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: An inhabitant of the Samoan Islands.

SAMOVAR
Sa"mo*var, n. Etym: [Russ. samovar'.]

Defn: A metal urn used in Russia for making tea. It is filled with
water, which is heated by charcoal placed in a pipe, with chimney
attached, which passes through the urn.

SAMOYEDES
Sam`oy*edes", n. pl.; sing. Samoyede (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: An ignorant and degraded Turanian tribe which occupies a
portion of Northern Russia and a part of Siberia.Samoyeds.

SAMP
Samp, n. Etym: [From American Indian sapac, saupac, made soft, or
thinned.]

Defn: An article of food consisting of maize broken or bruised, which
is cooked by by boiling, and usually eaten with milk; coarse hominy.

SAMPAN
Sam"pan, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A Chinese boat from twelve to fifteen feet long, covered with a
house, and sometimes used as a permanent habitation on the inland
waters. [Written also sanpan.]

SAMPHIRE
Sam"phire ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [F. l'herbe de Saint Pierre. See
Saint, and Petrel.] (Bot.)
(a) A fleshy, suffrutescent, umbelliferous European plant (Crithmum
maritimum). It grows among rocks and on cliffs along the seacoast,
and is used for pickles.
Hangs one that gathers samphire, dreadful trade! Scak.

(b) The species of glasswort (Salicornia herbacea); -- called in
England marsh samphire.
(c) A seashore shrub (Borrichia arborescens) of the West Indies.
Golden samphire. See under Golden.

SAMPLE
Sam"ple, n. Etym: [OE. sample, asaumple, OF. essample, example, fr.
L. exemplum. See Example, and cf. Ensample, Sampler.]

1. Example; pattern. [Obs.] Spenser. "A sample to the youngest."
Shak.
Thus he concludes, and every hardy knight His sample followed.
Fairfax.

2. A part of anything presented for inspection, or shown as evidence
of the quality of the whole; a specimen; as, goods are often
purchased by samples.
I design this but for a sample of what I hope more fully to discuss.
Woodward.

Syn.
 -- Specimen; example. See Specimen.

SAMPLE
Sam"ple, v. t.

1. To make or show something similar to; to match. Bp. Hall.

2. To take or to test a sample or samples of; as, to sample sugar,
teas, wools, cloth.

SAMPLER
Sam"pler, n. Etym: [See Exampler, Exemplar.]

1. One who makes up samples for inspection; one who examines samples,
or by samples; as, a wool sampler.

2. A pattern; a specimen; especially, a collection of needlework
patterns, as letters, borders, etc., to be used as samples, or to
display the skill of the worker.
Susie dear, bring your sampler and Mrs. Schumann will show you how to
make that W you bothered over. E. E. Hale.

SAMSHOO; SAMSHU
Sam"shoo, Sam"shu (, n. Etym: [Chinese san-shao thrice fired.]

Defn: A spirituous liquor distilled by the Chinese from the yeasty
liquor in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure. S. W.
Williams.

SAMSON
Sam"son, n.

Defn: An Israelite of Bible record (see Judges xiii.), distinguished
for his great strength; hence, a man of extraordinary physical
strength. Samson post. (a) (Naut.) A strong post resting on the
keelson, and supporting a beam of the keelson, and supporting a beam
of the deck; also, a temporary or movable pilar carrying a leading
block or pulley for various purposes. Brande & C. (b) In deepwell
boring, the post which supports the walking beam of the apparatus.

SAMURAI
Sa"mu*rai`, n. pl. & sing. [Jap.]

Defn: In the former feudal system of Japan, the class or a member of
the class, of military retainers of the daimios, constituting the
gentry or lesser nobility. They possessed power of life and death
over the commoners, and wore two swords as their distinguishing mark.
Their special rights and privileges were abolished with the fall of
feudalism in 1871.

SANABILITY
San`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sanable; sanableness;
curableness.

SANABLE
San"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. sanabilis, fr. sanare to heal, fr. sanus
sound, healthy. See Sane.]

Defn: Capable of being healed or cured; susceptible of remedy.

Syn.
 -- Remediable; curable; healable.

SANABLENESS
San"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being sanable.

SANATION
Sa*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. sanatio. See Sanable.]

Defn: The act of healing or curing. [Obs.] Wiseman.

SANATIVE
San"a*tive, a. Etym: [LL. sanativus.]

Defn: Having the power to cure or heal; healing; tending to heal;
sanatory.
 -- San"a*tive*ness, n.

SANATORIUM
San`a*to"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Sanatory.]

Defn: An establishment for the treatment of the sick; a resort for
invalids. See Sanitarium.

SANATORY
San"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. sanatorius, fr. L. sa to heal. See
Sanable.]

Defn: Conducive to health; tending to cure; healing; curative;
sanative.
Sanatory ordinances for the protection of public health, such as
quarantine, fever hospitals, draining, etc. De Quincey.

Note: Sanatory and sanitary should not be confounded. Sanatory
signifies conducive to health, while sanitary has the more general
meaning of pertaining to health.

SANBENITO
San`be*ni"to, n. Etym: [Sp. & Pg. sambenito, contr. from L. saccus
sack + benedictus blessed.]

1. Anciently, a sackcloth coat worn by penitens on being reconciled
to the church.

2. A garnment or cap, or sometimes both, painted with flames,
figures, etc., and worn by persons who had been examined by the
Inquisition and were brought forth for punishment at the auto-da-fé.

SANCE-BELL; SANCTE BELL
Sance"-bell", Sanc"te bell", n.

Defn: See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus.

SANCHO
San"cho, n. [Sp., a proper name.] (Card Playing)

Defn: The nine of trumps in sancho pedro.

SANCHO PEDRO
Sancho pedro. [Sp. Pedro Peter.] (Card Playing)

Defn: A variety of auction pitch in which the nine (sancho) and five
(pedro) of trumps are added as counting cards at their pip value, and
the ten of trumps counts game.

SANCTIFICATE
Sanc"ti*fi*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. sanctificatus, p.p. of
sanctificare.]

Defn: To sanctify. [Obs.] Barrow.

SANCTIFICATION
Sanc`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. sanctificatio: cf. F.
sanctification.]

1. The act of sanctifying or making holy; the being sanctified or
made holy; esp. (Theol.), the act of God's grace by which the
affections of men are purified, or alienated from sin and the world,
and exalted to, a supreme love to God; also, the state of being thus
purified or sanctified.
God hath from the baginning chosen you to salvation through
sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth. 2 Thess. ii.
13.

2. The act of consecrating, or of setting apart, for a sacred
purpose; consecration. Bp. Burnet.

SANCTIFIED
Sanc"ti*fied, a.

Defn: Made holy; also, made to have the air of sanctity;
sanctimonious.

SANCTIFIER
Sanc"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who sanctifies, or makes holy; specifically, the Holy
Spirit.

SANCTIFY
Sanc"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sanctified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sanctifying.] Etym: [F. sanctifier, L. sanctificare; sanctus holy + -
ficare (in comp.) to make. See Saint, and -fy.]

1. To make sacred or holy; to set apart to a holy or religious use;
to consecrate by appropriate rites; to hallow.
God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it. Gen. ii. 3.
Moses . . . sanctified Aaron and his garnment. Lev. viii. 30.

2. To make free from sin; to cleanse from moral corruption and
pollution; to purify.
Sanctify them through thy truth. John xvii. 17.

3. To make efficient as the means of holiness; to render productive
of holiness or piety.
A means which his mercy hath sanctified so to me as to make me repent
of that unjust act. Eikon Basilike.

4. To impart or impute sacredness, venerableness, inviolability,
title to reverence and respect, or the like, to; to secure from
violation; to give sanction to.
The holy man, amazed at what he saw, Made haste to sanctify the bliss
by law. Dryden.
Truth guards the poet, sanctifies the line. Pope.

SANCTIFYINGLY
Sanc"ti*fy`ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner or degree tending to sanctify or make holy.

SANCTILOQUENT
Sanc*til"o*quent, a. Etym: [L. sanctus holy + loquens, p. pr. of
loqui to speak.]

Defn: Discoursing on heavenly or holy things, or in a holy manner.

SANCTIMONIAL
Sanc`ti*mo"ni*al, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. sanctimonialis. ]

Defn: Sanctimonius. [Obs.]

SANCTIMONIOUS
Sanc`ti*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [See Sanctimony.]

1. Possessing sanctimony; holy; sacred; saintly. Shak.

2. Making a show of sanctity; affecting saintliness; hypocritically
devout or pious. "Like the sanctimonious pirate." Shak.
 -- Sanc`ti*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Sanc`ti*mo"ni*ous*ness, n.

SANCTIMONY
Sanc"ti*mo*ny, n. Etym: [L. sanctimonia, fr. sanctus holy: cf. OF.
sanctimonie. See Saint.]

Defn: Holiness; devoutness; scrupulous austerity; sanctity;
especially, outward or artificial saintliness; assumed or pretended
holiness; hypocritical devoutness.
Her pretense is a pilgrimage; . . . which holy undertaking with most
austere sanctimony she accomplished. Shak.

SANCTION
Sanc"tion, n. Etym: [L. sanctio, from sancire, samctum to render
sacred or inviolable, to fix unalternably: cf. F. sanction. See
Saint.]

1. Solemn or ceremonious ratification; an official act of a superior
by which he ratifies and gives validity to the act of some other
person or body; establishment or furtherance of anything by authority
to it; confirmation; approbation.
The strictest professors of reason have added the sanction of their
testimony. I. Watts.

2. Anything done or said to enforce the will, law, or authority of
another; as, legal sanctions.

Syn.
 -- Ratification; authorization; authoruty; countenance; support.

SANCTION
Sanc"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sanctioned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sanctioning.]

Defn: To give sanction to; to ratify; to confirm; to approve.
Would have counseled, or even sanctioned, such perilous experiments.
De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- To ratify; confirm; authorize; countenance.

SANCTIONARY
Sanc"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or giving, sanction.

SANCTITUDE
Sanc"ti*tude, a. Etym: [L. sanctitudo.]

Defn: Holiness; sacredness; sanctity. [R.] milton.

SANCTITY
Sanc"ti*ty, n.; pl. Sanctities. Etym: [L. sanctitas, from sanctus
holy. See Saint.]

1. The state or quality of being sacred or holy; holiness;
saintliness; moral purity; godliness.
To sanctity she made no pretense, and, indeed, narrowly escaped the
imputation of irreligion. Macaulay.

2. Sacredness; solemnity; inviolability; religious binding force; as,
the sanctity of an oath.

3. A saint or holy being. [R.]
About him all the sanctities of heaven. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Holiness; godliness; piety; devotion; goodness; purity;
religiousness;sacredness; solemnity. See the Note under Religion.

SANCTUARIZE
Sanc"tu*a*rize, v. t.

Defn: To shelter by means of a sanctuary or sacred privileges. [Obs.]
Shak.

SANCTUARY
Sanc"tu*a*ry, n.; pl. Sanctuaries. Etym: [OE. seintuare, OF.
saintuaire, F. sanctuaire, fr. L. sanctuarium, from sanctus sacred,
holy. See Saint.]

Defn: A sacred place; a consecrated spot; a holy and inviolable site.
Hence, specifically:
(a) The most retired part of the temple at Jerusalem, called the Holy
of Holies, in which was kept the ark of the covenant, and into which
no person was permitted to enter except the high priest, and he only
once a year, to intercede for the people; also, the most sacred part
of the tabernacle; also, the temple at Jerusalem.
(b) (Arch.) The most sacred part of any religious building, esp. that
part of a Christian church in which the altar is placed.
(c) A house consecrated to the worship of God; a place where divine
service is performed; a church, temple, or other place of worship.
(d) A sacred and inviolable asylum; a place of refuge and protection;
shelter; refuge; protection.
These laws, whoever made them, bestowed on temples the privelege of
sanctuary. Milton
.
These admirable works of painting were made fuel for the fire; but
some relics of it took sanctuary under ground, and escaped the common
destiny. Dryden.
Wildlife sanctuary, a tract of land set aside by law for the
preservation of wildlife, in which no hunting is permitted.

SANCTUM
Sanc"tum, n. Etym: [L., p.p. of sanctire to consecrate.]

Defn: A sacred place; hence, a place of retreat; a room reserved for
personal use; as, an editor's sanctum. Sanctum sanctorum Etym: [L.] ,
the Holy of Holies; the most holy place, as in the Jewish temple.

SANCTUS
Sanc"tus, n. Etym: [L. sanctus, p.p. of sancire.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: A part of the Mass, or, in Protestant churches, a part of the
communion service, of which the first words in Latin are Sanctus,
sanctus, sanctus [Holy, holy, holy]; -- called also Tersanctus.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: An anthem composed for these words. Sanctus bell, a small bell
usually suspended in a bell cot at the apex of the nave roof, over
the chancel arch, in mediæval churches, but a hand bell is now often
used; -- so called because rung at the singing of the sanctus, at the
conclusion of the ordinary of the Mass, and again at the elevation of
the host. Called also Mass bell, sacring bell, saints' bell, sance-
bell, sancte bell.

SAND
Sand, n. Etym: [AS. sand; akin to D. zand, G. sand, OHG. sant, Icel.
sandr, Dan. & Sw. sand, Gr.

1. Fine particles of stone, esp. of siliceous stone, but not reduced
to dust; comminuted stone in the form of loose grains, which are not
coherent when wet.
That finer matter, called sand, is no other than very small pebbles.
Woodsward.

2. A single particle of such stone. [R.] Shak.

3. The sand in the hourglass; hence, a moment or interval of time;
the term or extent of one's life.
The sands are numbered that make up my life. Shak.

4. pl.

Defn: Tracts of land consisting of sand, like the deserts of Arabia
and Africa; also, extensive tracts of sand exposed by the ebb of the
tide. "The Libyan sands." Milton. "The sands o'Dee." C. Kingsley.

5. Courage; pluck; grit. [Slang] Sand badger (Zoöl.), the Japanese
badger (Meles ankuma).
 -- Sand bag (a) A bag filled with sand or earth, used for various
purposes, as in fortification, for ballast, etc. (b) A long bag
filled with sand, used as a club by assassins.
 -- Sand ball, soap mixed with sand, made into a ball for use at the
toilet.
 -- Sand bath. (a) (Chem.) A vessel of hot sand in a laboratory, in
which vessels that are to be heated are partially immersed. (b) A
bath in which the body is immersed in hot sand.
 -- Sand bed, a thick layer of sand, whether deposited naturally or
artificially; specifically, a thick layer of sand into which molten
metal is run in casting, or from a reducing furnace.
 -- Sand birds (Zoöl.), a collective name for numerous species of
limicoline birds, such as the sandpipers, plovers, tattlers, and many
others; -- called also shore birds.
 -- Sand blast, a process of engraving and cutting glass and other
hard substances by driving sand against them by a steam jet or
otherwise; also, the apparatus used in the process.
 -- Sand box. (a) A box with a perforated top or cover, for
sprinkling paper with sand. (b) A box carried on locomotives, from
which sand runs on the rails in front of the driving wheel, to
prevent slipping.
 -- Sand-box tree (Bot.), a tropical American tree (Hura crepitans).
Its fruit is a depressed many-celled woody capsule which, when
completely dry, bursts with a loud report and scatters the seeds. See
Illust. of Regma.
 -- Sand bug (Zoöl.), an American anomuran crustacean (Hippa
talpoidea) which burrows in sandy seabeaches. It is often used as
bait by fishermen. See Illust. under Anomura.
 -- Sand canal (Zoöl.), a tubular vessel having a calcareous coating,
and connecting the oral ambulacral ring with the madreporic tubercle.
It appears to be excretory in function.
 -- Sand cock (Zoöl.), the redshank. [Prov. Eng.] -- Sand collar.
(Zoöl.) Same as Sand saucer, below.
 -- Sand crab. (Zoöl.) (a) The lady crab. (b) A land crab, or
ocypodian.
 -- Sand crack (Far.), a crack extending downward from the coronet,
in the wall of a horse's hoof, which often causes lameness.
 -- Sand cricket (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large
terrestrial crickets of the genus Stenophelmatus and allied genera,
native of the sandy plains of the Western United States.
 -- Sand cusk (Zoöl.), any ophidiod fish. See Illust. under Ophidiod.
 -- Sand dab (Zoöl.), a small American flounder (Limanda ferruginea);
-- called also rusty dab. The name is also applied locally to other
allied species.
 -- Sand darter (Zoöl.), a small etheostomoid fish of the Ohio valley
(Ammocrypta pellucida).
 -- Sand dollar (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small flat
circular sea urchins, which live on sandy bottoms, especially
Echinarachnius parma of the American coast.
 -- Sand drift, drifting sand; also, a mound or bank of drifted sand.
 -- Sand eel. (Zoöl.) (a) A lant, or launce. (b) A slender Pacific
Ocean fish of the genus Gonorhynchus, having barbels about the mouth.
 -- Sand flag, sandstone which splits up into flagstones.
 -- Sand flea. (Zoöl.) (a) Any species of flea which inhabits, or
breeds in, sandy places, especially the common dog flea. (b) the
chigoe. (c) Any leaping amphipod crustacean; a beach flea, or
orchestian. See Beach flea, under Beach.
 -- Sand flood, a vast body of sand borne along by the wind. James
Bruce.
 -- Sand fluke. (Zoöl.) (a) The sandnecker. (b) The European smooth
dab (Pleuronectes microcephalus); -- called also kitt, marysole,
smear dab, town dab.
 -- Sand fly (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small dipterous
flies of the genus Simulium, abounding on sandy shores, especially
Simulium nocivum of the United States. They are very troublesome on
account of their biting habits. Called also no-see-um, punky, and
midge.
 -- Sand gall (Geol.) See Sand pipe, below.
 -- Sand grass (Bot.), any species of grass which grows in sand;
especially, a tufted grass (Triplasis purpurea) with numerous bearded
joints, and acid awl-shaped leaves, growing on the Atlantic coast.

-- Sand grouse (Zoöl.), any one of many species of Old World birds
belonging to the suborder Pterocletes, and resembling both grouse and
pigeons. Called also rock grouse, rock pigeon, and ganga. They mostly
belong to the genus Pterocles, as the common Indian species (P.
exustus). The large sand grouse (P. arenarius), the painted sand
grouse (P. fasciatus), and the pintail sand grouse (P. alchata) are
also found in India. See Illust. under Pterocletes.
 -- Sand hill, a hill of sand; a dune.
 -- Sand-hill crane (Zoöl.), the American brown crane (Grus
Mexicana).
 -- Sand hopper (Zoöl.), a beach flea; an orchestian.
 -- Sand hornet (Zoöl.), a sand wasp.
 -- Sand lark. (Zoöl.) (a) A small lark (Alaudala raytal), native of
India. (b) A small sandpiper, or plover, as the ringneck, the
sanderling, and the common European sandpiper. (c) The Australian
red-capped dotterel (Ægialophilus ruficapillus); -- called also red-
necked plover.
 -- Sand launce (Zoöl.), a lant, or launce.
 -- Sand lizard (Zoöl.), a common European lizard (Lacerta agilis).
 -- Sand martin (Zoöl.), the bank swallow.
 -- Sand mole (Zoöl.), the coast rat.
 -- Sand monitor (Zoöl.), a large Egyptian lizard (Monitor arenarius)
which inhabits dry localities.
 -- Sand mouse (Zoöl.), the dunlin. [Prov. Eng.] -- Sand myrtle.
(Bot.) See under Myrtle.
 -- Sand partridge (Zoöl.), either of two small Asiatic partridges of
the genus Ammoperdix. The wings are long and the tarsus is spurless.
One species (A. Heeji) inhabits Palestine and Arabia. The other
species (A. Bonhami), inhabiting Central Asia, is called also seesee
partridge, and teehoo.
 -- Sand picture, a picture made by putting sand of different colors
on an adhesive surface.
 -- Sand pike. (Zoöl.) (a) The sauger. (b) The lizard fish.
 -- Sand pillar, a sand storm which takes the form of a whirling
pillar in its progress in desert tracts like those of the Sahara and
Mongolia.
 -- Sand pipe (Geol.), a tubular cavity, from a few inches to several
feet in dept, occurring especially in calcareous rocks, and often
filled with gravel, sand, etc.; -- called also sand gall.
 -- Sand pride (Zoöl.), a small british lamprey now considered to be
the young of larger species; -- called also sand prey.
 -- Sand pump, in artesian well boring, a long, slender bucket with a
valve at the bottom for raising sand from the well.
 -- Sand rat (Zoöl.), the pocket gopher.
 -- Sand rock, a rock made of cemented sand.
 -- Sand runner (Zoöl.), the turnstone.
 -- Sand saucer (Zoöl.), the mass of egg capsules, or oöthecæ, of any
mollusk of the genus Natica and allied genera. It has the shape of a
bottomless saucer, and is coated with fine sand; -- called also sand
collar.
 -- Sand screw (Zoöl.), an amphipod crustacean (Lepidactylis
arenarius), which burrows in the sandy seabeaches of Europe and
America.
 -- Sand shark (Zoöl.), an American shark (Odontaspis littoralis)
found on the sandy coasts of the Eastern United States; -- called
also gray shark, and dogfish shark. See Illust. under Remora.
 -- Sand skink (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Old World
lizards belonging to the genus Seps; as, the ocellated sand skink
(Seps ocellatus) of Southern Europe.
 -- Sand skipper (Zoöl.), a beach flea, or orchestian.
 -- Sand smelt (Zoöl.), a silverside.
 -- Sand snake. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of harmless
burrowing snakes of the genus Eryx, native of Southern Europe,
Africa, and Asia, especially E. Jaculus of India and E. Johnii, used
by snake charmers. (b) Any innocuous South African snake of the genus
Psammophis, especially P. sibilans.
 -- Sand snipe (Zoöl.), the sandpiper.
 -- Sand star (Zoöl.), an ophiurioid starfish living on sandy sea
bottoms; a brittle star.
 -- Sand storm, a cloud of sand driven violently by the wind.
 -- Sand sucker, the sandnecker.
 -- Sand swallow (Zoöl.), the bank swallow. See under Bank.
 -- Sand tube, a tube made of sand. Especially:
(a) A tube of vitrified sand, produced by a stroke of lightning; a
fulgurite.
(b) (Zoöl.) Any tube made of cemented sand.
(c) (Zoöl. ) In starfishes, a tube having calcareous particles in its
wall, which connects the oral water tube with the madreporic plate.
 -- Sand viper. (Zoöl.) See Hognose snake.
 -- Sand wasp (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of hymenopterous
insects belonging to the families Pompilidæ and Spheridæ, which dig
burrows in sand. The female provisions the nest with insects or
spiders which she paralyzes by stinging, and which serve as food for
her young.

SAND
Sand, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sanded; p. pr. & vb. n. Sanding.]

1. To sprinkle or cover with sand.

2. To drive upon the sand. [Obs.] Burton.

3. To bury (oysters) beneath drifting sand or mud.

4. To mix with sand for purposes of fraud; as, to sand sugar.
[Colloq.]

SANDAL
San"dal, n.

Defn: Same as Sendal.
Sails of silk and ropes of sandal. Longfellow.

SANDAL
San"dal, n.

Defn: Sandalwood. "Fans of sandal." Tennyson.

SANDAL
San"dal, n. Etym: [F. sandale, L. sandalium, Gr. sandal.]
(a) A kind of shoe consisting of a sole strapped to the foot; a
protection for the foot, covering its lower surface, but not its
upper.
(b) A kind of slipper.
(c) An overshoe with parallel openings across the instep.

SANDALED
San"daled, a.

1. Wearing sandals.
The measured footfalls of his sandaled feet. Longfellow.

2. Made like a sandal.

SANDALIFORM
San*dal"i*form, a. Etym: [Sandal + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a sandal or slipper.

SANDALWOOD
San"dal*wood, n. Etym: [F. sandal, santal, fr. Ar. çandal, or Gr.
sa`ntalon; both ultimately fr. Skr. candana. Cf. Sanders.] (Bot.)
(a) The highly perfumed yellowish heartwood of an East Indian and
Polynesian tree (Santalum album), and of several other trees of the
same genus, as the Hawaiian Santalum Freycinetianum and S.
pyrularium, the Australian S. latifolium, etc. The name is extended
to several other kinds of fragrant wood.
(b) Any tree of the genus Santalum, or a tree which yields
sandalwood.
(c) The red wood of a kind of buckthorn, used in Russia for dyeing
leather (Rhamnus Dahuricus). False sandalwood, the fragrant wood of
several trees not of the genus Santalum, as Ximenia Americana,
Myoporum tenuifolium of Tahiti.
 -- Red sandalwood, a heavy, dark red dyewood, being the heartwood of
two leguminous trees of India (Pterocarpus santalinus, and
Adenanthera pavonina); -- called also red sanderswood, sanders or
saunders, and rubywood.

SANDARACH; SANDARAC
San"da*rach, San"da*rac, (, n. Etym: [L. sandaraca, Gr.

1. (Min.)

Defn: Realgar; red sulphide of arsenic. [Archaic]

2. (Bot. Chem.)

Defn: A white or yellow resin obtained from a Barbary tree (Callitris
quadrivalvis or Thuya articulata), and pulverized for pounce; --
probably so called from a resemblance to the mineral.

SANDBAGGER
Sand"bag`ger, n.

Defn: An assaulter whose weapon is a sand bag. See Sand bag, under
Sand.

SAND-BLIND
Sand"-blind", a. Etym: [For sam blind half blind; AS. sam- half (akin
to semi-) + blind.]

Defn: Having defective sight; dim-sighted; purblind. Shak.

SANDED
Sand"ed, a.

1. Covered or sprinkled with sand; sandy; barren. Thomson.

2. Marked with small spots; variegated with spots; speckled; of a
sandy color, as a hound. Shak.

3. Short-sighted. [Prov. Eng.]

SANDEMANIAN
San`de*ma"ni*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Robert Sandeman, a Scotch sectary of the
eighteenth century. See Glassite.

SANDEMANIANISM
San`de*ma"ni*an*ism, n.

Defn: The faith or system of the Sandemanians. A. Fuller.

SANDERLING
San"der*ling, n. Etym: [Sand + 0ling. So called because it obtains
its food by searching the moist sands of the seashore.] (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: A small gray and brown sandpiper (Calidris arenaria) very
common on sandy beaches in America, Europe, and Asia. Called also
curwillet, sand lark, stint, and ruddy plover.

SANDERS
San"ders, n. Etym: [See Sandal.]

Defn: An old name of sandalwood, now applied only to the red
sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.

SANDERS-BLUE
San"ders-blue", n.

Defn: See Saundersblue.

SANDEVER
San"de*ver, n.

Defn: See Sandiver. [Obs.]

SANDFISH
Sand"fish`, n. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: A small marine fish of the Pacific coast of North America
(Trichodon trichodon) which buries itself in the sand.

SANDGLASS
Sand"glass`, n.

Defn: An instrument for measuring time by the running of sand. See
Hourglass.

SANDHILLER
Sand"hill`er, n.

Defn: A nickname given to any "poor white" living in the pine woods
which cover the sandy hills in Georgia and South Carolina. [U.S.]

SANDINESS
Sand"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sandy, or of being of a sandy
color.

SANDISH
Sand"ish, a.

Defn: Approaching the nature of sand; loose; not compact. [Obs.]
Evelyn.

SANDIVER
San"di*ver, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. OF. sa\'8bn grease, fat + de of +
verre glass (cf. Saim), or fr. F. sel de verre sandiver.]

Defn: A whitish substance which is cast up, as a scum, from the
materials of glass in fusion, and, floating on the top, is skimmed
off; -- called also glass gall. [Formerly written also sandever.]

SANDIX
San"dix, n. Etym: [L. sandix, sandyx, vermilion, or a color like
vermilion, Gr.

Defn: A kind of minium, or red lead, made by calcining carbonate of
lead, but inferior to true minium. [Written also sandyx.] [Obs.]

SAND-LOT
Sand"-lot`, a.

Defn: Lit., of or pert. to a lot or piece of sandy ground, -- hence,
pert. to, or characteristic of, the policy or practices of the
socialistic or communistic followers of the Irish agitator Denis
Kearney, who delivered many of his speeches in the open sand lots
about San Francisco; as, the sand-lot constitution of California,
framed in 1879, under the influence of sand-lot agitation.

SANDMAN
Sand"man`, n.

Defn: A mythical person who makes children sleepy, so that they rub
their eyes as if there were sand in them.

SANDNECKER
Sand"neck`er, n. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: A European flounder (Hippoglossoides limandoides); -- called
also rough dab, long fluke, sand fluke, and sand sucker.

SANDPAPER
Sand"pa`per, n.

Defn: Paper covered on one side with sand glued fast, -- used for
smoothing and polishing.

SANDPAPER
Sand"pa`per, v. t.

Defn: To smooth or polish with sandpaper; as, to sandpaper a door.

SANDPIPER
Sand"pi`per, n.

1. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small limicoline game birds
belonging to Tringa, Actodromas, Ereunetes, and various allied genera
of the family Tringid\'91.

Note: The most important North American species are the pestoral
sandpiper (Tringa maculata), called also browback, grass snipe, and
jacksnipe; the red-backed, or black-breasted, sandpiper, or dunlin
(T. alpina); the purple sandpiper (T.maritima: the red-breasted
sandpiper, or knot (T. canutus); the semipalmated sandpiper
(Ereunetes pusillus); the spotted sandpiper, or teeter-tail (Actitis
macularia); the buff-breasted sandpiper (Tryngites subruficollis),
and the Bartramian sandpiper, or upland plover. See under Upland.
Among the European species are the dunlin, the knot, the ruff, the
sanderling, and the common sandpiper (Actitis, or tringoides,
hypoleucus), called also fiddler, peeper, pleeps, weet-weet, and
summer snipe. Some of the small plovers and tattlers are also called
sandpipers.

2. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: A small lamprey eel; the pride. Curlew sandpiper. See under
Curlew.
 -- Stilt sandpiper. See under Stilt.

SANDPIT
Sand"pit`, n.

Defn: A pit or excavation from which sand is or has been taken.

SANDRE
San"dre, n. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: A Russian fish (Lucioperca sandre) which yields a valuable oil,
called sandre oil, used in the preparation of caviare.

SANDSTONE
Sand"stone`, n.

Defn: A rock made of sand more or less firmly united. Common or
siliceous sandstone consists mainly of quartz sand.

Note: Different names are aplied to the various kinds of sandstone
according to their composition; as, granitic, argillaceous,
micaceous, etc. Flexible sandstone (Min.), the finer-grained variety
of itacolumite, which on account of the scales of mica in the
lamination is quite flexible.
 -- Red sandstone, a name given to two extensive series of British
rocks in which red sandstones predominate, one below, and the other
above, the coal measures. These were formerly known as the Old and
the New Red Sandstone respectively, and the former name is still
retained for the group preceding the Coal and referred to the
Devonian age, but the term New Red Sandstone is now little used, some
of the strata being regarded as Permian and the remained as Triassic.
See the Chart of Geology.

SANDWICH
Sand"wich, n. Etym: [Named from the Earl of Sandwich.]

Defn: Two pieces of bread and butter with a thin slice of meat,
cheese, or the like, between them.

SANDWICH
Sand"wich, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sandwiched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sandwiching.]

Defn: To make into a sandwich; also, figuratively, to insert between
portions of something dissimilar; to form of alternate parts or
things, or alternating layers of a different nature; to interlard.

SANDWORM
Sand"worm`, n. (Zo\'94l.)
(a) Any one of numerous species of annelids which burrow in the sand
of the seashore.
(b) Any species of annelids of the genus Sabellaria. They construct
firm tubes of agglutinated sand on rocks and shells, and are
sometimes destructive to oysters.
(c) The chigoe, a species of flea.

SANDWORT
Sand"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Arenaria, low, tufted herbs (order
Caryophyllace\'91.)

SANDY
Sand"y, a. [Compar. Sandier; superl. Sandiest.] Etym: [AS. sandig.]

1. Consisting of, abounding with, or resembling, sand; full of sand;
covered or sprinkled with sand; as, a sandy desert, road, or soil.

2. Of the color of sand; of a light yellowish red color; as, sandy
hair.

SANDYX
San"dyx, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: See Sandix.

SANE
Sane, a. Etym: [L. sanus; cf. Gr. Sound, a.]

1. Being in a healthy condition; not deranged; acting rationally; --
said of the mind.

2. Mentally sound; possessing a rational mind; having the mental
faculties in such condition as to be able to anticipate and judge of
the effect of one's actions in an ordinary maner; -- said of persons.

Syn.
 -- Sound; healthy; underanged; unbroken.

SANENESS
Sane"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being sane; sanity.

SANG
Sang,

Defn: imp. of Sing.

SANGA; SANGU
San"ga, San"gu, n. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: The Abyssinian ox (Bos or Bibos, Africanus), noted for the
great length of its horns. It has a hump on its back.

SANGAREE
San`ga*ree", n. Etym: [Sp. sangria, lit., bleeding, from sangre,
blood, L. sanguis.]

Defn: Wine and water sweetened and spiced, -- a favorite West Indian
drink.

SANG-FROID
Sang`-froid", n. Etym: [F., cold blood.]

Defn: Freedom from agitation or excitement of mind; coolness in
trying circumstances; indifference; calmness. Burke.

SANGIAC
San"gi*ac, n.

Defn: See Sanjak.

SANGRAAL; SANGREAL
San`graal", San"gre*al, n. Etym: [See Saint, and Grail.]

Defn: See Holy Grail, under Grail.

SANGUIFEROUS
San*guif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. sanguis blood + -ferous.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Conveying blood; as, sanguiferous vessels, i. e., the arteries,
veins, capillaries.

SANGUIFICATION
San`gui*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sanguification. See Sanguify.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: The production of blood; the conversion of the products of
digestion into blood; hematosis.

SANGUIFIER
San"gui*fi`er, n.

Defn: A producer of blood.

SANGUIFLUOUS
San*guif"lu*ous, a. Etym: [L. sanguis blood + fluere to flow.]

Defn: Flowing or running with blood.

SANGUIFY
San"gui*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. sanguis blood + -fy: cf. F. sanguifier.]

Defn: To produce blood from.

SANGUIGENOUS
San*guig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. sanguis + -genous.]

Defn: Producing blood; as, sanguigenous food.

SANGUINACEOUS
San`gui*na"ceous, n.

Defn: Of a blood-red color; sanguine.

SANGUINARIA
San`gui*na"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Sanguinary, a. & n.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the Poppy family.

Note: Sanguinaria Canadensis, or bloodroot, is the only species. It
has a perennial rootstock, which sends up a few roundish lobed leaves
and solitary white blossoms in early spring. See Bloodroot.

2. The rootstock of the bloodroot, used in medicine as an emetic,
etc.

SANGUINARILY
San"gui*na*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sanguinary manner.

SANGUINARINESS
San"gui*na*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sanguinary.

SANGUINARY
San"gui*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. sanguinarius, fr. sanguis blood: cf.
F.sanguinaire.]

1. Attended with much bloodshed; bloody; murderous; as, a sanguinary
war, contest, or battle.
We may not propagate religion by wars, or by sanguinary persecutions
to force consciences. Bacon.

2. Bloodthirsty; cruel; eager to shed blood.
Passion . . . makes us brutal and sanguinary. Broome.

SANGUINARY
San"gui*na*ry, n. Etym: [L. herba sanguinaria an herb that stanches
blood: cf. F. sanguinaire. See Sanguinary, a.] (Bot.)
(a) The yarrow.
(b) The Sanguinaria.

SANGUINE
San"guine, a. Etym: [F. sanguin, L. sanguineus, fr. sanguis blood.
Cf. Sanguineous.]

1. Having the color of blood; red.
Of his complexion he was sanguine. Chaucer.
Like to that sanguine flower inscribed with woe. Milton.

2. Characterized by abundance and active circulation of blood; as, a
sanguine bodily temperament.

3. Warm; ardent; as, a sanguine temper.

4. Anticipating the best; not desponding; confident; full of hope;
as, sanguine of success.

Syn.
 -- Warm; ardent; lively; confident; hopeful.

SANGUINE
San"guine, n.

1. Blood color; red. Spenser.

2. Anything of a blood-red, as cloth. [Obs.]
In sanguine and in pes he clad was all. Chaucer.

3. (Min.)

Defn: Bloodstone.

4. Red crayon. See the Note under Crayon, 1.

SANGUINE
San"guine, v. t.

Defn: To stain with blood; to impart the color of blood to; to
ensanguine.

SANGUINE
San"guine, adv.

Defn: In a sanguine manner.
I can not speculate quite so sanguinely as he does. Burke.

SANGUINELESS
San"guine*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of blood; pale. [R.]

SANGUINELY
San"guine*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sanguine manner.

I can not speculate quite so sanguinely as he does.
Burke.

SANGUINENESS
San"guine*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being sanguine.

SANGUINEOUS
San*guin"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. sanguineus. See Sanguine.]

1. Abounding with blood; sanguine.

2. Of or pertaining to blood; bloody; constituting blood. Sir T.
Browne.

3. Blood-red; crimson. Keats.

SANGUINITY
san*guin"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being sanguine; sanguineness. Swift.

SANGUINIVOROUS
San"gui*niv"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. sanguis + vorare to devour.]

Defn: Subsisting on blood.

SANGUINOLENCY
San*guin"o*len*cy, n.

Defn: The state of being sanguinolent, or bloody.

SANGUINOLENT
San*guin"o*lent, a. Etym: [L. sanguinolentus, from sanguis blood: cf.
F. sanguinolent.]

Defn: Tinged or mingled with blood; bloody; as, sanguinolent sputa.

SANGUISUGE
San"gui*suge, n. Etym: [L. sanguisuga; sanguis blood + sugere to
suck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bloodsucker, or leech.

SANGUIVOROUS
San*guiv"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. sanguis blood + vorare to devour.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Subsisting upon blood; -- said of certain blood-sucking bats
and other animals. See Vampire.

SANHEDRIN; SANHEDRIM
San"he*drin, San"he*drim, n. Etym: [Heb. sanhedrin, fr. Gr. Sit.]
(Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: the great council of the Jews, which consisted of seventy
members, to whom the high priest was added. It had jurisdiction of
religious matters.

SANHEDRIST
San"he*drist, n.

Defn: A member of the sanhedrin. Schaeffer (Lange's Com. ).

SANHITA
San"hi*ta, n. Etym: [Skr. samhita, properly, combination.]

Defn: A collection of vedic hymns, songs, or verses, forming the
first part of each Veda.

SANICLE
San"i*cle, n. Etym: [F., from L. sanare to heal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Sanicula, reputed to have
healing powers.

SANIDINE
San"i*dine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of orthoclase feldspar common in certain eruptive
rocks, as trachyte; -- called also glassy feldspar.

SANIES
Sa"ni*es, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: A thin, serous fluid commonly discharged from ulcers or foul
wounds.

SANIOUS
Sa"ni*ous, a. Etym: [L. sanious, fr. sanies: cf. F. sanieux.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: pertaining to sanies, or partaking of its nature and
appearance; thin and serous, with a slight bloody tinge; as, the
sanious matter of an ulcer.

2. (med.)

Defn: Discharging sanies; as, a sanious ulcer.

SANITARIAN
San`i*ta"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to health, or the laws of health; sanitary.

SANITARIAN
San`i*ta"ri*an, n.

Defn: An advocate of sanitary measures; one especially interested or
versed in sanitary measures.

SANITARIST
San"i*ta*rist, n.

Defn: A sanitarian.

SANITARIUM
San`i*ta"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Sanitary.]

Defn: A health station or retreat; a sanatorium. "A sanitarium for
troops." L. Oliphant.

SANITARY
San"i*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. sanitas health: cf. F. sanitaire. See
Sanity.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to health; designed to secure or preserve
health; relating to the preservation or restoration of health;
hygienic; as, sanitary regulations. See the Note under Sanatory.
Sanitary Commission. See under Commission.

SANITATION
San`i*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of rendering sanitary; the science of sanitary
conditions; the preservation of health; the use of sanitary measures;
hygiene.
How much sanitation has advanced during the last half century. H.
Hartshorne.

SANITY
San"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. saniras, from sanus sound, healthy. See Sane.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being sane; soundness of health of
body or mind, especially of the mind; saneness.

SANJAK
San"jak, n. Etym: [Turk. sanjag.]

Defn: A district or a subvision of a vilayet. [Turkey]

SAN JOSE SCALE
San Jo*sé" scale.

Defn: A very destructive scale insect (Aspidiotus perniciosus) that
infests the apple, pear, and other fruit trees. So called because
first introduced into the United States at San José, California.

SANK
Sank,

Defn: imp. of Sink.

SANKHA
Sank"ha, n. Etym: [Skr. çankha a shell.]

Defn: A chank shell (Turbinella pyrum); also, a shell bracelet or
necklace made in India from the chank shell.

SANKHYA
Sankh"ya, n.

Defn: A Hindoo system of philosophy which refers all things to soul
and a rootless germ called prakriti, consisting of three elements,
goodness, passion, and darkness. Whitworth.

SANNOP
San"nop (sân"nôp), n.

Defn: same as Sannup. Bancroft.

SANNUP
San"nup (-nûp), n.

Defn: A male Indian; a brave; -- correlative of squaw.

SANNY
San"ny, n.

Defn: The sandpiper. [prov. Eng.]

SANS
Sans (sän; E. sânz), prep. Etym: [F., from L. sine without.]

Defn: Without; deprived or destitute of. Rarely used as an English
word. "Sans fail." Chaucer.
Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything. Shak.

SANSCRIT
San"scrit, n.

Defn: See Sanskrit.

SANS-CULOTTE
Sans`-cu`lotte" (F. ; E. , n. Etym: [F., without breeches.]

1. A fellow without breeches; a ragged fellow; -- a name of reproach
given in the first French revolution to the extreme republican party,
who rejected breeches as an emblem peculiar to the upper classes or
aristocracy, and adopted pantaloons.

2. Hence, an extreme or radical republican; a violent revolutionist;
a Jacobin.

SANS-CULOTTIC
Sans`-cu*lot"tic, a.

Defn: pertaining to, or involving, sans-culottism; radical;
revolutionary; Jacobinical. Carlyle.

SANS-CULOTTISM
Sans`-cu*lot"tism, n. Etym: [F. sans-culottisme.]

Defn: Extreme republican principles; the principles or practice of
the sans-culottes.

SANSKRIT
San"skrit, n. Etym: [Skr. Samskrsta the Sanskrit language, literally,
the perfect, polished, or classical language, fr. samskrsta prepared,
wrought, made,excellent, perfect; sam together (akin to E. same) +
krsta made. See Same, Create.] [Written also Sanscrit.]

Defn: The ancient language of the Hindoos, long since obsolete in
vernacular use, but preserved to the present day as the literary and
sacred dialect of India. It is nearly allied to the Persian, and to
the principal languages of Europe, classical and modern, and by its
more perfect preservation of the roots and forms of the primitive
language from which they are all descended, is a most important
assistance in determining their history and relations. Cf. Prakrit,
and Veda.

SANSKRIT
San"skrit, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Sanskrit; written in Sanskrit; as, a
Sanskrit dictionary or inscription.

SANSKRITIC
San*skrit"ic, a.

Defn: Sanskrit.

SANSKRITIST
San"skrit*ist, n.

Defn: One versed in Sanskrit.

SANS-SOUCI
Sans`-sou`ci, adv. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Without care; free and easy.

SANTAL
San"tal, n. Etym: [Santalum + piperonal.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless crystalline substance, isomeric with piperonal, but
having weak acid properties. It is extracted from sandalwood.

SANTALACEOUS
San`ta*la"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Santalaceæ), of
which the genus Santalum is the type, and which includes the buffalo
nut and a few other North American plants, and many peculiar plants
of the southern hemisphere.

SANTALIC
San*tal"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sandalwood (Santalum); --
used specifically to designate an acid obtained as a resinous or red
crystalline dyestuff, which is called also santalin.

SANTALIN
San"ta*lin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. santaline.] (Chem.)

Defn: Santalic acid. See Santalic.

SANTALUM
San"ta*lum, n. Etym: [NL. See Sandalwood.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees with entire opposite leaves and small
apetalous flowers. There are less than a dozen species, occuring from
India to Australia and the Pacific Islands. See Sandalwood.

SANTEES
San`tees", n. pl.; sing. Santee (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of the seven confederated tribes of Indians belonging to
the Sioux, or Dakotas.

SANTER
San"ter, v. i.

Defn: See Saunter.

SANTON
San"ton, n. Etym: [Sp. santon, augment fr. santo holy, L. sanctus.]

Defn: A Turkish saint; a kind of dervish, regarded by the people as a
saint: also, a hermit.

SANTONATE
San"to*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of santonic acid.

SANTONIC
San*ton"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid (distinct from
santoninic acid) obtained from santonin as a white crystalline
substance.

SANTONIN
San"to*nin, n. Etym: [L. herba santonica, a kind of plant, fr.
Santoni a people of Aquitania; cf. Gr. santonine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance having a bitter taste, extracted
from the buds of levant wormseed and used as an anthelmintic. It
occassions a peculiar temporary color blindness, causing objects to
appear as if seen through a yellow glass.

SANTONINATE
San"to*nin`ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of santoninic acid.

SANTONINIC
San`to*nin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to santonin; -- used specifically to designate
an acid not known in the free state, but obtained in its salts.

SAO
Sa"o, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any marine annelid of the genus Hyalinæcia, especially H.
tubicola of Europe, which inhabits a transparent movable tube
resembling a quill in color and texture.

SAP
Sap, n. Etym: [AS. sæp; akin to OHG. saf, G. saft, Icel. safi; of
uncertain origin; possibly akin to L. sapere to taste, to be wise,
sapa must or new wine boiled thick. Cf. Sapid, Sapient.]

1. The juice of plants of any kind, especially the ascending and
descending juices or circulating fluid essential to nutrition.

Note: The ascending is the crude sap, the assimilation of which takes
place in the leaves, when it becomes the elaborated sap suited to the
growth of the plant.

2. The sapwood, or alburnum, of a tree.

3. A simpleton; a saphead; a milksop. [Slang] Sap ball (Bot.), any
large fungus of the genus Polyporus. See Polyporus.
 -- Sap green, a dull light green pigment prepared from the juice of
the ripe berries of the Rhamnus catharticus, or buckthorn. It is used
especially by water-color artists.
 -- Sap rot, the dry rot. See under Dry.
 -- Sap sucker (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small American
woodpeckers of the genus Sphyrapicus, especially the yellow-bellied
woodpecker (S. varius) of the Eastern United States. They are so
named because they puncture the bark of trees and feed upon the sap.
The name is loosely applied to other woodpeckers.
 -- Sap tube (Bot.), a vessel that conveys sap.

SAP
Sap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Saped; p. pr. & vb. n. Sapping.] Etym: [F.
saper (cf. Sp. zapar, It. zapare), fr. sape a sort of scythe, LL.
sappa a sort of mattock.]

1. To subvert by digging or wearing away; to mine; to undermine; to
destroy the foundation of.
Nor safe their dwellings were, for sapped by floods, Their houses
fell upon their household gods. Dryden.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: To pierce with saps.

3. To make unstable or infirm; to unsettle; to weaken.
Ring out the grief that saps the mind. Tennyson.

SAP
Sap, v. i.

Defn: To proceed by mining, or by secretly undermining; to execute
saps. W. P. Craighill.
Both assaults carried on by sapping. Tatler.

SAP
Sap, n. (Mil.)

Defn: A narrow ditch or trench made from the foremost parallel toward
the glacis or covert way of a besieged place by digging under cover
of gabions, etc. Sap fagot (Mil.), a fascine about three feet long,
used in sapping, to close the crevices between the gabions before the
parapet is made.
 -- Sap roller (Mil.), a large gabion, six or seven feet long, filled
with fascines, which the sapper sometimes rolls along before him for
protection from the fire of an enemy.

SAPADILLO
Sap`a*dil"lo, n.

Defn: See Sapodila.

SAPAJO
Sap"a*jo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sapajou.

SAPAJOU
Sap"a*jou, n. Etym: [F. sapajou, sajou, Braz. sajuassu.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the
genus Cebus, having long and prehensile tails. Some of the species
are called also capuchins. The bonnet sapajou (C. subcristatus), the
golden-handed sapajou (C. chrysopus), and the white-throated sapajou
(C. hypoleucus) are well known species. See Capuchin.

SAPAN WOOD
Sa*pan" wood. Etym: [Malay sapang.] (Bot.)

Defn: A dyewood yielded by Cæsalpinia Sappan, a thorny leguminous
tree of Southern Asia and the neighboring islands. It is the original
Brazil wood. [Written also sappan wood.]

SAPFUL
Sap"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding in sap; sappy.

SAPHEAD
Sap"head`, n.

Defn: A weak-minded, stupid fellow; a milksop. [Low]

SAPHENOUS
Sa*phe"nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)
(a) Manifest; -- applied to the two principal superficial veins of
the lower limb of man.
(b) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the saphenous veins; as,
the saphenous nerves; the saphenous opening, an opening in the broad
fascia of the thigh through which the internal saphenous vein passes.

SAPID
Sap"id, a. Etym: [L. sapidus, fr. sapere to taste: cf. F. sapide. See
Sapient, Savor.]

Defn: Having the power of affecting the organs of taste; possessing
savor, or flavor.
Camels, to make the water sapid, do raise the mud with their feet.
Sir T. Browne.

SAPIDITY
Sa*pid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sapidité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sapid; taste; savor; savoriness.
Whether one kind of sapidity is more effective than another. M. S.
Lamson.

SAPIDNESS
Sap"id*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being sapid; sapidity.
When the Israelites fancied the sapidness and relish of the
fleshpots, they longed to taste and to return. Jer. Taylor.

SAPIENCE
Sa"pi*ence, n. Etym: [L. sapientia: cf. F. sapience. See Sapient..]

Defn: The quality of being sapient; wisdom; sageness; knowledge.
Cowper.
Woman, if I might sit beside your feet, And glean your scattered
sapience. Tennyson.

SAPIENT
Sa"pi*ent, a. Etym: [L. sapiens, -entis, p.pr. of sapere to taste to
have sense, to know. See Sage, a.]

Defn: Wise; sage; discerning; -- often in irony or contempt.
Where the sapient king Held dalliance with his fair Egyptian spouse.
Milton.

Syn.
 -- Sage; sagacious; knowing; wise; discerning.

SAPIENTIAL
Sa`pi*en"tial, a. Etym: [L. sapientialis.]

Defn: Having or affording wisdom.
 -- Sa`pi*en"tial*ly, adv.
The sapiential books of the Old [Testament]. Jer. Taylor.

SAPIENTIOUS
Sa`pi*en"tious, a.

Defn: Sapiential. [Obs.]

SAPIENTIZE
Sa"pi*ent*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make sapient. [R.] Coleridge.

SAPIENTLY
Sa"pi*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sapient manner.

SAPINDACEOUS
Sap`in*da"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an order of trees and shrubs (Sapindaceæ),
including the (Typical) genus Sapindus, the maples, the margosa, and
about seventy other genera.

SAPINDUS
Sa*pin"dus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. sapo soap + Indicus Indian.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical and subtropical trees with pinnate leaves
and panicled flowers. The fruits of some species are used instead of
soap, and their round black seeds are made into necklaces.

SAPLESS
Sap"less, a.

1. Destitute of sap; not juicy.

2. Fig.: Dry, old; husky; withered; spiritless. "A somewhat sapless
womanhood." Lowell.
Now sapless on the verge of death he stands. Dryden.

SAPLING
sap"ling, n.

Defn: A young tree. Shak.

SAPODILLA
Sap`o*dil"la, n. Etym: [Sp. zapote, sapotillo, zapotillo, Mexican
cochit-zapotl. Cf. Sapota.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tall, evergeen, tropical American tree (Achras Sapota); also,
its edible fruit, the sapodilla plum. [Written also sapadillo,
sappadilo, sappodilla, and zapotilla.] Sapodilla plum (Bot.), the
fruit of Achras Sapota. It is about the size of an ordinary quince,
having a rough, brittle, dull brown rind, the flesh being of a dirty
yellowish white color, very soft, and deliciously sweet. Called also
naseberry. It is eatable only when it begins to be spotted, and is
much used in desserts.

SAPOGENIN
Sa*pog"e*nin, n. Etym: [Saponin + -gen + in.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of
saponin.

SAPONACEOUS
Sap`o*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. sapo, -onis, soap, of Teutonic origin,
and akin to E. soap. See Soap.]

Defn: Resembling soap; having the qualities of soap; soapy.

Note: Saponaceous bodies are compounds of an acid and a base, and are
in reality a kind of salt.

SAPONACITY
Sap`o*nac"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being saponaceous.

SAPONARY
Sap"o*na*ry, a.

Defn: Saponaceous. Boyle.

SAPONIFIABLE
Sa*pon*i*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of conversion into soap; as, a saponifiable substance.

SAPONIFICATION
Sa*pon`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. saponification. See Saponify.]

Defn: The act, process, or result, of soap making; conversion into
soap; specifically (Chem.), the decomposition of fats and other
ethereal salts by alkalies; as, the saponification of ethyl acetate.

SAPONIFIER
Sa*pon"i*fi`er, n. (Chem.)

Defn: That which saponifies; any reagent used to cause
saponification.

SAPONIFY
Sa*pon"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Saponified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Saponifying.] Etym: [L. sapo, -onis, soap + -fy: cf. F. saponifier.]

Defn: To convert into soap, as tallow or any fat; hence (Chem.), to
subject to any similar process, as that which ethereal salts undergo
in decomposition; as, to saponify ethyl acetate.

SAPONIN
Sap"o*nin, n. Etym: [L. sapo, -onis soap: cf. F. saponine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous glucoside found in many plants, as in the root of
soapwort (Saponaria), in the bark of soap bark (Quillaia), etc. It is
extracted as a white amorphus powder, which occasions a soapy lather
in solution, and produces a local anæstesia. Formerly called also
struthiin, quilaiin, senegin, polygalic acid, etc. By extension, any
one of a group of related bodies of which saponin proper is the type.

SAPONITE
Sap"o*nite, n. Etym: [Sw. saponit, fr. L. sapo, -onis, soap.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous silicate of magnesia and aluminia. It occurs in soft,
soapy, amorphous masses, filling veins in serpentine and cavities in
trap rock.

SAPONUL
Sap"o*nul, n. Etym: [F. saponule, fr. L. sapo, -onis, soap.] (Old
Chem.)

Defn: A soapy mixture obtained by treating an essential oil with an
alkali; hence, any similar compound of an essential oil. [Written
also saponule.] [Obs.]

SAPOR
Sa"por, n. Etym: [L. See Savor.]

Defn: Power of affecting the organs of taste; savor; flavor; taste.
There is some sapor in all aliments. Sir T. Browne.

SAPORIFIC
Sap`o*rif"ic, a. Etym: [L. sapor taste + facere to make.]

Defn: Having the power to produce the sensation of taste; producing
taste, flavor, or relish.

SAPOROSITY
Sap`o*ros"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of a body by which it excites the sensation of
taste.

SAPOROUS
Sap"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. saporius that relishes well, savory, fr.
sapor taste.]

Defn: Having flavor or taste; yielding a taste. [R.] Bailey.

SAPOTA
Sa*po"ta, n. Etym: [NL., from Sp. sapote, zapote. See Sapodilla.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The sapodilla.

SAPOTACEOUS
Sap`o*ta"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sapotaceæ) of (mostly
tropical) trees and shrubs, including the star apple, the Lucuma, or
natural marmalade tree, the gutta-percha tree (Isonandra), and the
India mahwa, as well as the sapodilla, or sapota, after which the
order is named.

SAPPAN WOOD
Sap*pan" wood".

Defn: Sapan wood.

SAPPARE
Sap"pare, n. Etym: [F. sappare; -- so called by Saussure.] (Min.)

Defn: Kyanite. [Written also sappar.]

SAPPER
Sap"per, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sapeur.]

Defn: One who saps; specifically (Mil.), one who is employed in
working at saps, building and repairing fortifications, and the like.

SAPPHIC
Sap"phic, a. Etym: [L. Sapphicus, Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to Sappho, the Grecian poetess; as, Sapphic odes;
Sapphic verse.

2. (Pros.)

Defn: Belonging to, or in the manner of, Sappho; -- said of a certain
kind of verse reputed to have been invented by Sappho, consisting of
five feet, of which the first, fourth, and fifth are trochees, the
second is a spondee, and the third a dactyl.

SAPPHIC
Sap"phic, n. (Pros.)

Defn: A Sapphic verse.

SAPPHIRE
Sap"phire ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [OE. saphir, F. saphir, L. sapphirus,
Gr. sappir.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: Native alumina or aluminium sesquioxide, Al2O3; corundum; esp.,
the blue transparent variety of corundum, highly prized as a gem.
of rubies, sapphires, and of pearlés white. Chaucer.

Note: Sapphire occurs in hexagonal crystals and also in granular and
massive forms. The name sapphire is usually restricted to the blue
crystals, while the bright red crystals are called Oriental rubies
(see under Ruby), the amethystine variety Oriental amethyst (see
under Amethyst), and the dull massive varieties corundum (a name
which is also used as a general term to include all varieties). See
Corundum.

2. The color of the gem; bright blue.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any humming bird of the genus Hylocharis, native of South
America. The throat and breast are usually bright blue. Star
sapphire, or Asteriated sapphire (Min.), a kind of sapphire which
exhibits asterism.

SAPPHIRE
Sap"phire, a.

Defn: Of or resembling sapphire; sapphire; blue. "The sapphire
blaze." Gray.

SAPPHIRINE
Sap"phir*ine, n.

Defn: Resembling sapphire; made of sapphire; having the color, or any
quality of sapphire. "Sapphirine degree of hardness." Boyle.

SAPPHO
Sap"pho, n. Etym: [See Sapphic.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of brilliant South American humming
birds of the genus Sappho, having very bright-colored and deeply
forked tails; -- called also firetail.

SAPPINESS
Sap"pi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being sappy; juiciness.

SAPPODILLA
Sap`po*dil"la, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Sapodilla.

SAPPY
Sap"py, a. [Compar. Sappier; superl. Sappiest.] Etym: [From 1st Sap.]

1. Abounding with sap; full of sap; juisy; succulent.

2. Hence, young, not firm; weak, feeble.
When he had passed this weak and sapy age. Hayward.

3. Weak in intellect. [Low]

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Abounding in sap; resembling, or consisting lagerly of,
sapwood.

SAPPY
Sap"py, a. [Written also sapy.] Etym: [Cf. L. sapere to taste.]

Defn: Musty; tainted. [Obs.]

SAPROPHAGAN
Sa*proph"a*gan, n. Etym: [Gr. saprophage.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tribe of beetles which feed upon dacaying animal and
vegetable substances; a carrion beetle.

SAPROPHAGOUS
Sa*proph"a*gous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding on carrion.

SAPROPHYTE
Sap"ro*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant growing on dacayed animal or vegetable matter, as
most fungi and some flowering plants with no green color, as the
Indian pipe.

SAPROPHYTIC
Sap`ro*phyt"ic, a.

Defn: Feeding or growing upon decaying anomal or vegetable matter;
pertaining to a saprophyte or the saprophytes.

SAPROPHYTISM
Sap"ro*phyt*ism, n.

Defn: State or fact of being saprophytic.

SAPSAGO
Sap"sa*go, n. Etym: [G. schabzieger; schaben to shave, to scrape +
zieger a sort of hey.]

Defn: A kind of Swiss cheese, of a greenish color, flavored with
melilot.

SAPSKULL
Sap"skull`, n.

Defn: A saphead. [Low]

SAPUCAIA
Sap`u*ca"ia (; Pg. , n. Etym: [Pg. sapucaya.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Brazilian tree. See Lecythis, and Monkey-pot. [Written also
sapucaya.] Sapucaia nut (Bot.), the seed of the sapucaia; -- called
also paradise nut.

SAPWOOD
Sap"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The alburnum, or part of the wood on any exogenous tree next to
the bark, being that portion of the tree through which the sap flows
most freely; -- distinguished from Heartwood.

SARABAITE
Sar"a*bai*te, n. Etym: [LL. Sarabaïtae, pl.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of certain vagrant or heretical Oriental monks in the early
church.

SARABAND
Sar"a*band, n. Etym: [F. sarabande, Sp. zarabanda, fr. Per. serbend a
song.]

Defn: A slow Spanish dance of Saracenic origin, to an air in triple
time; also, the air itself.
She has brought us the newest saraband from the court of Queen Mab.
Sir W. Scott.

SARACEN
Sar"a*cen, n. Etym: [l. Saracenus perhaps fr. Ar. sharqi, pl.
sharqiin, Oriental Eastern, fr. sharaga to rise, said of the sun: cf.
F. sarrasin. Cf. Sarcenet, Sarrasin, Sirocco.]

Defn: Anciently, an Arab; later, a Mussulman; in the Middle Ages, the
common term among Christians in Europe for a Mohammedan hostile to
the crusaders. Saracen's consound (Bot.), a kind of ragewort (Senecio
Saracenicus), anciently used to heal wounds.

SARACENIC; SARACENICAL
Sar`a*cen"ic, Sar`a*cen"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Saracens; as, Saracenic architecture.
"Saracenic music." Sir W. Scott.

SARASIN
Sar"a*sin, n. (Arch.)

Defn: See Sarrasin.

SARASWATI
Sa`ras*wa"ti, n. Etym: [Skr. Sarasvati.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: The sakti or wife of Brahma; the Hindoo goddess of learning,
music, and poetry.

SARCASM
Sar"casm, n. Etym: [F. sarcasme, L. sarcasmu, Gr.

Defn: A keen, reproachful expression; a satirical remark uttered with
some degree of scorn or contempt; a taunt; a gibe; a cutting jest.
The sarcasms of those critics who imagine our art to be a matter of
inspiration. Sir J. Reynolds.

Syn.
 -- Satire; irony; ridicule; taunt; gibe.

SARCASMOUS
Sar*cas"mous, a.

Defn: Sarcastic. [Obs.] "Sarcasmous scandal." Hubidras.

SARCASTIC; SARCASTICAL
Sar*cas"tic, Sar*cas"tic*al, a.

Defn: Expressing, or expressed by, sarcasm; characterized by, or of
the nature of, sarcasm; given to the use of sarcasm; bitterly
satirical; scornfully severe; taunting.
What a fierce and sarcastic reprehension would this have drawn from
the friendship of the world! South.

SARCASTICALLY
Sar*cas"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sarcastic manner.

SARCEL
Sar"cel, n. Etym: [OF. cercel, F. cerceau, L. circellus, dim. of
circulus. See Circle.]

Defn: One of the outer pinions or feathers of the wing of a bird,
esp. of a hawk.

SARCELED
Sar"celed, a. (her.)

Defn: Cut through the middle.

SARCELLE
Sar`celle", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. querquedula.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The old squaw, or long-tailed duck.

SARCENET
Sarce"net, n. Etym: [OF. sacenet; cf. LL. saracenium cloth made by
Saracens. See Saracen.]

Defn: A species of fine thin silk fabric, used for linings, etc.
[Written also sarsenet.]
Thou green sarcenet flap for a sore eye. Shak.

SARCIN
Sar"cin, n.

Defn: Same as Hypoxanthin.

SARCINA
Sar*ci"na, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A genus of bacteria found in various organic fluids, especially
in those those of the stomach, associated with certain diseases. The
individual organisms undergo division along two perpendicular
partitions, so that multiplication takes place in two directions,
giving groups of four cubical cells. Also used adjectively; as, a
sarcina micrococcus; a sarcina group. Sarcina form (Biol.), the
tetrad form seen in the division of a dumb-bell group of micrococci
into four; -- applied particularly to bacteria. See micrococcus.

SARCLE
Sar"cle, v. t. Etym: [F. sarcler to weed, fr. L. sarculare to hoe,
fr. sarculum hoe.]

Defn: To weed, or clear of weeds, with a hoe. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

SARCO; SARCO-
Sar"co.

Defn: A combining form from Gr. flesh; as, sarcophagous, flesh-
eating; sarcology.

SARCOBASIS
Sar*cob"a*sis, n.; pl. Sarcobases. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A fruit consisting of many dry indehiscent cells, which contain
but few seeds and cohere about a common style, as in the mallows.

SARCOBLAST
Sar"co*blast, n. Etym: [Sarco- + -blast.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A minute yellowish body present in the interior of certain
rhizopods.

SARCOCARP
Sar"co*carp, n. Etym: [Sacro- + Gr. sarcocarpe.] (Bot.)

Defn: the fleshy part of a stone fruit, situated between the skin, or
epicarp, and the stone, or endocarp, as in a peach. See Illust. of
Endocarp.

Note: The term has also been used to denote, any fruit which is
fleshy throughout. M. T. Masters.

SARCOCELE
Sar"co*cele, n. Etym: [Gr. sacrocèle.] (Med.)

Defn: Any solid tumor of the testicle.

SARCOCOL; SARCOCOLLA
Sar"co*col, Sar`co*col"la, n. Etym: [L. sarcoccolla, from Gr.
sacrocolle.]

Defn: A gum resin obtained from certain shrubs of Africa (Penæa), --
formerly thought to cause healing of wounds and ulcers.

SARCODE
Sar"code, n. Etym: [Gr. Sarcoid.] (Biol.)

Defn: A name applied by Dujardin in 1835 to the gelatinous material
forming the bodies of the lowest animals; protoplasm.

SARCODERM; SARCODERMA
Sar"co*derm, sar`co*der"ma, n. Etym: [NL. sacroderma. See Sarco-, and
Derm.] (Bot.)
(a) A fleshy covering of a seed, lying between the external and
internal integuments.
(b) A sarcocarp.

SARCODIC
Sar*cod"ic ( or ), a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to sarcode.

SARCOID
Sar"coid, a. Etym: [Gr. Sarcode.] (Biol.)

Defn: Resembling flesh, or muscle; composed of sarcode.

SARCOLACTIC
Sar`co*lac"tic, a. Etym: [Sarco- + lactic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: relating to muscle and milk; as, sarcolactic acid. See Lactic
acid, under Lactic.

SARCOLEMMA
Sar`co*lem"ma, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The very thin transparent and apparently homogenous sheath
which incloses a striated muscular fiber; the myolemma.

SARCOLINE
Sar"co*line, a. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Flesh-colored.

SARCOLOGIC; SARCOLOGICAL
Sar`co*log"ic, Sar`co*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sarcology.

SARCOLOGY
Sar*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Sarco- + -logy: cf. F. sarcologie.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of the soft parts. It
includes myology, angiology, neurology, and splanchnology.

SARCOMA
Sar*co"ma, n.; pl. L. Sarcomata (# or #), E. sarcomas. Etym: [NL.,
from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A tumor of fleshy consistence; -- formerly applied to many
varieties of tumor, now restricted to a variety of malignant growth
made up of cells resembling those of fetal development without any
proper intercellular substance.

SARCOMATOUS
Sar*com"a*tous ( or ), a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to sarcoma; resembling sarcoma.

SARCOPHAGA
Sar*coph"a*ga, n. pl. Etym: [NL., neut. pl. See Sarcophagus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of carnivorous and insectivorous marsupials
including the dasyures and the opossums.

SARCOPHAGA
Sar*coph"a*ga, n. Etym: [NL., frm. sing. See Sarcophagus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Diptera, including the flesh flies.

SARCOPHAGAN
Sar*coph"a*gan, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any animal which eats flesh, especially any carnivorous
marsupial.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any fly of the genus Sarcophaga.

SARCOPHAGOUS
Sar*coph"a*gous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding on flesh; flesh-eating; carnivorous.

SARCOPHAGUS
Sar*coph"a*gus, n.; pl. L. Sarcophagi, E. Sarcophaguses. Etym: [L.,
fr. Gr. Sarcasm.]

1. A species of limestone used among the Greeks for making coffins,
which was so called because it consumed within a few weeks the flesh
of bodies deposited in it. It is otherwise called lapis Assius, or
Assian stone, and is said to have been found at Assos, a city of
Lycia. Holland.

2. A coffin or chest-shaped tomb of the kind of stone described
above; hence, any stone coffin.

3. A stone shaped like a sarcophagus and placed by a grave as a
memorial.

SARCOPHAGY
Sar*coph"a*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. Sarcophagus.]

Defn: The practice of eating flesh.

SARCOPHILE
Sar"co*phile, n. Etym: [Sacro- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A flesh-eating animal, especially any one of the carnivorous
marsupials.

SARCOPTES
Sar*cop"tes, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of parasitic mites including the itch mites.

SARCOPTID
Sar*cop"tid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of the genus Sarcoptes and related genera of mites,
comprising the itch mites and mange mites.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the itch mites.

SARCORHAMPHI
Sar`co*rham"phi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of raptorial birds composing the vultures.

SARCOSEPTUM
Sar`co*sep"tum, n.; pl. Sarcosepta. Etym: [Sarco- + septum.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the mesenteries of an anthozoan.

SARCOSIN
Sar"co*sin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline nitrogenous substance, formed in the
decomposition of creatin (one of the constituents of muscle tissue).
Chemically, it is methyl glycocoll.

SARCOSIS
Sar*co"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) Abnormal formation of flesh.
(b) Sarcoma.

SARCOTIC
Sar*cot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. sarcotique.] (Med.)

Defn: Producing or promoting the growth of flesh. [R.] -- n.

Defn: A sarcotic medicine. [R.]

SARCOUS
Sar"cous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Fleshy; -- applied to the minute stryctural elements, called
sarcous elements, or sarcous disks, of which striated muscular fiber
is composed.

SARCULATION
Sar`cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. sarculatio. See Sarcle.]

Defn: A weeding, as with a hoe or a rake.

SARD
Sard, n. Etym: [L. sarda, Gr. sarde. Cf. Sardius.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of carnelian, of a rich reddish yellow or brownish
red color. See the Note under Chalcedony.

SARDACHATE
Sar"da*chate, n. Etym: [L. sardachates: cf. F. Sardachate. See Sard,
and Agate.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of agate containing sard.

SARDAN; SARDEL
Sar"dan, Sar"del, n. Etym: [It. sardella. See Sardine a fish.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A sardine. [Obs.]

SARDEL
Sar"del, n.

Defn: A precious stone. See Sardius.

SARDINE
Sar"dine ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [F. sardine (cf. Sp. sardina, sarda,
It. sardina, sardella), L. sardina, sarda; cf. Gr. sardinia, Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several small species of herring which are commonly
preserved in olive oil for food, especially the pilchard, or European
sardine (Clupea pichardus). The California sardine (Clupea sagax) is
similar. The American sardines of the Atlantic coast are mostly the
young of the common herring and of the menhaden.

SARDINE
Sar"dine ( or ; 277), n.

Defn: See Sardius.

SARDINIAN
Sar*din"i*an, a. Etym: [L. Sardinianus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the island, kingdom, or people of Sardinia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Sardinia.

SARDIUS
Sar"di*us, n. Etym: [L. sardius, lapis sardinus, Gr. Sard.]

Defn: A precious stone, probably a carnelian, one of which was set in
Aaron's breastplate. Ex. xxviii. 17.

SARDOIN
Sar"doin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sardoine.] (Min.)

Defn: Sard; carnelian.

SARDONIAN
Sar*do"ni*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sardonien.]

Defn: Sardonic. [Obs.] "With Sardonian smile." Spenser.

SARDONIC
Sar*don"ic, a. Etym: [F. sardonique, L. sardonius, Gr. Sardinia, Gr.

Defn: Forced; unnatural; insincere; hence, derisive, mocking,
malignant, or bitterly sarcastic; -- applied only to a laugh, smile,
or some facial semblance of gayety.
Where strained, sardonic smiles are glozing still, And grief is
forced to laugh against her will. Sir H. Wotton.
The scornful, ferocious, sardonic grin of a bloody ruffian. Burke.
Sardonic grin or laugh, an old medical term for a spasmodic affection
of the muscles of the face, giving it an appearance of laughter.

SARDONIC
Sar*don"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a kind of linen made at
Colchis.

SARDONYX
Sar"do*nyx, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Sard, and Onyx.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of onyx consisting of sard and white chalcedony in
alternate layers.

SAREE
Sa"ree, n. Etym: [Hind.

Defn: The principal garment of a Hindoo woman. It consists of a long
piece of cloth, which is wrapped round the middle of the body, a
portion being arranged to hang down in front, and the remainder
passed across the bosom over the left shoulder.

SARGASSO
Sar*gas"so, n. Etym: [Sp. sargazo seaweed.] (Bot.)

Defn: The gulf weed. See under Gulf. Sargasso Sea, a large tract of
the North Atlantic Ocean where sargasso in great abundance floats on
the surface.

SARGASSUM
Sar*gas"sum, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A genus of algæ including the gulf weed.

SARGO
Sar"go, n. Etym: [Sp. sargo, L. sargus a kind of fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of sparoid fishes belonging to
Sargus, Pomodasys, and related genera; -- called also sar, and
saragu.

SARI
Sa"ri, n.

Defn: Same as Saree.

SARIGUE
Sa*rigue", n. Etym: [F., from Braz. çarigueia, çarigueira.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small South American opossum (Didelphys opossum), having four
white spots on the face.

SARK
Sark, n. Etym: [AS. serce, syrce, ashirt; akin to Icel. serkr, Sw.
särk.]

Defn: A shirt. [Scot.]