

STRATEGICS
Stra*te"gics, n.

Defn: Strategy.

STRATEGIST
Strat"e*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stratégiste.]

Defn: One skilled in strategy, or the science of directing great
military movements.

STRATEGUS
Stra*te"gus, n.; pl. Strategi. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Stratagem.] (Gr.
Antiq.)

Defn: The leader or commander of an army; a general.

STRATEGY
Strat"e*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. stratégie. See Stratagem.]

1. The science of military command, or the science of projecting
campaigns and directing great military movements; generalship.

2. The use of stratagem or artifice.

STRATH
Strath, n. Etym: [Gael. srath.]

Defn: A valley of considerable size, through which a river runs; a
valley bottom; -- often used in composition with the name of the
river; as, Strath Spey, Strathdon, Strathmore. [Scot.]
The long green strath of Napa valley. R. L. Stevenson.

STRATHSPEY
Strath"spey`, n. Etym: [So called from the district of Strath Spey in
Scotland.]

Defn: A lively Scottish dance, resembling the reel, but slower; also,
the tune.

STRATICULATE
Stra*tic"u*late, a. Etym: [Dim. Fr. stratum.] (Min.)

Defn: Characterized by the presence of thin parallel strata, or
layers, as in an agate.

STRATIFICATION
Strat`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stratification.]

1. The act or process of laying in strata, or the state of being laid
in the form of strata, or layers.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The deposition of material in successive layers in the growth
of a cell wall, thus giving rise to a stratified appearance.

STRATIFIED
Strat"i*fied, a.

Defn: Having its substance arranged in strata, or layers; as,
stratified rock.

STRATIFORM
Strat"i*form, a.

Defn: Having the form of strata.

STRATIFY
Strat"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stratified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stratifying.] Etym: [Stratum + -fy: cf. F. stratifier.]

Defn: To form or deposit in strata, or layers, as substances in the
earth; to arrange in strata.

STRATIGRAPHIC; STRATIGRAPHICAL
Strat`i*graph"ic, Strat`i*graph"ic*al, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or depended upon, the order or arrangement of
strata; as, stratigraphical evidence.
 -- Strat`i*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

STRATIGRAPHIC; STRATIGRAPHICAL
Strat`i*graph"ic, -ic*al, a. (Mil.)

Defn: See Stratographic.

STRATIGRAPHY
Stra*tig"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Stratum + -graphy.]

Defn: That branch of geology which treats of the arrangement and
succession of strata.

STRATO-CIRRUS
Stra`to-cir"rus, n.  [Stratus + cirrus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: An alto-stratus cloud.

STRATOCRACY
Stra*toc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -cracy, as in democracy: cf. F.
stratocratie.]

Defn: A military government; government by military chiefs and an
army.

STRATO-CUMULUS
Stra`to-cu"mu*lus, n. [Stratus + cumulus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: Large balls or rolls of dark cloud which frequently cover the
whole sky, esp. in winter, and give it at times an undulated
appearance.

STRATOGRAPHIC; STRATOGRAPHICAL
Strat`o*graph"ic, Strat`o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to stratography.

STRATOGRAPHY
Stra*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of an army, or of what belongs to an army.

STRATONIC
Stra*ton"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an army. [R.]

STRATOTIC
Stra*tot"ic, a.

Defn: Warlike; military. [R.]

STRATUM
Stra"tum, n.; pl. E. Stratums, L. Strata. The latter is more common.
Etym: [L., from sternere, stratum, to spread; akin to Gr. Strew, and
cf. Consternation, Estrade, Prostrate, Stratus, Street.]

1. (Geol.)

Defn: A bed of earth or rock of one kind, formed by natural causes,
and consisting usually of a series of layers, which form a rock as it
lies between beds of other kinds. Also used figuratively.

2. A bed or layer artificially made; a course.

STRATUS
Stra"tus, n. Etym: [L. stratus a spreading out, scattering, from
sternere, stratum, to spread.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A form of clouds in which they are arranged in a horizontal
band or layer. See Cloud.

STRAUGHT
Straught, obs.

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Stretch.

STRAUGHT
Straught, v. t.

Defn: To stretch; to make straight. [Written also straucht.] [Scot.]
Sir W. Scott.

STRAW
Straw, v. t.

Defn: To spread or scatter. See Strew, and Strow. Chaucer.

STRAW
Straw, n. Etym: [OE. straw, stre, stree, AS. streáw, from the root of
E. strew; akin to OFries. stre, D. stroo, G. stroh, OHG. stro, Icel.
stra, Dan. straa, Sw. strå. *166. See Strew.]

1. A stalk or stem of certain species of grain, pulse, etc.,
especially of wheat, rye, oats, barley, more rarely of buckwheat,
beans, and pease.

2. The gathered and thrashed stalks of certain species of grain,
etc.; as, a bundle, or a load, of rye straw.

3. Anything proverbially worthless; the least possible thing; a mere
trifle.
I set not a straw by thy dreamings. Chaucer.

Note: Straw is often used in the formation of self-explaining
compounds; as, straw-built, straw-crowned, straw-roofed, straw-
stuffed, and the like. Man of straw, an effigy formed by stuffing the
garments of a man with straw; hence, a fictitious person; an
irresponsible person; a puppet.set up a straw man; -- used in
disputation. Typically, one party accuses an opponent of setting up a
straw man, meaning that the opponent is distorting his true opinion
in order to make it look absurd.
 -- Straw bail, worthless bail, as being given by irresponsible
persons. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Straw bid, a worthless bid; a bid for a
contract which the bidder is unable or unwilling to fulfill. [Colloq.
U.S.] -- Straw cat (Zoöl.), the pampas cat.
 -- Straw color, the color of dry straw, being a delicate yellow.
 -- Straw drain, a drain filled with straw.
 -- Straw plait, or Straw plat, a strip formed by plaiting straws,
used for making hats, bonnets, etc.
 -- To be in the straw, to be brought to bed, as a pregnant woman.
[Slang]

STRAWBERRY
Straw"ber*ry, n. Etym: [AS. streáwberige; streáw straw + berie berry;
perhaps from the resemblance of the runners of the plant to straws.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A fragrant edible berry, of a delicious taste and commonly of a
red color, the fruit of a plant of the genus Fragaria, of which there
are many varieties. Also, the plant bearing the fruit. The common
American strawberry is Fragaria virginiana; the European, F. vesca.
There are also other less common species. Strawberry bass. (Zoöl.)
See Calico bass, under Calico.
 -- Strawberry blite. (Bot.) See under Blite.
 -- Strawberry borer (Zoöl.), any one of several species of insects
whose larvæ burrow in the crown or roots of the strawberry vine.
Especially: (a) The root borer (Anarsia lineatella), a very small
dark gray moth whose larvæ burrow both in the larger roots and crown,
often doing great damage. (b) The crown borer (Tyloderma fragariæ), a
small brown weevil whose larva burrows in the crown and kills the
plant.
 -- Strawberry bush (Bot.), an American shrub (Euonymus Americanus),
a kind of spindle tree having crimson pods and the seeds covered with
a scarlet aril.
 -- Strawberry crab (Zoöl.), a small European spider crab (Eurynome
aspera); -- so called because the back is covered with pink
tubercles.
 -- Strawberry fish (Zoöl.), the amadavat.
 -- Strawberry geranium (Bot.), a kind of saxifrage (Saxifraga
sarmentosa) having reniform leaves, and producing long runners like
those of the strawberry.
 -- Strawberry leaf. (a) The leaf of the strawberry. (b) The symbol
of the rank or estate of a duke, because the ducal coronet is twined
with strawberry leaves. "The strawberry leaves on her chariot panels
are engraved on her ladyship's heart." Thackeray.
 -- Strawberry-leaf roller (Zoöl.), any one of several species of
moths whose larvæ roll up, and feed upon, the leaves of the
strawberry vine; especially, Phoxopteris fragariæ, and Eccopsis
permundana.
 -- Strawberry moth (Zoöl.), any one of several species of moth whose
larvæ feed on the strawberry vines; as: (a) The smeared dagger
(Apatela oblinita), whose large hairy larva is velvety black with two
rows of bright yellow spots on each side. (b) A geometrid (Angerona
crocataria) which is yellow with dusky spots on the wings. Called
also currant moth.
 -- Strawberry pear (Bot.), the red ovoid fruit of a West Indian
plant of the genus Cereus (C. triangularia). It has a sweetish
flavor, and is slightly acid, pleasant, and cooling. Also, the plant
bearing the fruit.
 -- Strawberry sawfly (Zoöl.), a small black sawfly (Emphytus
maculatus) whose larva eats the leaves of the strawberry vine.
 -- Strawberry tomato. (Bot.) See Alkekengi.
 -- Strawberry tree. (Bot.) See Arbutus.
 -- Strawberry vine (Bot.), the plant which yields the strawberry.
 -- Strawberry worm (Zoöl.), the larva of any moth which feeds on the
strawberry vine.

STRAWBOARD
Straw"board`, n.

Defn: Pasteboard made of pulp of straw.

STRAW-COLORED
Straw"-col`ored, a.

Defn: Being of a straw color. See Straw color, under Straw, n.

STRAW-CUTTER
Straw"-cut`ter, n.

Defn: An instrument to cut straw for fodder.

STRAWED
Strawed,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Straw. [Obs.]

STRAWWORM
Straw"worm`, n.

Defn: A caddice worm.

STRAWY
Straw"y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to straw; made of, or resembling, straw. Shak.

STRAY
Stray, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Strayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Straying.] Etym:
[OF. estraier, estraer, to stray, or as adj., stray, fr. (assumed) L.
stratarius roving the streets, fr. L. strata (sc. via) a paved road.
See Street, and Stray, a.]

1. To wander, as from a direct course; to deviate, or go out of the
way.
Thames among the wanton valleys strays. Denham.

2. To wander from company, or from the proper limits; to rove at
large; to roam; to go astray.
Now, until the break of day, Through this house each fairy stray.
Shak.
A sheep doth very often stray. Shak.

3. Figuratively, to wander from the path of duty or rectitude; to
err.
We have erred and strayed from thy ways.
While meaner things, whom instinct leads, Are rarely known to stray.
Cowper.

Syn.
 -- To deviate; err; swerve; rove; roam; wander.

STRAY
Stray, v. t.

Defn: To cause to stray. [Obs.] Shak.

STRAY
Stray, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. estraié, p.p. of estraier. See Stray, v. i.,
and cf. Astray, Estray.]

Defn: Having gone astray; strayed; wandering; as, a strayhorse or
sheep. Stray line (Naut.), that portion of the log line which is
veered from the reel to allow the chip to get clear of the stern
eddies before the glass is turned.
 -- Stray mark (Naut.), the mark indicating the end of the stray
line.

STRAY
Stray, n.

1. Any domestic animal that has an inclosure, or its proper place and
company, and wanders at large, or is lost; an estray. Used also
figuratively.
Seeing him wander about, I took him up for a stray. Dryden.

2. The act of wandering or going astray. [R.] Shak.

STRAYER
Stray"er, n.

Defn: One who strays; a wanderer.

STRE
Stre, n.

Defn: Straw. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STREAK
Streak, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Stretch, Streek.]

Defn: To stretch; to extend; hence, to lay out, as a dead body. [Obs.
or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

STREAK
Streak, n. Etym: [OE. streke; akin to D. streek a line, stroke, G.
strich, AS. strica, Sw. strek, Dan. streg, Goth. stricks, and E.
strike, stroke. See Strike, Stroke, n., and cf. Strake.]

1. A line or long mark of a different color from the ground; a
stripe; a vein.
What mean those colored streaks in heaven Milton.

2. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A strake.

3. (Min.)

Defn: The fine powder or mark yielded by a mineral when scratched or
rubbed against a harder surface, the color of which is sometimes a
distinguishing character.

4. The rung or round of a ladder. [Obs.]

STREAK
Streak, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Streaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Streaking.]

1. To form streaks or stripes in or on; to stripe; to variegate with
lines of a different color, or of different colors.
A mule . . . streaked and dappled with white and black. Sandys.
Now streaked and glowing with the morning red. Prior.

2. With it as an object: To run swiftly. [Colloq.]

STREAKED
Streaked, a.

1. Marked or variegated with stripes.

2. Uncomfortable; out of sorts. [Local, U.S.]

STREAKY
Streak"y, a.

Defn: Same as Streaked, 1. "The streaky west." Cowper.

STREAM
Stream, n. Etym: [AS. streám; akin to OFries. stram, OS. strom, D.
stroom, G. strom, OHG. stroum, str, Dan. & Sw. ström, Icel. straumr,
Ir. sroth, Lith. srove, Russ. struia, Gr. sru. *174. Cf. Catarrh,
Diarrhea, Rheum, Rhythm.]

1. A current water or other fluid; a liquid flowing continuously in a
line or course, either on the earth, as a river, brook, etc., or from
a vessel, reservoir, or fountain; specifically, any course of running
water; as, many streams are blended in the Mississippi; gas and steam
came from the earth in streams; a stream of molten lead from a
furnace; a stream of lava from a volcano.

2. A beam or ray of light. "Sun streams." Chaucer.

3. Anything issuing or moving with continued succession of parts; as,
a stream of words; a stream of sand. "The stream of beneficence."
Atterbury. "The stream of emigration." Macaulay.

4. A continued current or course; as, a stream of weather. "The very
stream of his life." Shak.

5. Current; drift; tendency; series of tending or moving causes; as,
the stream of opinions or manners. Gulf stream. See under Gulf.
 -- Stream anchor, Stream cable. (Naut.) See under Anchor, and Cable.
 -- Stream ice, blocks of ice floating in a mass together in some
definite direction.
 -- Stream tin, particles or masses of tin ore found in alluvial
ground; -- so called because a stream of water is the principal agent
used in separating the ore from the sand and gravel.
 -- Stream works (Cornish Mining), a place where an alluvial deposit
of tin ore is worked. Ure.
 -- To float with the stream, figuratively, to drift with the current
of opinion, custom, etc., so as not to oppose or check it.

Syn.
 -- Current; flow; rush; tide; course.
 -- Stream, Current. These words are often properly interchangeable;
but stream is the broader word, denoting a prevailing onward course.
The stream of the Mississippi rolls steadily on to the Gulf of
Mexico, but there are reflex currents in it which run for a while in
a contrary direction.

STREAM
Stream, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Streamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Streaming.]

1. To issue or flow in a stream; to flow freely or in a current, as a
fluid or whatever is likened to fluids; as, tears streamed from her
eyes.
Beneath those banks where rivers stream. Milton.

2. To pour out, or emit, a stream or streams.
A thousand suns will stream on thee. Tennyson.

3. To issue in a stream of light; to radiate.

4. To extend; to stretch out with a wavy motion; to float in the
wind; as, a flag streams in the wind.

STREAM
Stream, v. t.

Defn: To send forth in a current or stream; to cause to flow; to
pour; as, his eyes streamed tears.
It may so please that she at length will stream Some dew of grace
into my withered heart. Spenser.

2. To mark with colors or embroidery in long tracts.
The herald's mantle is streamed with gold. Bacon.

3. To unfurl. Shak. To stream the buoy. (Naut.) See under Buoy.

STREAM CLOCK
Stream clock. (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the velocity of the blood in a
vessel.

STREAMER
Stream"er, n.

1. An ensign, flag, or pennant, which floats in the wind;
specifically, a long, narrow, ribbonlike flag.
Brave Rupert from afar appears, Whose waving streamers the glad
general knows. Dryden.

3. A stream or column of light shooting upward from the horizon,
constituting one of the forms of the aurora borealis. Macaulay.
While overhead the North's dumb streamers shoot. Lowell.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A searcher for stream tin.

STREAMFUL
Stream"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding in streams, or in water. "The streamful tide."
Drayton.

STREAM GOLD
Stream gold. (Mining)

Defn: Gold in alluvial deposits; placer gold.

STREAMINESS
Stream"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being streamy; a trailing. R. A. Proctor.

STREAMING
Stream"ing, a.

Defn: Sending forth streams.

STREAMING
Stream"ing, n.

1. The act or operation of that which streams; the act of that which
sends forth, or which runs in, streams.

2. (Mining)

Defn: The reduction of stream tin; also, the search for stream tin.

STREAMLESS
Stream"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of streams, or of a stream, as a region of country,
or a dry channel.

STREAMLET
Stream"let, n.

Defn: A small stream; a rivulet; a rill.

STREAM LINE
Stream line.

Defn: The path of a constituent particle of a flowing fluid
undisturbed by eddies or the like.

STREAMLINE
Stream"line`, a.

Defn: Of or pert. to a stream line; designating a motion or flow that
is free from turbulence, like that of a particle in a streamline;
hence, designating a surface, body, etc., that is designed so as to
afford an unbroken flow of a fluid about it, esp. when the resistance
to flow is the least possible; as, a streamline body for an
automobile or airship.

STREAM WHEEL
Stream wheel.

Defn: A wheel used for measuring, by its motion when submerged, the
velocity of flowing water; a current wheel.

STREAMY
Stream"y, a.

1. Abounding with streams, or with running water; streamful.
Arcadia However streamy now, adust and dry, Denied the goddess water.
Prior.

2. Resembling a stream; issuing in a stream.
His nodding helm emits a streamy ray. Pope.

STREE
Stree, n.

Defn: Straw. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STREEK
Streek, v. t.

Defn: To stretch; also, to lay out, as a dead body. See Streak. [Obs.
or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

STREEL
Streel, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Stroll.]

Defn: To trail along; to saunter or be drawn along, carelessly,
swaying in a kind of zigzag motion. [Colloq.] Thackeray.

STREEN
Streen, n.

Defn: See Strene. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STREET
Street, n. Etym: [OE. strete, AS. str, fr. L. strata (sc. via) a
paved way, properly fem. p.p. of sternere, stratum, to spread; akin
to E. strew. See Strew, and cf. Stratum, Stray, v. & a.]

Defn: Originally, a paved way or road; a public highway; now
commonly, a thoroughfare in a city or village, bordered by dwellings
or business houses.
He removed [the body of] Amasa from the street unto the field.
Coverdale.
At home or through the high street passing. Milton.

Note: In an extended sense, street designates besides the roadway,
the walks, houses, shops, etc., which border the thoroughfare.
His deserted mansion in Duke Street. Macaulay.
The street (Broker's Cant), that thoroughfare of a city where the
leading bankers and brokers do business; also, figuratively, those
who do business there; as, the street would not take the bonds.
 -- Street Arab, Street broker, etc. See under Arab, Broker, etc.
 -- Street door, a door which opens upon a street, or is nearest the
street.

Syn.
 -- See Way.

STREETWALKER
Street"walk`er, n.

Defn: A common prostitute who walks the streets to find customers.

STREETWARD
Street"ward`, n.

Defn: An officer, or ward, having the care of the streets. [Obs.]
Cowell.

STREETWARD
Street"ward, a.

Defn: Facing toward the street.
Their little streetward sitting room. Tennyson.

STREIGHT
Streight, a., n., & adv.

Defn: See 2nd Strait. [Obs.]

STREIGHTEN
Streight"en, v. t.

Defn: See Straiten. [Obs.]

STREIN
Strein, v. t.

Defn: To strain. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STREIT
Streit, a. Etym: [See Stretch.]

Defn: Drawn. [Obs.]
Pyrrhus with his streite sword. Chaucer.

STREIT
Streit, a.

Defn: Close; narrow; strict. [Obs.] See Strait.

STREITE
Streite, adv.

Defn: Narrowly; strictly; straitly. [Obs.]

STRELITZ
Strel"itz, n.sing. & pl. Etym: [Russ. strieliéts' a shooter, archer.]

Defn: A soldier of the ancient Muscovite guard or Russian standing
army; also, the guard itself.

STRELITZIA
Stre*litz"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., named after Charlotte, Princess of
Mecklenburg-Strelitz, and queen of George III of Great Britain.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants related to the banana, found at the Cape of
Good Hope. They have rigid glaucous distichous leaves, and peculiar
richly colored flowers.

STRENE
Strene, n. Etym: [OE. stren, streen, streon, AS. gestriénan, gestr,
gestreónan, to beget, to obtain, gestreón gain, wealth; akin to OHG.
striunan to gain. Cf. Strian race, family.]

Defn: Race; offspring; stock; breed; strain. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STRENGER; STRENGEST
Stren"ger, Stren"gest

Defn: , the original compar. & superl. of Strong. [Obs.]
Two of us shall strenger be than one. Chaucer.

STRENGTH
Strength, n. Etym: [OE. strengthe, AS. streng, fr. strang strong. See
Strong.]

1. The quality or state of being strong; ability to do or to bear;
capacity for exertion or endurance, whether physical, intellectual,
or moral; force; vigor; power; as, strength of body or of the arm;
strength of mind, of memory, or of judgment.
All his [Samson's] strength in his hairs were. Chaucer.
Thou must outlive Thy youth, thy strength, thy beauty. Milton.

2. Power to resist force; solidity or toughness; the quality of
bodies by which they endure the application of force without breaking
or yielding; -- in this sense opposed to frangibility; as, the
strength of a bone, of a beam, of a wall, a rope, and the like. "The
brittle strength of bones." Milton.

3. Power of resisting attacks; impregnability. "Our castle's strength
will laugh a siege to scorn." Shak.

4. That quality which tends to secure results; effective power in an
institution or enactment; security; validity; legal or moral force;
logical conclusiveness; as, the strength of social or legal
obligations; the strength of law; the strength of public opinion;
strength of evidence; strength of argument.

5. One who, or that which, is regarded as embodying or affording
force, strength, or firmness; that on which confidence or reliance is
based; support; security.
God is our refuge and strength. Ps. xlvi. 1.
What they boded would be a mischief to us, you are providing shall be
one of our principal strengths. Sprat.
Certainly there is not a greater strength against temptation. Jer.
Taylor.

6. Force as measured; amount, numbers, or power of any body, as of an
army, a navy, and the like; as, what is the strength of the enemy by
land, or by sea

7. Vigor or style; force of expression; nervous diction; -- said of
literary work.
And praise the easy vigor of a life Where Denham's strength and
Waller's sweetness join. Pope.

8. Intensity; -- said of light or color.
Bright Phoebus in his strength. Shak.

9. Intensity or degree of the distinguishing and essential element;
spirit; virtue; excellence; -- said of liquors, solutions, etc.; as,
the strength of wine or of acids.

10. A strong place; a stronghold. [Obs.] Shak. On, or Upon, the
strength of, in reliance upon. "The allies, after a successful
summer, are too apt, upon the strength of it, to neglect their
preparations for the ensuing campaign." Addison.

Syn.
 -- Force; robustness; toughness; hardness; stoutness; brawniness;
lustiness; firmness; puissance; support; spirit; validity; authority.
See Force.

STRENGTH
Strength, v. t.

Defn: To strengthen. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STRENGTHEN
Strength"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strengthened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Strengthening.]

1. To make strong or stronger; to add strength to; as, to strengthen
a limb, a bridge, an army; to strengthen an obligation; to strengthen
authority.
Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest, . . . With powerful policy
strengthen themselves. Shak.

2. To animate; to encourage; to fix in resolution.
Charge Joshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him. Deut. iii. 28.

Syn.
 -- To invigorate; confirm; establish; fortify; animate; encourage.

STRENGTHEN
Strength"en, v. i.

Defn: To grow strong or stronger.
The young disease, that must subdue at length, Grows with his growth,
and strengthens with his strength. Pope.

STRENGTHENER
Strength"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, gives or adds strength. Sir W. Temple.

STRENGTHENING
Strength"en*ing, a.

Defn: That strengthens; giving or increasing strength.
 -- Strength"en*ing*ly, adv. Strengthening plaster (Med.), a plaster
containing iron, and supposed to have tonic effects.

STRENGTHFUL
Strength"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding in strength; full of strength; strong.
 -- Strength"ful*ness, n.
Florence my friend, in court my faction Not meanly strengthful.
Marston.

STRENGTHING
Strength"ing, n.

Defn: A stronghold. [Obs.]

STRENGTHLESS
Strength"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of strength. Boyle.

STRENGTHNER
Strength"ner, n.

Defn: See Strengthener.

STRENGTHY
Strength"y, a.

Defn: Having strength; strong. [Obs.]

STRENUITY
Stre*nu"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. strenuatis.]

Defn: Strenuousness; activity. [Obs.] Chapman.

STRENUOUS
Stren"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. strenuus; cf. Gr.

Defn: Eagerly pressing or urgent; zealous; ardent; earnest; bold;
valiant; intrepid; as, a strenuous advocate for national rights; a
strenuous reformer; a strenuous defender of his country.
And spirit-stirring wine, that strenuous makes. Chapman.
Strenuous, continuous labor is pain. I. Taylor.
-- Stren"u*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Stren"u*ous*ness, n.

STREPENT
Strep"ent, a. Etym: [L. strepens, p.pr. of strepere to make a noise.]

Defn: Noisy; loud. [R.] Shenstone.

STREPEROUS
Strep"er*ous, a. Etym: [LL. streperus, fr. L. strepere. See Strepent,
and cf. Obstreperous.]

Defn: Loud; boisterous. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

STREPITORES
Strep`i*to"res, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. strepitus clamor.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of birds, including the clamatorial and picarian
birds, which do not have well developed singing organs.

STREPSIPTER; STREPSIPTERAN
Strep*sip"ter, Strep*sip"ter*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Strepsiptera.

STREPSIPTERA
Strep*sip"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of small insects having the anterior wings rudimentary,
and in the form of short and slender twisted appendages, while the
posterior ones are large and membranous. They are parasitic in the
larval state on bees, wasps, and the like; -- called also Rhipiptera.
See Illust. under Rhipipter.

STREPSIPTEROUS
Strep*sip"ter*ous, a. Etym: [See Strepsiptera.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Strepsiptera.

STREPSORHINA
Strep`so*rhi"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Lemuroidea.

STREPSORHINE
Strep"so*rhine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having twisted nostrils; -- said of the lemurs.
 -- n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Strepsorhina; a lemur. See Illust. under Monkey.

STREPTOBACTERIA
Strep`to*bac*te"ri*a, n. pl.; sing. Streptobracterium (. Etym: [NL.,
fr. Gr. bacteria.] (Biol.)

Defn: A so-called variety of bacterium, consisting in reality of
several bacteria linked together in the form of a chain.

STREPTOCOCCUS
Strep`to*coc"cus, n.; pl. Streptococci. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A long or short chain of micrococci, more or less curved.

STREPTONEURA
Strep`to*neu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive division of gastropod Mollusca in which the loop
or visceral nerves is twisted, and the sexes separate. It is nearly
to equivalent to Prosobranchiata.

STREPTOTHRIX
Strep"to*thrix, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A genus of bacilli occurring of the form of long, smooth and
apparently branched threads, either straight or twisted.

STRESS
Stress, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. distress; or cf. OF. estrecier to
press, pinch, (assumed) LL. strictiare, fr. L. strictus. See
Distress.]

1. Distress. [Obs.]
Sad hersal of his heavy stress. Spenser.

2. Pressure, strain; -- used chiefly of immaterial things; except in
mechanics; hence, urgency; importance; weight; significance.
The faculties of the mind are improved by exercise, yet they must not
be put to a stress beyond their strength. Locke.
A body may as well lay too little as too much stress upon a dream.
L'Estrange.

3. (Mech. & Physics)

Defn: The force, or combination of forces, which produces a strain;
force exerted in any direction or manner between contiguous bodies,
or parts of bodies, and taking specific names according to its
direction, or mode of action, as thrust or pressure, pull or tension,
shear or tangential stress. Rankine.
Stress is the mutual action between portions of matter. Clerk
Maxwell.

4. (Pron.)

Defn: Force of utterance expended upon words or syllables. Stress is
in English the chief element in accent and is one of the most
important in emphasis. See Guide to pronunciation, §§ 31-35.

5. (Scots Law)

Defn: Distress; the act of distraining; also, the thing distrained.
Stress of voice, unusual exertion of the voice.
 -- Stress of weather, constraint imposed by continued bad weather;
as, to be driven back to port by stress of weather.
 -- To lay stress upon, to attach great importance to; to emphasize.
"Consider how great a stress is laid upon this duty." Atterbury.
 -- To put stress upon, or To put to a stress, to strain.

STRESS
Stress, v. t.

1. To press; to urge; to distress; to put to difficulties. [R.]
Spenser.

2. To subject to stress, pressure, or strain.

STRESSFUL
Stress"ful, a.

Defn: Having much stress. Rush.

STRETCH
Stretch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stretched; p. pr. & vb. n. Stretching.]
Etym: [OE. strecchen, AS. streccan; akin to D. strekken, G. strecken,
OHG. strecchen, Sw. sträcka, Dan. strække; cf. AS. stræck, strec,
strong, violent, G. strack straight; of uncertain origin, perhaps
akin to E. strong. Cf. Straight.]

1. To reach out; to extend; to put forth.
And stretch forth his neck long and small. Chaucer.
I in conquest stretched mine arm. Shak.

2. To draw out to the full length; to cause to extend in a straight
line; as, to stretch a cord or rope.

3. To cause to extend in breadth; to spread; to expand; as, to
stretch cloth; to stretch the wings.

4. To make tense; to tighten; to distend forcibly.
The ox hath therefore stretched his yoke in vain. Shak.

5. To draw or pull out to greater length; to strain; as, to stretch a
tendon or muscle.
Awake, my soul, stretch every nerve. Doddridge.

6. To exaggerate; to extend too far; as, to stretch the truth; to
stretch one's credit.
They take up, one day, the most violent and stretched prerogative.
Burke.

STRETCH
Stretch, v. i.

1. To be extended; to be drawn out in length or in breadth, or both;
to spread; to reach; as, the iron road stretches across the
continent; the lake stretches over fifty square miles.
As far as stretcheth any ground. Gower.

2. To extend or spread one's self, or one's limbs; as, the lazy man
yawns and stretches.

3. To be extended, or to bear extension, without breaking, as elastic
or ductile substances.
The inner membrane . . . because it would stretch and yield, remained
umbroken. Boyle.

4. To strain the truth; to exaggerate; as, a man apt to stretch in
his report of facts. [Obs. or Colloq.]

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To sail by the wind under press of canvas; as, the ship
stretched to the eastward. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Stretch out, an order to
rowers to extend themselves forward in dipping the oar.

STRETCH
Stretch, n.

1. Act of stretching, or state of being stretched; reach; effort;
struggle; strain; as, a stretch of the limbs; a stretch of the
imagination.
By stretch of arms the distant shore to gain. Dryden.
Those put a lawful authority upon the stretch, to the abuse of yower,
under the color of prerogative. L'Estrange.

2. A continuous line or surface; a continuous space of time; as,
grassy stretches of land.
A great stretch of cultivated country. W. Black.
But all of them left me a week at a stretch. E. Eggleston.

3. The extent to which anything may be stretched.
Quotations, in their utmost stretch, can signify no more than that
Luther lay under severe agonies of mind. Atterbury.
This is the utmost stretch that nature can. Granville.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: The reach or extent of a vessel's progress on one tack; a tack
or board.

5. Course; direction; as, the stretch of seams of coal. To be on the
stretch, to be obliged to use one's utmost powers.
 -- Home stretch. See under Home, a.

STRETCHER
Stretch"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, stretches.

2. (Masonry)

Defn: A brick or stone laid with its longer dimension in the line of
direction of the wall. Gwilt.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A piece of timber used in building.

4. (Naut.)
(a) A narrow crosspiece of the bottom of a boat against which a rower
braces his feet.
(b) A crosspiece placed between the sides of a boat to keep them
apart when hoisted up and griped. Dana.

5. A litter, or frame, for carrying disabled, wounded, or dead
persons.

6. An overstretching of the truth; a lie. [Slang]

7. One of the rods in an umbrella, attached at one end to one of the
ribs, and at the other to the tube sliding upon the handle.

8. An instrument for stretching boots or gloves.

9. The frame upon which canvas is stretched for a painting.

STRETCHING
Stretch"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Stretch, v. Stretching course (Masonry), a course or
series of stretchers. See Stretcher, 2. Britton.

STRETTO
Stret"to, n. Etym: [It., close or contacted, pressed.] (Mus.)
(a) The crowding of answer upon subject near the end of a fugue.
(b) In an opera or oratorio, a coda, or winding up, in an accelerated
time. [Written also stretta.]

STREW
Strew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strewed; p. p. strewn; p. pr. & vb. n.
Strewing.] Etym: [OE. strewen, strawen, AS. strewian, streówian; akin
to Ofries. strewa, OS. strewian, D. strooijen, G. streuen, OHG.
strewen, Icel. stra, Sw. strö, Dan. ströe, Goth. straujan, L.
sternere, stratum, Gr. st. *166. Cf. Stratum, Straw, Street.]

1. To scatter; to spread by scattering; to cast or to throw loosely
apart; -- used of solids, separated or separable into parts or
particles; as, to strew seed in beds; to strew sand on or over a
floor; to strew flowers over a grave.
And strewed his mangled limbs about the field. Dryden.
On a principal table a desk was open and many papers [were] strewn
about. Beaconsfield.

2. To cover more or less thickly by scattering something over or
upon; to cover, or lie upon, by having been scattered; as, they
strewed the ground with leaves; leaves strewed the ground.
The snow which does the top of Pindus strew. Spenser.
Is thine alone the seed that strews the plain Pope.

3. To spread abroad; to disseminate.
She may strew dangerous conjectures. Shak.

STREWING
Strew"ing, n.

1. The act of scattering or spreading.

2. Anything that is, or may be, strewed; -- used chiefly in the
plural. Shak.

STREWMENT
Strew"ment, n.

Defn: Anything scattered, as flowers for decoration. [Obs.] Shak.

STREWN
Strewn,

Defn: p. p. of Strew.

STRIA
Stri"a, n.; pl. Striæ. Etym: [L., a furrow, channel, hollow.]

1. A minute groove, or channel; a threadlike line, as of color; a
narrow structural band or line; a striation; as, the striæ, or
groovings, produced on a rock by a glacier passing over it; the striæ
on the surface of a shell; a stria of nervous matter in the brain.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A fillet between the flutes of columns, pilasters, or the like.
Oxf. Gloss.

STRIATE
Stri"ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Striated; p. pr. & vb. n. Striating.]
Etym: [See Striate, a.]

Defn: To mark with striaæ. "Striated longitudinally." Owen.

STRIATE; STRIATED
Stri"ate, Stri"a*ted, a. Etym: [L. striatus, p.p. of striare to
furnish with channels, from stria a channel.]

Defn: Marked with striaæ, or fine grooves, or lines of color; showing
narrow structural bands or lines; as, a striated crystal; striated
muscular fiber.

STRIATION
Stri*a"tion, n.

1. The quality or condition of being striated.

2. A stria; as, the striations on a shell.

STRIATUM
Stri*a"tum, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: The corpus striatum.

STRIATURE
Stri"a*ture, n. Etym: [L. striatura.]

Defn: A stria.

STRICH
Strich, n. Etym: [Cf. L. strix, strigs, a streech owl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An owl. [Obs.] Spenser.

STRICK
Strick, n.

Defn: A bunch of hackled flax prepared for drawing into slivers.
Knight.

STRICKEN
Strick"en, p. p. & a. from Strike.

1. Struck; smitten; wounded; as, the stricken deer.

Note: [See Strike, n.]

2. Worn out; far gone; advanced. See Strike, v. t., 21.
Abraham was old and well stricken in age. Gen. xxiv. 1.

3. Whole; entire; -- said of the hour as marked by the striking of a
clock. [Scot.]
He persevered for a stricken hour in such a torrent of unnecessary
tattle. Sir W. Scott.
Speeches are spoken by the stricken hour, day after day, week,
perhaps, after week. Bayne.

STRICKLE
Stric"kle, n. Etym: [See Strike.]

1. An instrument to strike grain to a level with the measure; a
strike.

2. An instrument for whetting scythes; a rifle.

3. (Founding)

Defn: An instrument used for smoothing the surface of a core.

4. (Carp. & Mason.)

Defn: A templet; a pattern.

5. An instrument used in dressing flax. [Prov. Eng.]

STRICKLER
Stric"kler, n.

Defn: See Strickle.

STRICKLESS
Strick"less, n.

Defn: See Strickle. [Prov. Eng.]

STRICT
Strict, a. [Compar. Stricter; superl. Strictest.] Etym: [L. strictus,
p.p. of stringere to draw or bind tight, to strain. See Strain, and
cf. Strait, a.]

1. Strained; drawn close; tight; as, a strict embrace; a strict
ligature. Dryden.

2. Tense; not relaxed; as, a strict fiber.

3. Exact; accurate; precise; rigorously nice; as, to keep strict
watch; to pay strict attention. Shak.
It shall be still in strictest measure. Milton.

4. Governed or governing by exact rules; observing exact rules;
severe; rigorous; as, very strict in observing the Sabbath. "Through
the strict senteries." Milton.

5. Rigidly; interpreted; exactly limited; confined; restricted; as,
to understand words in a strict sense.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: Upright, or straight and narrow; -- said of the shape of the
plants or their flower clusters.

Syn.
 -- Exact; accurate; nice; close; rigorous; severe.
 -- Strict, Severe. Strict, applied to a person, denotes that he
conforms in his motives and acts to a principle or code by which he
is bound; severe is strict with an implication often, but not always,
of harshness. Strict is opposed to lax; severe is opposed to gentle.
And rules as strict his labored work confine, As if the Stagirite
o'erlooked each line. Pope.
Soon moved with touch of blame, thus Eve: -"What words have passed
thy lips, Adam severe!" Milton.
The Strict Observance, or Friars of the Strict Observance. (R. C.
Ch.) See Observance.

STRICTION
Stric"tion, n. Etym: [L. strictio. See Stringent.]

Defn: The act of constricting, or the state of being constricted.
Line of striction (Geom.), the line on a skew surface that cuts each
generator in that point of it that is nearest to the succeeding
generator.

STRICTLY
Strict"ly, adv.

Defn: In a strict manner; closely; precisely.

STRICTNESS
Strict"ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being strict.

STRICTURE
Stric"ture, n. Etym: [L. strictura a contraction, from stringere,
strictum, to draw tight: cf. F. stricture. See Strict.]

1. Strictness. [Obs.]
A man of stricture and firm abstinence. Shak.

2. A stroke; a glance; a touch. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

3. A touch of adverse criticism; censure.
[I have] given myself the liberty of these strictures by way of
reflection on all and every passage. Hammond.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A localized morbid contraction of any passage of the body. Cf.
Organic stricture, and Spasmodic stricture, under Organic, and
Spasmodic. Arbuthnot.

STRICTURED
Stric"tured, a. (Med.)

Defn: Affected with a stricture; as, a strictured duct.

STRID
Strid, n. Etym: [See Stride.]

Defn: A narrow passage between precipitous rocks or banks, which
looks as if it might be crossed at a stride. [Prov. Eng.] Howitt.
This striding place is called the Strid. Wordsworth.

STRIDE
Stride, v. t. [imp. Strode (Obs. Strid (); p. p. Stridden (Obs.
Strid); p. pr. & vb. n. Striding.] Etym: [AS. stridan to stride, to
strive; akin to LG. striden, OFries. strida to strive, D. strijden to
strive, to contend, G. streiten, OHG. stritan; of uncertain origin.
Cf. Straddle.]

1. To walk with long steps, especially in a measured or pompous
manner.
Mars in the middle of the shining shield Is graved, and strides along
the liquid field. Dryden.

2. To stand with the legs wide apart; to straddle.

STRIDE
Stride, v. t.

1. To pass over at a step; to step over. "A debtor that not dares to
stride a limit." Shak.

2. To straddle; to bestride.
I mean to stride your steed. Shak.

STRIDE
Stride, n.

Defn: The act of stridding; a long step; the space measured by a long
step; as, a masculine stride. Pope.
God never meant that man should scale the heavens By strides of human
wisdom. Cowper.

STRIDENT
Stri"dent, a. Etym: [L. stridens, -entis, p.pr. of stridere to make a
grating or creaking noise.]

Defn: Characterized by harshness; grating; shrill. "A strident
voice." Thackeray.

STRIDOR
Stri"dor, n. Etym: [L., from stridere to make any harsh, grating, or
creaking sound.]

Defn: A harsh, shrill, or creaking noise. Dryden.

STRIDULATE
Strid"u*late, v. t. Etym: [See Stridulous.]

Defn: To make a shrill, creaking noise; specifically (Zoöl.),

Defn: to make a shrill or musical sound, such as is made by the males
of many insects.

STRIDULATION
Strid`u*la"tion, n.

Defn: The act of stridulating. Specifically: (Zoöl.)
(a) The act of making shrill sounds or musical notes by rubbing
together certain hard parts, as is done by the males of many insects,
especially by Orthoptera, such as crickets, grasshoppers, and
locusts.
(b) The noise itself.

Note: The crickets stridulate by rubbing together the strong nervures
of the fore wings. Many grasshoppers stridulate by rubbing the hind
legs across strong nervures on the fore wings. The green grasshoppers
and katydids stridulate by means of special organs at the base of the
fore wings.

STRIDULATOR
Strid"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: That which stridulates. Darwin.

STRIDULATORY
Strid"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Stridulous; able to stridulate; used in stridulating; adapted
for stridulation. Darwin.

STRIDULOUS
Strid"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. stridulus. See Strident.]

Defn: Making a shrill, creaking sound. Sir T. Browne.
The Sarmatian boor driving his stridulous cart. Longfellow.
Stridulous laryngitis (Med.), a form of croup, or laryngitis, in
children, associated with dyspnoea, occurring usually at night, and
marked by crowing or stridulous breathing.

STRIFE
Strife, n. Etym: [OF. estrif. See Strive.]

1. The act of striving; earnest endeavor. [Archaic] Shak.

2. Exertion or contention for superiority; contest of emulation,
either by intellectual or physical efforts.
Doting about questions and strifes of words. 1 Tim. vi. 4.
Thus gods contended -- noble strife -Who most should ease the wants
of life. Congreve.

3. Altercation; violent contention; fight; battle.
Twenty of them fought in this black strife. Shak.
These vows, thus granted, raised a strife above Betwixt the god of
war and queen of love. Dryden.

4. That which is contended against; occasion of contest. [Obs.]
"Lamenting her unlucky strife." Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Contest; struggle; quarrel. See Contention.

STRIFEFUL
Strife"ful, a.

Defn: Contentious; discordant.
The ape was strifeful and ambitious. Spenser.

STRIGATE
Stri"gate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having transverse bands of color.

STRIGES
Stri"ges, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of strix a streech owl; cf. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The tribe of birds which comprises the owls.

STRIGIL
Strig"il, n. Etym: [L. strigilis, from stringere to graze, scrape.]
(Gr. & Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An instrument of metal, ivory, etc., used for scraping the skin
at the bath.

STRIGILLOSE
Strig"il*lose`, a. Etym: [Dim. fr. strigose.] (Bot.)

Defn: Set with stiff, slender bristles.

STRIGINE
Stri"gine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to owls; owl-like.

STRIGMENT
Strig"ment, n. Etym: [L. strigmentum.]

Defn: Scraping; that which is scraped off. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

STRIGOSE
Stri*gose", a. Etym: [Cf. F. strigueux. See Strigil.] (Bot.)

Defn: Set with stiff, straight bristles; hispid; as, a strigose leaf.

STRIGOUS
Stri"gous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Strigose. [R.]

STRIKE
Strike, v. t. [imp. Struck; p. p. Struck, Stricken ( (Stroock (,
Strucken (, Obs.); p. pr. & vb. n. Striking. Struck is more commonly
used in the p.p. than stricken.] Etym: [OE. striken to strike,
proceed, flow, AS. strican to go, proceed, akin to D. strijken to
rub, stroke, strike, to move, go, G. streichen, OHG. strihhan, L.
stringere to touch lightly, to graze, to strip off (but perhaps not
to L. stringere in sense to draw tight), striga a row, a furrow. Cf.
Streak, Stroke.]

1. To touch or hit with some force, either with the hand or with an
instrument; to smite; to give a blow to, either with the hand or with
any instrument or missile.
He at Philippi kept His sword e'en like a dancer; while I struck The
lean and wrinkled Cassius. Shak.

2. To come in collision with; to strike against; as, a bullet struck
him; the wave struck the boat amidships; the ship struck a reef.

3. To give, as a blow; to impel, as with a blow; to give a force to;
to dash; to cast.
They shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two sideposts. Ex.
xii. 7.
Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow. Byron.

4. To stamp or impress with a stroke; to coin; as, to strike coin
from metal: to strike dollars at the mint.

5. To thrust in; to cause to enter or penetrate; to set in the earth;
as, a tree strikes its roots deep.

6. To punish; to afflict; to smite.
To punish the just is not good, nor strike princes for equity. Prov.
xvii. 26.

7. To cause to sound by one or more beats; to indicate or notify by
audible strokes; as, the clock strikes twelve; the drums strike up a
march.

8. To lower; to let or take down; to remove; as, to strike sail; to
strike a flag or an ensign, as in token of surrender; to strike a
yard or a topmast in a gale; to strike a tent; to strike the
centering of an arch.

9. To make a sudden impression upon, as by a blow; to affect sensibly
with some strong emotion; as, to strike the mind, with surprise; to
strike one with wonder, alarm, dread, or horror.
Nice works of art strike and surprise us most on the first view.
Atterbury.
They please as beauties, here as wonders strike. Pope.

10. To affect in some particular manner by a sudden impression or
impulse; as, the plan proposed strikes me favorably; to strike one
dead or blind.
How often has stricken you dumb with his irony! Landor.

11. To cause or produce by a stroke, or suddenly, as by a stroke; as,
to strike a light.
Waving wide her myrtle wand, She strikes a universal peace through
sea and land. Milton.

12. To cause to ignite; as, to strike a match.

13. To make and ratify; as, to strike a bargain.

Note: Probably borrowed from the L. foedus ferrire, to strike a
compact, so called because an animal was struck and killed as a
sacrifice on such occasions.

14. To take forcibly or fraudulently; as, to strike money. [Old
Slang]

15. To level, as a measure of grain, salt, or the like, by scraping
off with a straight instrument what is above the level of the top.

16. (Masonry)

Defn: To cut off, as a mortar joint, even with the face of the wall,
or inward at a slight angle.

17. To hit upon, or light upon, suddenly; as, my eye struck a strange
word; they soon struck the trail.

18. To borrow money of; to make a demand upon; as, he struck a friend
for five dollars. [Slang]

19. To lade into a cooler, as a liquor. B. Edwards.

20. To stroke or pass lightly; to wave.
Behold, I thought, He will . . . strike his hand over the place, and
recover the leper. 2 Kings v. 11.

21. To advance; to cause to go forward; -- used only in past
participle. "Well struck in years." Shak. To strike an attitude, To
strike a balance. See under Attitude, and Balance.
 -- To strike a jury (Law), to constitute a special jury ordered by a
court, by each party striking out a certain number of names from a
prepared list of jurors, so as to reduce it to the number of persons
required by law. Burrill.
 -- To strike a lead. (a) (Mining) To find a vein of ore. (b) Fig.:
To find a way to fortune. [Colloq.] -- To strike a ledger, or an
account, to balance it.
 -- To strike hands with. (a) To shake hands with. Halliwell. (b) To
make a compact or agreement with; to agree with.
 -- To strike off. (a) To erase from an account; to deduct; as, to
strike off the interest of a debt. (b) (Print.) To impress; to print;
as, to strike off a thousand copies of a book. (c) To separate by a
blow or any sudden action; as, to strike off what is superfluous or
corrupt.
 -- To strike oil, to find petroleum when boring for it;
figuratively, to make a lucky hit financially. [Slang, U.S.] -- To
strike one luck, to shake hands with one and wish good luck. [Obs.]
Beau. & Fl.
 -- To strike out. (a) To produce by collision; to force out, as, to
strike out sparks with steel. (b) To blot out; to efface; to erase.
"To methodize is as necessary as to strike out." Pope. (c) To form by
a quick effort; to devise; to invent; to contrive, as, to strike out
a new plan of finance. (d) (Baseball) To cause a player to strike
out; -- said of the pitcher. See To strike out, under Strike, v. i.
 -- To strike sail. See under Sail.
 -- To strike up. (a) To cause to sound; to begin to beat. "Strike up
the drums." Shak. (b) To begin to sing or play; as, to strike up a
tune. (c) To raise (as sheet metal), in making diahes, pans, etc., by
blows or pressure in a die.
 -- To strike work, to quit work; to go on a strike.

STRIKE
Strike, v. i.

Defn: To move; to advance; to proceed; to take a course; as, to
strike into the fields.
A mouse . . . struck forth sternly [bodily]. Piers Plowman.

2. To deliver a quick blow or thrust; to give blows.
And fiercely took his trenchant blade in hand, With which he stroke
so furious and so fell. Spenser.
Strike now, or else the iron cools. Shak.

3. To hit; to collide; to dush; to clash; as, a hammer strikes
against the bell of a clock.

4. To sound by percussion, with blows, or as with blows; to be
struck; as, the clock strikes.
A deep sound strikes like a rising knell. Byron.

5. To make an attack; to aim a blow.
A puny subject strikes At thy great glory. Shak.
Struck for throne, and striking found his doom. Tennyson.

6. To touch; to act by appulse.
Hinder light but from striking on it [porphyry], and its colors
vanish. Locke.

7. To run upon a rock or bank; to be stranded; as, the ship struck in
the night.

8. To pass with a quick or strong effect; to dart; to penetrate.
Till a dart strike through his liver. Prov. vii. 23.
Now and then a glittering beam of wit or passion strikes through the
obscurity of the poem. Dryden.

9. To break forth; to commence suddenly; -- with into; as, to strike
into reputation; to strike into a run.

10. To lower a flag, or colors, in token of respect, or to signify a
surrender of a ship to an enemy.
That the English ships of war should not strike in the Danish seas.
Bp. Burnet.

11. To quit work in order to compel an increase, or prevent a
reduction, of wages.

12. To become attached to something; -- said of the spat of oysters.

13. To steal money. [Old Slang, Eng.] Nares. To strike at, to aim a
blow at.
 -- To strike for, to start suddenly on a course for.
 -- To strike home, to give a blow which reaches its object, to
strike with effect.
 -- To strike in. (a) To enter suddenly. (b) To disappear from the
surface, with internal effects, as an eruptive disease. (c) To come
in suddenly; to interpose; to interrupt. "I proposed the embassy of
Constantinople for Mr. Henshaw, but my Lord Winchelsea struck in."
Evelyn. (d) To join in after another has begun,as in singing.
 -- To strike in with, to conform to; to suit itself to; to side
with, to join with at once. "To assert this is to strike in with the
known enemies of God's grace." South. To strike out. (a) To start; to
wander; to make a sudden excursion; as, to strike out into an
irregular course of life. (b) To strike with full force. (c)
(Baseball) To be put out for not hitting the ball during one's turn
at the bat.
 -- To strike up, to commence to play as a musician; to begin to
sound, as an instrument. "Whilst any trump did sound, or drum struck
up." Shak.

STRIKE
Strike, n.

1. The act of striking.

2. An instrument with a straight edge for leveling a measure of
grain, salt, and the like, scraping off what is above the level of
the top; a strickle.

3. A bushel; four pecks. [Prov. Eng.] Tusser.

4. An old measure of four bushels. [Prov. Eng.]

5. Fullness of measure; hence, excellence of quality.
Three hogsheads of ale of the first strike. Sir W. Scott.

6. An iron pale or standard in a gate or fence. [Obs.]

7. The act of quitting work; specifically, such an act by a body of
workmen, done as a means of enforcing compliance with demands made on
their employer.
Strikes are the insurrections of labor. F. A. Walker.

8. (Iron Working)

Defn: A puddler's stirrer.

9. (Geol.)

Defn: The horizontal direction of the outcropping edges of tilted
rocks; or, the direction of a horizontal line supposed to be drawn on
the surface of a tilted stratum. It is at right angles to the dip.

10. The extortion of money, or the attempt to extort money, by threat
of injury; blackmailing. Strike block (Carp.), a plane shorter than a
jointer, used for fitting a short joint. Moxon.
 -- Strike of flax, a handful that may be hackled at once. [Obs. or
Prov. Eng.] Chaucer.
 -- Strike of sugar. (Sugar Making) (a) The act of emptying the
teache, or last boiler, in which the cane juice is exposed to heat,
into the coolers. (b) The quantity of the sirup thus emptied at once.

STRIKER
Strik"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, strikes; specifically, a blacksmith's
helper who wieds the sledge.

2. A harpoon; also, a harpooner.
Wherever we come to an anchor, we always send out our strikers, and
put out hooks and lines overboard, to try fish. Dampier.

3. A wencher; a lewd man. [Obs.] Massinger.

4. A workman who is on a strike.

5. A blackmailer in politics; also, one whose political influence can
be bought. [Political Cant]

STRIKING
Strik"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Strike, v. Striking distance, the distance through
which an object can be reached by striking; the distance at which a
force is effective when directed to a particular object.
 -- Striking plate. (a) The plate against which the latch of a door
lock strikes as the door is closed. (b) A part of the centering of an
arch, which is driven back to loosen the centering in striking it.

STRIKING
Strik"ing, a.

Defn: Affecting with strong emotions; surprising; forcible;
impressive; very noticeable; as, a striking representation or image;
a striking resemblance. "A striking fact." De Quincey.
 -- Strik"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Strik"ing*ness, n.

STRIKLE
Strik"le, n.

Defn: See Strickle.

STRING
String, n. Etym: [OE. string, streng, AS. streng; akin to D. streng,
G. strang, Icel. strengr, Sw. sträng, Dan. stræng; probably from the
adj., E. strong (see Strong); or perhaps originally meaning, twisted,
and akin to E. strangle.]

1. A small cord, a line, a twine, or a slender strip of leather, or
other substance, used for binding together, fastening, or tying
things; a cord, larger than a thread and smaller than a rope; as, a
shoe string; a bonnet string; a silken string. Shak.
Round Ormond's knee thou tiest the mystic string. Prior.

2. A thread or cord on which a number of objects or parts are strung
or arranged in close and orderly succession; hence, a line or series
of things arranged on a thread, or as if so arranged; a succession; a
concatenation; a chain; as, a string of shells or beads; a string of
dried apples; a string of houses; a string of arguments. "A string of
islands." Gibbon.

3. A strip, as of leather, by which the covers of a book are held
together. Milton.

4. The cord of a musical instrument, as of a piano, harp, or violin;
specifically (pl.), the stringed instruments of an orchestra, in
distinction from the wind instruments; as, the strings took up the
theme. "An instrument of ten strings." Ps. xxx. iii. 2.
Me softer airs befit, and softer strings Of lute, or viol still.
Milton.

5. The line or cord of a bow. Ps. xi. 2.
He twangs the grieving string. Pope.

6. A fiber, as of a plant; a little, fibrous root.
Duckweed putteth forth a little string into the water, from the
bottom. Bacon.

7. A nerve or tendon of an animal body.
The string of his tongue was loosed. Mark vii. 35.

8. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: An inside range of ceiling planks, corresponding to the sheer
strake on the outside and bolted to it.

9. (Bot.)

Defn: The tough fibrous substance that unites the valves of the
pericap of leguminous plants, and which is readily pulled off; as,
the strings of beans.

10. (Mining)

Defn: A small, filamentous ramification of a metallic vein. Ure.

11. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Stringcourse.

12. (Billiards)

Defn: The points made in a game. String band (Mus.), a band of
musicians using only, or chiefly, stringed instruments.
 -- String beans. (a) A dish prepared from the unripe pods of several
kinds of beans; -- so called because the strings are stripped off.
(b) Any kind of beans in which the pods are used for cooking before
the seeds are ripe; usually, the low bush bean.
 -- To have two strings to one's bow, to have a means or expedient in
reserve in case the one employed fails.

STRING
String, v. t. [imp. Strung; p. p. Strung (R. Stringed); p. pr. & vb.
n. Stringing.]

1. To furnish with strings; as, to string a violin.
Has not wise nature strung the legs and feet With firmest nerves,
designed to walk the street Gay.

2. To put in tune the strings of, as a stringed instrument, in order
to play upon it.
For here the Muse so oft her harp has strung, That not a mountain
rears its head unsung. Addison.

3. To put on a string; to file; as, to string beads.

4. To make tense; to strengthen.
Toil strung the nerves, and purified the blood. Dryden.

5. To deprive of strings; to strip the strings from; as, to string
beans. See String, n., 9.

STRINGBOARD
String"board`, n.

Defn: Same as Stringpiece.

STRINGCOURSE
String"course`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A horizontal band in a building, forming a part of the design,
whether molded, projecting, or carved, or in any way distinguished
from the rest of the work.

STRINGED
Stringed, a.

1. Having strings; as, a stringed instrument. Ps. cl. 4.

2. Produced by strings. "Answering the stringed noise." Milton.

STRINGENCY
Strin"gen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stringent.

STRINGENDO
Strin"gen*do, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Urging or hastening the time, as to a climax.

STRINGENT
Strin"gent, a. Etym: [L. stringens, -entis, p.pr. of stringere to
draw or bind tight. See Strain.]

Defn: Binding strongly; making strict requirements; restrictive;
rigid; severe; as, stringent rules.
They must be subject to a sharper penal code, and to a more stringent
code of procedure. Macaulay.
-- Strin"gent*ly, adv.
 -- Strin"gent*ness, n.

STRINGER
String"er, n.

1. One who strings; one who makes or provides strings, especially for
bows.
Be content to put your trust in honest stringers. Ascham.

2. A libertine; a wencher. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

3. (Railroad)

Defn: A longitudinal sleeper.

4. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A streak of planking carried round the inside of a vessel on
the under side of the beams.

5. (Carp.)

Defn: A long horizontal timber to connect uprights in a frame, or to
support a floor or the like.

STRINGHALT
String"halt`, n. (Far.)

Defn: An habitual sudden twitching of the hinder leg of a horse, or
an involuntary or convulsive contraction of the muscles that raise
the hock. [Written also springhalt.]

STRINGINESS
String"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being stringy.

STRINGLESS
String"less, a.

Defn: Having no strings.
His tongue is now a stringless instrument. Shak.

STRINGPIECE
String"piece`, n. (Arch.)
(a) A long piece of timber, forming a margin or edge of any piece of
construction; esp.:
(b) One of the longitudinal pieces, supporting the treads and rises
of a flight or run of stairs.

STRINGY
String"y, a.

1. Consisting of strings, or small threads; fibrous; filamentous; as,
a stringy root.

2. Capable of being drawn into a string, as a glutinous substance;
ropy; viscid; gluely. Stringy bark (Bot.), a name given in Australia
to several trees of the genus Eucalyptus (as E. amygdalina, obliqua,
capitellata, macrorhyncha, piperita, pilularis, and tetradonta),
which have a fibrous bark used by the aborigines for making cordage
and cloth.

STRIP
Strip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stripped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stripping.]
Etym: [OE. stripen, strepen, AS. str in bestr to plunder; akin to D.
stroopen, MHG. stroufen, G. streifen.]

1. To deprive; to bereave; to make destitute; to plunder; especially,
to deprive of a covering; to skin; to peel; as, to strip a man of his
possession, his rights, his privileges, his reputation; to strip one
of his clothes; to strip a beast of his skin; to strip a tree of its
bark.
And strippen her out of her rude array. Chaucer.
They stripped Joseph out of his coat. Gen. xxxvii. 23.
Opinions which . . . no clergyman could have avowed without imminent
risk of being stripped of his gown. Macaulay.

2. To divest of clothing; to uncover.
Before the folk herself strippeth she. Chaucer.
Strip your sword stark naked. Shak.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: To dismantle; as, to strip a ship of rigging, spars, etc.

4. (Agric.)

Defn: To pare off the surface of, as land, in strips.

5. To deprive of all milk; to milk dry; to draw the last milk from;
hence, to milk with a peculiar movement of the hand on the teats at
the last of a milking; as, to strip a cow.

6. To pass; to get clear of; to outstrip. [Obs.]
When first they stripped the Malean promontory. Chapman.
Before he reached it he was out of breath, And then the other
stripped him. Beau. & Fl.

7. To pull or tear off, as a covering; to remove; to wrest away; as,
to strip the skin from a beast; to strip the bark from a tree; to
strip the clothes from a man's back; to strip away all disguisses.
To strip bad habits from a corrupted heart, is stripping off the
skin. Gilpin.

8. (Mach.)
(a) To tear off (the thread) from a bolt or nut; as, the thread is
stripped.
(b) To tear off the thread from (a bolt or nut); as, the bolt is
stripped.

9. To remove the metal coating from (a plated article), as by acids
or electrolytic action.

10. (Carding)

Defn: To remove fiber, flock, or lint from; -- said of the teeth of a
card when it becomes partly clogged.

11. To pick the cured leaves from the stalks of (tobacco) and tie
them into "hands"; to remove the midrib from (tobacco leaves).

STRIP
Strip, v. i.

1. To take off, or become divested of, clothes or covering; to
undress.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: To fail in the thread; to lose the thread, as a bolt, screw, or
nut. See Strip, v. t., 8.

STRIP
Strip, n.

1. A narrow piece, or one comparatively long; as, a strip of cloth; a
strip of land.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A trough for washing ore.

3. (Gunnery)

Defn: The issuing of a projectile from a rifled gun without acquiring
the spiral motion. Farrow.

STRIPE
Stripe, n. Etym: [OD. strijpe a stripe, streak; akin to LG. stripe,
D. streep, Dan. stribe, G. strief, striefen, MHG. striefen to glide,
march.]

1. A line, or long, narrow division of anything of a different color
or structure from the ground; hence, any linear variation of color or
structure; as, a stripe, or streak, of red on a green ground; a
raised stripe.

2. (Weaving)

Defn: A pattern produced by arranging the warp threads in sets of
alternating colors, or in sets presenting some other contrast of
appearance.

3. A strip, or long, narrow piece attached to something of a
different color; as, a red or blue stripe sewed upon a garment.

4. A stroke or blow made with a whip, rod, scourge, or the like, such
as usually leaves a mark.
Forty stripes he may give him, and not exceed. Deut. xxv. 3.

5. A long, narrow discoloration of the skin made by the blow of a
lash, rod, or the like.
Cruelty marked him with inglorious stripes. Thomson.

6. Color indicating a party or faction; hence, distinguishing
characteristic; sign; likeness; sort; as, persons of the same
political stripe. [Colloq. U.S.]

7. pl. (Mil.)

Defn: The chevron on the coat of a noncommissioned officer. Stars and
Stripes. See under Star, n.

STRIPE
Stripe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Striped; p. pr. & vb. n. Striping.]

1. To make stripes upon; to form with lines of different colors or
textures; to variegate with stripes.

2. To strike; to lash. [R.]

STRIPED
Striped, a.

Defn: Having stripes of different colors; streaked. Striped bass.
(Zoöl.) See under Bass.
 -- Striped maple (Bot.), a slender American tree (Acer
Pennsylvanicum) with finely striped bark. Called also striped
dogwood, and moosewood.
 -- Striped mullet. (Zoöl.) See under Mullet, 2.
 -- Striped snake (Zoöl.), the garter snake.
 -- Striped squirrel (Zoöl.), the chipmunk.

STRIP-LEAF
Strip"-leaf`, n.

Defn: Tobacco which has been stripped of its stalks before packing.

STRIPLING
Strip"ling, n. Etym: [Dim. of strip; as if a small strip from the
main stock or steam.]

Defn: A youth in the state of adolescence, or just passing from
boyhood to manhood; a lad.
Inquire thou whose son the stripling is. 1 Sam. xvii. 56.

STRIPPER
Strip"per, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, strips; specifically, a machine for
stripping cards.

STRIPPET
Strip"pet, n. Etym: [Dim. of strip.]

Defn: A small stream. [Obs.] "A little brook or strippet." Holinshed.

STRIPPING
Strip"ping, n.

1. The act of one who strips.
The mutual bows and courtesies . . . are remants of the original
prostrations and strippings of the captive. H. Spencer.
Never were cows that required such stripping. Mrs. Gaskell.

2. pl.

Defn: The last milk drawn from a cow at a milking.

STRISORES
Stri*so"res, n. pl. Etym: [NL.; cf. L. stridere to creak, whiz,
buzz.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of passerine birds including the humming birds,
swifts, and goatsuckers. It is now generally considered an artificial
group.

STRIVE
Strive, v. i. [imp. Strove; p. p. Striven (Rarely, Strove); p. pr. &
vb. n. Striving.] Etym: [OF. estriver; of Teutonic origin, and akin
to G. streben, D. streven, Dan. stræbe, Sw. sträfva. Cf. Strife.]

1. To make efforts; to use exertions; to endeavor with earnestness;
to labor hard.
Was for this his ambition strove To equal Cæsar first, and after,
Jove Cowley.

2. To struggle in opposition; to be in contention or dispute; to
contend; to contest; -- followed by against or with before the person
or thing opposed; as, strive against temptation; strive for the
truth. Chaucer.
My Spirit shall not always strive with man. Gen. vi. 3.
Why dost thou strive against him Job xxxiii. 13.
Now private pity strove with public hate, Reason with rage, and
eloquence with fate. Denham.

3. To vie; to compete; to be a rival. Chaucer.
[Not] that sweet grove Of Daphne, by Orontes and the inspired
Castalian spring, might with this paradise Of Eden strive. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To contend; vie; struggle; endeavor; aim.

STRIVE
Strive, n.

1. An effort; a striving. [R.] Chapman.

2. Strife; contention. [Obs.] Wyclif (luke xxi. 9).

STRIVED
Strived, obs. p. p. of Strive.

Defn: Striven.
Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel. Rom. xv. 20.

STRIVEN
Striv"en,

Defn: p. p. of Strive.

STRIVER
Striv"er, n.

Defn: One who strives.

STRIVING
Striv"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Strive.
 -- Striv"ing*ly, adv.

STRIX
Strix, n. Etym: [L. strix, strigis.] (Arch.)

Defn: One of the flutings of a column.

STROAM
Stroam, v. i. Etym: [Prov. E. strome to walk with long strides.]

1. To wander about idly and vacantly. [Obs.]

2. To take long strides in walking. [Prov. Eng.]

STROBILA
Stro*bi"la, n.; pl. Strobilæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) A form of the larva of certain Discophora in a state of
development succeeding the scyphistoma. The body of the strobila
becomes elongated, and subdivides transversely into a series of
lobate segments which eventually become ephyræ, or young medusæ.
(b) A mature tapeworm.

STROBILACEOUS
Strob`i*la"ceous, a. Etym: [See Strobila.] (Bot.)
(a) Of or pertaining to a strobile or cone.
(b) Producing strobiles.

STROBILATION
Strob`i*la"tion, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The act or phenomenon of spontaneously dividing transversely,
as do certain species of annelids and helminths; transverse fission.
See Illust. under Syllidian.

STROBILE
Strob"ile, n. Etym: [L. strobilus a pine cone, Gr. strobole.]
[Written also strobil.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A scaly multiple fruit resulting from the ripening of an ament
in certain plants, as the hop or pine; a cone. See Cone, n., 3.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: An individual asexually producing sexual individuals differing
from itself also in other respects, as the tapeworm, -- one of the
forms that occur in metagenesis.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Strobila.

STROBILIFORM
Stro*bil"i*form, a.

Defn: Shaped like a strobile.

STROBILINE
Strob"i*line, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a strobile; strobilaceous; strobiliform;
as, strobiline fruits.

STROBOSCOPE
Strob"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

1. An instrument for studying or observing the successive phases of a
periodic or varying motion by means of light which is periodically
interrupted.

2. An optical toy similar to the phenakistoscope. See
Phenakistoscope.

STROCKLE
Stroc"kle, n. (Glass Manuf.)

Defn: A shovel with a turned-up edge, for frit, sand, etc. [Written
also strocal, strocle, strokal.]

STRODE
Strode, n.

Defn: See Strude. [Obs.]

STRODE
Strode,

Defn: imp. of Stride.

STROKE
Stroke, obs. imp. of Strike.

Defn: Struck.

STROKE
Stroke, n. Etym: [OE. strok, strook, strak, fr. striken. See Strike,
v. t.]

1. The act of striking; a blow; a hit; a knock; esp., a violent or
hostile attack made with the arm or hand, or with an instrument or
weapon.
His hand fetcheth a stroke with the ax to cut down the tree. Deut.
xix. 5.
A fool's lips enter into contention and his mouth calleth for
strokes. Prov. xviii. 6.
He entered and won the whole kingdom of Naples without striking a
stroke. Bacon.

2. The result of effect of a striking; injury or affliction;
soreness.
In the day that Lord bindeth up the breach of his people, and healeth
the stroke of their wound. Isa. xxx. 26.

3. The striking of the clock to tell the hour.
Well, but what's o'clock - Upon the stroke of ten.
 -- Well, let is strike. Shak.

4. A gentle, caressing touch or movement upon something; a stroking.
Dryden.

5. A mark or dash in writing or printing; a line; the touch of a pen
or pencil; as, an up stroke; a firm stroke.
O, lasting as those colors may they shine, Free as thy stroke, yet
faultless as thy line. Pope.

6. Hence, by extension, an addition or amandment to a written
composition; a touch; as, to give some finishing strokes to an essay.
Addison.

7. A sudden attack of disease; especially, a fatal attack; a severe
disaster; any affliction or calamity, especially a sudden one; as, a
stroke of apoplexy; the stroke of death.
At this one stroke the man looked dead in law. Harte.

8. A throb or beat, as of the heart. Tennyson.

9. One of a series of beats or movements against a resisting medium,
by means of which movement through or upon it is accomplished; as,
the stroke of a bird's wing in flying, or an oar in rowing, of a
skater, swimmer, etc.; also: (Rowing)
(a) The rate of succession of stroke; as, a quick stroke.
(b) The oar nearest the stern of a boat, by which the other oars are
guided; -- called also stroke oar.
(c) The rower who pulls the stroke oar; the strokesman.

10. A powerful or sudden effort by which something is done, produced,
or accomplished; also, something done or accomplished by such an
effort; as, a stroke of genius; a stroke of business; a master stroke
of policy.

11. (Mach.)

Defn: The movement, in either direction, of the piston plunger,
piston rod, crosshead, etc., as of a steam engine or a pump, in which
these parts have a reciprocating motion; as, the forward stroke of a
piston; also, the entire distance passed through, as by a piston, in
such a movement; as, the piston is at half stroke.

Note: The respective strokes are distinguished as up and down
strokes, outward and inward strokes, forward and back strokes, the
forward stroke in stationary steam engines being toward the
crosshead, but in locomotives toward the front of the vehicle.

12. Power; influence. [Obs.] "Where money beareth [hath] all the
stroke." Robynson (More's Utopia).
He has a great stroke with the reader. Dryden.

13. Appetite. [Obs.] Swift. To keep stroke, to make strokes in
unison.
The oars where silver, Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke. Shak.

STROKE
Stroke, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strokeed; p. pr. & vb. n. Strokeing.]
Etym: [OE. stroken, straken, AS. stracian, fr. strican to go over,
pass. See Strike, v. t., and cf. Straggle.]

1. To strike. [Obs.]
Ye mote with the plat sword again Stroken him in the wound, and it
will close. Chaucer.

2. To rib gently in one direction; especially, to pass the hand
gently over by way of expressing kindness or tenderness; to caress;
to soothe.
He dried the falling drops, and, yet more kind, He stroked her
cheeks. Dryden.

3. To make smooth by rubbing. Longfellow.

4. (Masonry)

Defn: To give a finely fluted surface to.

5. To row the stroke oar of; as, to stroke a boat.

STROKER
Strok"er, n.

Defn: One who strokes; also, one who pretends to cure by stroking.
Cures worked by Greatrix the stroker. Bp. Warburton.

STROKESMAN
Strokes"man, n.; pl. Strokesman (. (Rowing)

Defn: The man who rows the aftermost oar, and whose stroke is to be
followed by the rest. Totten.

STROKING
Strok"ing, n.

1. The act of rubbing gently with the hand, or of smoothing; a
stroke.
I doubt not with one gentle stroking to wipe away ten thousand tears.
Milton.

2. (Needlework)

Defn: The act of laying small gathers in cloth in regular order.

3. pl.

Defn: See Stripping, 2. Smollett.

STROLL
Stroll, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Strolled; p. pr. & vb. n. Strolling.]
Etym: [Cf. Dan. stryge to stroll, Sw. stryka to stroke, to ramble,
dial. Sw. strykel one who strolls about, Icel. strj to stroke, D.
struikelen to stumble, G. straucheln. Cf. Struggle.]

Defn: To wander on foot; to ramble idly or leisurely; to rove.
These mothers stroll to beg sustenance for their helpless infants.
Swift.

Syn.
 -- To rove; roam; range; stray.

STROLL
Stroll, n.

Defn: A wandering on foot; an idle and leisurely walk; a ramble.

STROLLER
Stroll"er, n.

Defn: One who strolls; a vagrant.

STROMA
Stro"ma, n.; pl. Stromata. Etym: [L., a bed covering, Gr.

1. (Anat.)
(a) The connective tissue or supporting framework of an organ; as,
the stroma of the kidney.
(b) The spongy, colorless framework of a red blood corpuscle or other
cell.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A layer or mass of cellular tissue, especially that part of the
thallus of certain fungi which incloses the perithecia.

STROMATIC
Stro*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. miscellaneous writings, fr.

Defn: Miscellaneous; composed of different kinds.

STROMATOLOGY
Stro`ma*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Geol.)

Defn: The history of the formation of stratified rocks.

STROMB
Stromb, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any marine univalve mollusk of the genus Strombus and allied
genera. See Conch, and Strombus.

STROMBITE
Strom"bite, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil shell of the genus Strombus.

STROMBOID
Strom"boid, a. Etym: [Strombus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, Strombus.

STROMBULIFORM
Strom*bu"li*form, a. Etym: [NL. strombulus, dim. of strombus + -form.
See Strombus.]

1. (Geol.)

Defn: Formed or shaped like a top.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Coiled into the shape of a screw or a helix.

STROMBUS
Strom"bus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine gastropods in which the shell has the outer
lip dilated into a broad wing. It includes many large and handsome
species commonly called conch shells, or conchs. See Conch.

STROMEYERITE
Stro"mey`er*ite, n. Etym: [So named from the German chemist Friedrich
Stromeyer.] (Min.)

Defn: A steel-gray mineral of metallic luster. It is a sulphide of
silver and copper.

STROND
Strond, n.

Defn: Strand; beach. [Obs.] Shak.

STRONG
Strong, a. [Compar. Stronger; superl. Strongest.] Etym: [AS. strang,
strong; akin to D. & G. streng strict, rigorous, OHG. strengi strong,
brave, harsh, Icel. strangr strong, severe, Dan. streng, Sw. sträng
strict, severe. Cf. Strength, Stretch, String.]

1. Having active physical power, or great physical power to act;
having a power of exerting great bodily force; vigorous.
That our oxen may be strong to labor. Ps. cxliv. 14.
Orses the strong to greater strength must yield. Dryden.

2. Having passive physical power; having ability to bear or endure;
firm; hale; sound; robust; as, a strong constitution; strong health.

3. Solid; tough; not easily broken or injured; able to withstand
violence; able to sustain attacks; not easily subdued or taken; as, a
strong beam; a strong rock; a strong fortress or town.

4. Having great military or naval force; powerful; as, a strong army
or fleet; a nation strong at sea.

5. Having great wealth, means, or resources; as, a strong house, or
company of merchants.

6. Reaching a certain degree or limit in respect to strength or
numbers; as, an army ten thousand strong.

7. Moving with rapidity or force; violent; forcible; impetuous; as, a
strong current of water or wind; the wind was strong from the
northeast; a strong tide.

8. Adapted to make a deep or effectual impression on the mind or
imagination; striking or superior of the kind; powerful; forcible;
cogent; as, a strong argument; strong reasons; strong evidence; a
strong example; strong language.

9. Ardent; eager; zealous; earnestly engaged; as, a strong partisan;
a strong Whig or Tory.
Her mother, ever strong against that match. Shak.

10. Having virtues of great efficacy; or, having a particular quality
in a great degree; as, a strong powder or tincture; a strong
decoction; strong tea or coffee.

11. Full of spirit; containing a large proportion of alcohol;
intoxicating; as, strong liquors.

12. Affecting any sense powerfully; as, strong light, colors, etc.; a
strong flavor of onions; a strong scent.

13. Solid; nourishing; as, strong meat. Heb. v. 12.

14. Well established; firm; not easily overthrown or altered; as, a
strong custom; a strong belief.

15. Violent; vehement; earnest; ardent.
He had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and
tears. Heb. v. 7.

16. Having great force, vigor, power, or the like, as the mind,
intellect, or any faculty; as, a man of a strong mind, memory,
judgment, or imagination.
I was stronger in prophecy than in criticism. Dryden.

17. Vigorous; effective; forcible; powerful.
Like her sweet voice is thy harmonious song, As high, as sweet, as
easy, and as strong. E. Smith.

18. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: Tending to higher prices; rising; as, a strong market.

19. (Gram.)
(a) Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit
(imperfect) by a variation in the root vowel, and the past participle
(usually) by the addition of -en (with or without a change of the
root vowel); as in the verbs strive, strove, striven; break, broke,
broken; drink, drank, drunk. Opposed to weak, or regular. See Weak.
(b) Applied to forms in Anglo-Saxon, etc., which retain the old
declensional endings. In the Teutonic languages the vowel stems have
held the original endings most firmly, and are called strong; the
stems in -n are called weak other constant stems conform, or are
irregular. F. A. March. Strong conjugation (Gram.), the conjugation
of a strong verb; -- called also old, or irregular, conjugation, and
distinguished from the weak, or regular, conjugation.

Note: Strong is often used in the formation of self-explaining
compounds; as, strong-backed, strong-based, strong-bodied, strong-
colored, strong-fisted, strong-handed, strong-ribbed, strong-
smelling, strong-voiced, etc.

Syn.
 -- Vigorous; powerful; stout; solid; firm; hardy; muscular;
forcible; cogent; valid. See Robust.

STRONGHAND
Strong"hand`, n.

Defn: Violence; force; power.
It was their meaning to take what they needed by stronghand. Sir W.
Raleigh.

STRONGHOLD
Strong"hold`, n.

Defn: A fastness; a fort or fortress; fortfield place; a place of
security.

STRONGISH
Strong"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat strong.

STRONGLY
Strong"ly, adv.

Defn: In a strong manner; so as to be strong in action or in
resistance; with strength; with great force; forcibly; powerfully;
firmly; vehemently; as, a town strongly fortified; he objected
strongly.

STRONG-MINDED
Strong"-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Having a vigorous mind; esp., having or affecting masculine
qualities of mind; -- said of women.
 -- Strong"-mind`ed*ness, n.

STRONG-WATER
Strong"-wa`ter, n.

1. An acid. [Obs.]

2. Distilled or ardent spirits; intoxicating liquor.

STRONGYLID
Stron"gy*lid, a. & n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Strongyloid.

STRONGYLOID
Stron"gy*loid, a. Etym: [NL. Strongylus the genus (from Gr. -oid.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, Strongylus, a genus of parasitic
nematode worms of which many species infest domestic animals. Some of
the species, especially those living in the kidneys, lungs, and
bronchial tubes, are often very injurious.
 -- n.

Defn: A strongyloid worm.

STRONTIA
Stron"ti*a, n. Etym: [NL. strontia, fr. Strontian, in Argyleshire,
Scotland, where strontianite was first found.] (Chem.)

Defn: An earth of a white color resembling lime in appearance, and
baryta in many of its properties. It is an oxide of the metal
strontium.

STRONTIAN
Stron"ti*an, n. (Min.)

Defn: Strontia.

STRONTIANITE
Stron"ti*an*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Strontium carbonate, a mineral of a white, greenish, or
yellowish color, usually occurring in fibrous massive forms, but
sometimes in prismatic crystals.

STRONTIC
Stron"tic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to strontium; containing, or designating the
compounds of, strontium.

STRONTITIC
Stron*tit"ic, a.

Defn: Strontic.

STRONTIUM
Stron"ti*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Strontia.] (Chem.)

Defn: A metallic element of the calcium group, always naturally
occurring combined, as in the minerals strontianite, celestite, etc.
It is isolated as a yellowish metal, somewhat malleable but harder
than calcium. It is chiefly employed (as in the nitrate) to color
pyrotechnic flames red. Symbol Sr. Atomic weight 87.3. A radioactive
isotope of strontium produced by certain nuclear reactions, and
constituting one of the prominent harmful components of radioactive
fallout from nuclear explosions; also called radiostrontium. It has a
half-life of 28 years.

STROOK
Strook, obs.

Defn: imp. of Strike. Dryden.

STROOK
Strook, n.

Defn: A stroke. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STROOT
Stroot, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Strut, v. i.]

Defn: To swell out; to strut. [Obs.] Chapman.

STROP
Strop, n. Etym: [See Strap.]

Defn: A strap; specifically, same as Strap, 3.

STROP
Strop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stropped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stropping.]

Defn: To draw over, or rub upon, a strop with a view to sharpen; as,
to strop a razor.

STROP
Strop, n. Etym: [Cf. F. estrope, étrope, fr. L. struppus. See Strop a
strap.] (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of rope spliced into a circular wreath, and put round a
block for hanging it.

STROPHANTHUS
Stro*phan"thus, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical apocynaceous shrubs having singularly
twisted flowers. One species (Strophanthus hispidus) is used
medicinally as a cardiac sedative and stimulant.

STROPHE
Stro"phe, n.; pl. Strophes. Etym: [NL., from Gr. strap.]

Defn: In Greek choruses and dances, the movement of the chorus while
turning from the right to the left of the orchestra; hence, the
strain, or part of the choral ode, sung during this movement. Also
sometimes used of a stanza of modern verse. See the Note under
Antistrophe.

STROPHIC
Stroph"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, strophes.

STROPHIOLATE; STROPHIOLATED
Stro"phi*o*late, Stro"phi*o*la`ted, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with a strophiole, or caruncle, or that which
resembles it. Gray.

STROPHIOLE
Stro"phi*ole, n. Etym: [L. strophiolum a little chaplet, dim. of
strophium a band, Gr. strophiole.] (Bot.)

Defn: A crestlike excrescence about the hilum of certain seeds; a
caruncle.

STROPHULUS
Stroph"u*lus, n. Etym: [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: See Red-gum, 1.

STROUD
Stroud, n.

Defn: A kind of coarse blanket or garment used by the North American
Indians.

STROUDING
Stroud"ing, n.

Defn: Material for strouds; a kind of coarse cloth used in trade with
the North American Indians.

STROUT
Strout, v. i. Etym: [See Strut.]

Defn: To swell; to puff out; to project. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STROUT
Strout, v. t.

Defn: To cause to project or swell out; to enlarge affectedly; to
strut. [Obs.] Bacon.

STROVE
Strove,

Defn: imp. of Strive.

STROW
Strow, v. t. [imp. Strowed; p. p. Strown or Strowed.]

Defn: Same as Strew.
Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks In Vallombrosa.
Milton.
A manner turbid . . . and strown with blemished. M. Arnold.

STROWL
Strowl, v. i.

Defn: To stroll. [Obs.]

STROWN
Strown,

Defn: p. p. of Strow.

STROY
Stroy, v. i.

Defn: To destroy. [Obs.] Tusser.

STRUCK
Struck,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Strike. Struck jury (Law), a special jury,
composed of persons having special knowledge or qualifications,
selected by striking from the panel of jurors a certain number for
each party, leaving the number required by law to try the cause.

STRUCKEN
Struck"en, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Strike. Shak.

STRUCTURAL
Struc"tur*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to structure; affecting structure; as, a
structural error.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to organit structure; as, a structural element
or cell; the structural peculiarities of an animal or a plant.
Structural formula. (Chem.) See Rational formula, under Formula.
empirical formula.

STRUCTURAL SHAPE
Struc"tur*al shape. (Engin. & Arch.)

Defn: The shape of a member especially adapted to structural
purposes, esp. in giving the greatest strength with the least
material. Hence, Colloq.,

Defn: any steel or iron member of such shape, as channel irons, I
beams, T beams, etc., or, sometimes, a column, girder, etc., built up
with such members.

STRUCTURAL STEEL
Structural steel.
 (a) Rolled steel in structural shapes.
 (b)  A kind of strong mild steel, suitable for structural shapes.

STRUCTURE
Struc"ture, n. Etym: [L. structura, from struere, structum, to
arrange, build, construct; perhaps akin to E. strew: cf. F.
structure. Cf. Construe, Destroy, Instrument, Obstruct.]

1. The act of building; the practice of erecting buildings;
construction. [R.]
His son builds on, and never is content Till the last farthing is in
structure spent. J. Dryden, Jr.

2. Manner of building; form; make; construction.
Want of insight into the structure and constitution of the
terraqueous globe. Woodward.

3. Arrangement of parts, of organs, or of constituent particles, in a
substance or body; as, the structure of a rock or a mineral; the
structure of a sentence.
It [basalt] has often a prismatic structure. Dana.

4. (Biol.)

Defn: Manner of organization; the arrangement of the different
tissues or parts of animal and vegetable organisms; as, organic
structure, or the structure of animals and plants; cellular
structure.

5. That which is built; a building; esp., a building of some size or
magnificence; an edifice.
There stands a structure of majestic frame. Pope.
Columnar structure. See under Columnar.

STRUCTURED
Struc"tured, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Having a definite organic structure; showing differentiation of
parts.
The passage from a structureless state to a structured state is
itself a vital process. H. Spencer.

STRUCTURELESS
Struc"ture*less, a.

Defn: Without a definite structure, or arrangement of parts; without
organization; devoid of cells; homogeneous; as, a structureless
membrane.

STRUCTURIST
Struc"tur*ist, n.

Defn: One who forms structures; a builder; a constructor. [R.]

STRUDE
Strude, n.

Defn: A stock of breeding mares. [Written also strode.] [Obs.]
Bailey.

STRUGGLE
Strug"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Struggled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Struggling.] Etym: [OE. strogelen; cf. Icel. strj to stroke, to beat,
to flog, Sw. stryka to stroke, to strike, Dan. stryge, G. straucheln
to stumble. Cf. Stroll.]

1. To strive, or to make efforts, with a twisting, or with
contortions of the body.

2. To use great efforts; to labor hard; to strive; to contend
forcibly; as, to struggle to save one's life; to struggle with the
waves; to struggle with adversity.
The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated
it [Gettysburg] far above our power to add or detract. Lincoln.

3. To labor in pain or anguish; to be in agony; to labor in any kind
of difficulty or distress.
'T is wisdom to beware, And better shun the bait than struggle in the
snare. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To strive; contend; labor; endeavor.

STRUGGLE
Strug"gle, n.

1. A violent effort or efforts with contortions of the body; agony;
distress.

2. Great labor; forcible effort to obtain an object, or to avert an
evil. Macaulay.

3. Contest; contention; strife.
An honest might look upon the struggle with indifference. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Endeavor; effort; contest; labor; difficulty.

STRUGGLER
Strug"gler, n.

Defn: One who struggles.

STRULL
Strull, n.

Defn: A bar so placed as to resist weight.

STRUM
Strum, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Strummed; p. pr. & vb. n. Strumming.]
Etym: [Probably of imitative origin. Cf. Thrum.]

Defn: To play on an instrument of music, or as on an instrument, in
an unskillful or noisy way; to thrum; as, to strum a piano.

STRUMA
Stru"ma, n. Etym: [L., a scrofulous tumor.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Scrofula.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A cushionlike swelling on any organ; especially, that at the
base of the capsule in many mosses.

STRUMATIC
Stru*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Scrofulous; strumous.

STRUMOSE
Stru*mose", a. Etym: [L. strumosus: cf. F. strumeux.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Strumous.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a struma.

STRUMOUS
Stru"mous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Scrofulous; having struma.

STRUMOUSNESS
Stru"mous*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being strumous.

STRUMPET
Strum"pet, n. Etym: [OE. strumpet, strompet; cf. OF. stupe
debauchery, F. stupe, L. stuprare, stupratum, to debauch, stuprum
debauchery, Gael. & Ir. striopach a prostitute.]

Defn: A prostitute; a harlot. Shak.

STRUMPET
Strum"pet, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a strumpet; characteristic of a strumpet.
Out on thy more than strumpet impudence. B. Jonson.

STRUMPET
Strum"pet, v. t.

1. To debauch. [Obs.] Shak.

2. To dishonor with the reputation of being a strumpet; hence, to
belie; to slander.
With his untrue reports, strumpet your fame. Massinger.

STRUMSTRUM
Strum"strum, n.

Defn: A rude musical instrument somewhat like a cittern. [R.]
Dampier.

STRUNG
Strung,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of String.

STRUNT
Strunt, n.

Defn: Spirituous liquor. [Scot.] Burns.

STRUNTIAN
Strun"tian, n.

Defn: A kind of worsted braid, about an inch broad. [Scot.] Jamieson.

STRUSE
Struse, n. Etym: [Russ. strug'.] (Naut.)

Defn: A Russian river craft used for transporting freight.

STRUT
Strut, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strutted; p. pr. & vb. n. Strutting.]
Etym: [OE. struten, strouten, to swell; akin to G. strozen to be
swelled, to be puffed up, to strut, Dan. strutte.]

1. To swell; to bulge out. [R.]
The bellying canvas strutted with the gale. Dryden.

2. To walk with a lofty, proud gait, and erect head; to walk with
affected dignity.
Does he not hold up his head, . . . and strut in his gait Shak.

STRUT
Strut, n. Etym: [For senses 2 & 3 cf. LG. strutt rigid.]

1. The act of strutting; a pompous step or walk.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: In general, any piece of a frame which resists thrust or
pressure in the direction of its own length. See Brace, and Illust.
of Frame, and Roof.

3. (Engin.)

Defn: Any part of a machine or structure, of which the principal
function is to hold things apart; a brace subjected to compressive
stress; -- the opposite of stay, and tie.

STRUT
Strut, v. t.

Defn: To hold apart. Cf. Strut, n., 3.

STRUT
Strut, a.

Defn: Protuberant. [Obs.] Holland.

STRUTHIAN
Stru"thi*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Struthious.

STRUTHIO
Stru"thi*o, n.; pl. Struthiones. Etym: [L., an ostrich, fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of birds including the African ostriches.

STRUTHIOIDEA
Stru`thi*oi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Struthio, and -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Struthiones.

STRUTHIONES
Stru`thi*o"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Struthio.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A division, or order, of birds, including only the African
ostriches.
(b) In a wider sense, an extensive group of birds including the
ostriches, cassowaries, emus, moas, and allied birds incapable of
flight. In this sense it is equivalent to Ratitæ, or Dromæognathæ.

STRUTHIONINE
Stru`thi*o"nine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Struthious.

STRUTHIOUS
Stru"thi*ous, a. Etym: [L. struthius, strutheus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Struthiones, or Ostrich tribe.

STRUTTER
Strut"ter, n.

Defn: One who struts.

STRUTTING
Strut"ting, a. & n.

Defn: from Strut, v.
 -- Strut"ting*ly, adv.

STRUVITE
Struv"ite, n. Etym: [After the Russian minister Von Struve.] (Min.)

Defn: A crystalline mineral found in guano. It is a hydrous phosphate
of magnesia and ammonia.

STRYCHNIA
Strych"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Strychnine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Strychnine.

STRYCHNIC
Strych"nic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to strychnine; produced by strychnine; as,
strychnic compounds; strychnic poisoning; specifically (Chem.),

Defn: used to designate an acid, called also igasuric acid.

STRYCHNINE
Strych"nine, n. Etym: [L. strychnos a kind of nightshade, Gr.
strychnine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A very poisonous alkaloid resembling brucine, obtained from
various species of plants, especially from species of Loganiaceæ, as
from the seeds of the St. Ignatius bean (Strychnos Ignatia) and from
nux vomica. It is obtained as a white crystalline substance, having a
very bitter acrid taste, and is employed in medicine (chiefly in the
form of the sulphate) as a powerful neurotic stimulant. Called also
strychnia, and formerly strychnina.

STRYCHNOS
Strych"nos, n. Etym: [L., a kind of nightshade, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical trees and shrubs of the order Loganiaceæ.
See Nux vomica.

STRYPHNIC
Stryph"nic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid,
obtained by the action of acetic acid and potassium nitrite on uric
acid, as a yellow crystalline substance, with a bitter, astringent
taste.

STUB
Stub, n. Etym: [OE. stubbe, AS. stub, styb; akin to D. stobbe, LG.
stubbe, Dan. stub, Sw. stubbe, Icel. stubbr, stubbi; cf. Gr.

1. The stump of a tree; that part of a tree or plant which remains
fixed in the earth when the stem is cut down; -- applied especially
to the stump of a small tree, or shrub.
Stubs sharp and hideous to behold. Chaucer.
And prickly stubs instead of trees are found. Dryden.

2. A log; a block; a blockhead. [Obs.] Milton.

3. The short blunt part of anything after larger part has been broken
off or used up; hence, anything short and thick; as, the stub of a
pencil, candle, or cigar.

4. A part of a leaf in a check book, after a check is torn out, on
which the number, amount, and destination of the check are usually
recorded.

5. A pen with a short, blunt nib.

6. A stub nail; an old horseshoe nail; also, stub iron. Stub end
(Mach.), the enlarged end of a connecting rod, to which the strap is
fastened.
 -- Stub iron, iron made from stub nails, or old horseshoe nails, --
used in making gun barrels.
 -- Stub mortise (Carp.), a mortise passing only partly through the
timber in which it is formed.
 -- Stub nail, an old horseshoe nail; a nail broken off; also, a
short, thick nail.
 -- Stub short, or Stub shot (Lumber Manuf.), the part of the end of
a sawn log or plank which is beyond the place where the saw kerf
ends, and which retains the plank in connection with the log, until
it is split off.
 -- Stub twist, material for a gun barrel, made of a spirally welded
ribbon of steel and stub iron combined.

STUB
Stub, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stubbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stubbing.]

1. To grub up by the roots; to extirpate; as, to stub up edible
roots.
What stubbing, plowing, digging, and harrowing is to a piece of land.
Berkley.

2. To remove stubs from; as, to stub land.

3. To strike as the toes, against a stub, stone, or other fixed
object. [U. S.]

STUBBED
Stub"bed, a.

1. Reduced to a stub; short and thick, like something truncated;
blunt; obtuse.

2. Abounding in stubs; stubby.
A bit of stubbed ground, once a wood. R. Browning.

3. Not nice or delicate; hardy; rugged. "Stubbed, vulgar
constitutions." Berkley.

STUBBEDNESS
Stub"bed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stubbed.

STUBBINESS
Stub"bi*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being stubby.

STUBBLE
Stub"ble, n. Etym: [OE. stobil, stoble, OF. estouble, estuble, F.
étuele, LL. stupla, stupula, L. stipula stubble, stalk; cf. D. & G.
stopped, OHG. stupfila. Cf. Stipule.]

Defn: The stumps of wheat, rye, barley, oats, or buckwheat, left in
the ground; the part of the stalk left by the scythe or sickle.
"After the first crop is off, they plow in the wheast stubble."
Mortimer. Stubble goose (Zoöl.), the graylag goose. [Prov. Eng.]
Chaucer.
 -- Stubble rake, a rake with long teeth for gleaning in stubble.

STUBBLED
Stub"bled, a.

1. Covered with stubble.
A crow was strutting o'er the stubbled plain. Gay.

2. Stubbed; as, stubbled legs. [Obs.] Skelton.

STUBBLY
Stub"bly, a.

Defn: Covered with stubble; stubbled.

STUBBORN
Stub"born, a. Etym: [OE. stoburn, stiborn; probably fr. AS. styb a
stub. See Stub.]

Defn: Firm as a stub or stump; stiff; unbending; unyielding;
persistent; hence, unreasonably obstinate in will or opinion; not
yielding to reason or persuasion; refractory; harsh; -- said of
persons and things; as, stubborn wills; stubborn ore; a stubborn oak;
as stubborn as a mule. "Bow, stubborn knees." Shak. "Stubborn
attention and more than common application." Locke. "Stubborn
Stoics." Swift.
And I was young and full of ragerie [wantonness] Stubborn and strong,
and jolly as a pie. Chaucer.
These heretics be so stiff and stubborn. Sir T. More.
Your stubborn usage of the pope. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Obstinate; inflexible; obdurate; headstrong; stiff; hardy; firm;
refractory; intractable; rugged; contumacious; heady.
 -- Stubborn, Obstinate. Obstinate is used of either active or
passive persistence in one's views or conduct, in spite of the wishes
of others. Stubborn describes an extreme degree of passive obstinacy.
 -- Stub"born*ly, adv.
 -- Stub"born*ness, n.