

SYNDYASMIAN
Syn`dy*as"mi*an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the state of pairing together sexually; -- said
of animals during periods of procreation and while rearing their
offspring. Morgan.

SYNE
Syne, adv. Etym: [See Since.]

1. Afterwards; since; ago. [Obs. or Scot.] R. of Brunne.

2. Late, -- as opposed to soon.
[Each rogue] shall be discovered either soon or syne. W. Hamilton
(Life of Wallace).

SYNE
Syne, conj.

Defn: Since; seeing. [Scot.]

SYNECDOCHE
Syn*ec"do*che, n. Etym: [L. synecdoche, Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure or trope by which a part of a thing is put for the
whole (as, fifty sail for fifty ships), or the whole for a part (as,
the smiling year for spring), the species for the genus (as,
cutthroat for assassin), the genus for the species (as, a creature
for a man), the name of the material for the thing made, etc. Bain.

SYNECDOCHICAL
Syn`ec*doch"ic*al, a.

Defn: Expressed by synecdoche; implying a synecdoche.
Isis is used for Themesis by a synecdochical kind of speech, or by a
poetical liberty, in using one for another. Drayton.

SYNECDOCHICALLY
Syn`ec*doch"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By synecdoche.

SYNECHIA
Syn*e"chi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A disease of the eye, in which the iris adheres to the cornea
or to the capsule of the crystalline lens.

SYNECPHONESIS
Syn*ec`pho*ne"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A contraction of two syllables into one; synizesis.

SYNEDRAL
Syn*e"dral, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing on the angles of a stem, as the leaves in some species
of Selaginella.

SYNENTOGNATHI
Syn`en*tog"na*thi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of fishes, resembling the Physoclisti, without spines
in the dorsal, anal, and ventral fins. It includes the true flying
fishes.

SYNEPY
Syn"e*py, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: The interjunction, or joining, of words in uttering the clauses
of sentences.

SYNERESIS
Syn*er"e*sis, n.

Defn: Same as Synæresis.

SYNERGETIC
Syn`er*get"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Working together; coöperating; as, synergetic muscles.

SYNERGISM
Syn"er*gism, n. Etym: [See Synergetic.] (Theol.)

Defn: The doctrine or theory, attributed to Melanchthon, that in the
regeneration of a human soul there is a coöperation, or joint agency,
on the part both of God and of man.

SYNERGIST
Syn"er*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. synergiste.]

1. One who holds the doctrine of synergism.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy which has an action similar to that of another remedy,
and hence increases the efficiency of that remedy when combined with
it.

SYNERGISTIC
Syn`er*gis"tic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to synergism. "A synergistic view of
regeneration." Shedd.

2. Coöperating; synergetic.

SYNERGY
Syn"er*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. Synergetic.]

Defn: Combined action; especially (Med.),

Defn: the combined healty action of every organ of a particular
system; as, the digestive synergy.

Defn: An effect of the interaction of the actions of two agents such
that the result of the combined action is greater than expected as a
simple additive combination of the two agents acting separately. Also
synergism.

SYNESIS
Syn"e*sis, n. [Gr.  intelligence.] (Gram.)

Defn: A construction in which adherence to some element in the sense
causes a departure from strict syntax, as in "Philip went down to
Samaria and preached Christ unto them."

SYNGENESIA
Syn`ge*ne"si*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants in which the stamens are united by
the anthers.

SYNGENESIAN; SYNGENESIOUS
Syn`ge*ne"sian, Syn`ge*ne"sious, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the stamens united by the anthers; of or pertaining to
the Syngenesia.

SYNGENESIS
Syn*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Pref. syn- + genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: A theory of generation in which each germ is supposed to
contain the germs of all subsequent generations; -- the opposite of
epigenesis.

SYNGNATHI
Syng"na*thi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A suborder of lophobranch fishes which have an elongated snout
and lack the ventral and first dorsal fins. The pipefishes and sea
horses are examples.
 -- Syng"na*thous, a.

SYNGRAPH
Syn"graph, n. Etym: [L. syngrapha, Gr. (Law)

Defn: A writing signed by both or all the parties to a contract or
bond.

SYNIZESIS
Syn`i*ze"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: An obliteration of the pupil of the eye.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A contraction of two syllables into one; synecphonesis.

SYNNEOROSIS
Syn`neo*ro"sis, n.; pl. Synneuroses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Syndesmosis.

SYNOCHA
Syn"o*cha, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Synechia.] (Med.)

Defn: See Synochus. [Obs.]

SYNOCHAL
Syn"o*chal, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to synocha; like synocha. [Obs.]

SYNOCHUS
Syn"o*chus, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A continuous fever. [Obs.]

Note: Synocha and synochus were used as epithets of two distinct
types of fever, but in different senses at different periods. The
same disease is placed under synocha by one author, under synochus by
another. Quain.

SYNOCIL
Syn"o*cil, n. Etym: [Pref. syn- + cilium.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sense organ found in certain sponges. It consists of several
filaments, each of which arises from a single cell.

SYNOD
Syn"od, n. Etym: [L. synodus, Gr. sino, seno, F. synode, both from
the Latin.]

1. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: An ecclesiastic council or meeting to consult on church
matters.

Note: Synods are of four kinds: 1. General, or ecumenical, which are
compopsed of bishops from different nations; -- commonly called
general council. 2. National, composed of bishops of one nation only.
3. Provincial, in which the bishops of only one province meet; --
called also convocations. 4. Diocesan, a synod in which the bishop of
the diocese or his representative presides. Among Presbyterians, a
synod is composed of several adjoining presbyteries. The members are
the ministers and a ruling elder from each parish.

2. An assembly or council having civil authority; a legislative body.
It hath in solemn synods been decreed, Both by the Syracusians and
ourselves, To admit no traffic to our adverse towns. Shak.
Parent of gods and men, propitious Jove! And you, bright synod of the
powers above. Dryden.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: A conjunction of two or more of the heavenly bodies. [R.]
Milton.

SYNODAL
Syn"od*al, a. Etym: [L. synodalis: cf. F. synodal.]

Defn: Synodical. Milton.

SYNODAL
Syn"od*al, n.

1. (Ch. of Eng.)

Defn: A tribute in money formerly paid to the bishop or archdeacon,
at the time of his Easter visitation, by every parish priest, now
made to the ecclesiastical commissioners; a procuration.
Synodals are due, of common right, to the bishop only. Gibson.

2. A constitution made in a provincial or diocesan synod.

SYNODIC; SYNODICAL
Syn*od"ic, Syn*od"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. synodicus, Gr. synodique.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a synod; transacted in, or authorized by, a
synod; as, synodical proceedings or forms. "A synodical epistle." Bp.
Stillingfleet.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: Pertaining to conjunction, especially to the period between two
successive conjunctions; extending from one conjunction, as of the
moon or a planet with the sun, to the next; as, a synodical month
(see Lunar month, under Month); the synodical revolution of the moon
or a planet.

SYNODICALLY
Syn*od"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a synodical manner; in a synod; by the authority of a synod.
"Synodically agreed upon." R. Nelson.

SYNODIST
Syn"od*ist, n.

Defn: An adherent to a synod.
These synodists thought fit in Latin as yet to veil their decrees
from vulgar eyes. Fuller.

SYNOECIOUS
Syn*oe"cious, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having stamens and pistil in the same head, or, in mosses,
having antheridia and archegonia on the same receptacle.

SYNOMOCY
Syn*om"o*cy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Sworn brotherhood; a society in ancient Greece nearly
resembling a modern political club.

SYNONYM
Syn"o*nym, n.; pl. Synonyms (). Etym: [F. synonyme, L. synonyma, pl.
of synonymum, Gr. Synonymous.]

Defn: One of two or more words (commonly words of the same language)
which are equivalents of each other; one of two or more words which
have very nearly the same signification, and therefore may often be
used interchangeably. See under Synonymous. [Written also synonyme.]
All languages tend to clear themselves of synonyms as intellectual
culture advances, the superfluous words being taken up and
appropriated by new shades and combinations of thought evolved in the
progress of society. De Quincey.
His name has thus become, throughout all civilized countries, a
synonym for probity and philanthropy. Macaulay.
In popular literary acceptation, and as employed in special
dictionaries of such words, synonyms are words sufficiently alike in
general signification to be liable to be confounded, but yet so
different in special definition as to require to be distinguished. G.
P. Marsh.

SYNONYMA
Syn*on"y*ma, n. pl. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Synonyms. [Obs.] Fuller.

SYNONYMAL
Syn*on"y*mal, a.

Defn: Synonymous. [Obs.]

SYNONYMALLY
Syn*on"y*mal*ly, adv.

Defn: Synonymously. [Obs.]

SYNONYME
Syn"o*nyme, n.

Defn: Same as Synonym.

SYNONYMIC
Syn`o*nym"ic, n. Etym: [Cf. G. synonymik. See Synonymous.] (Gram.)

Defn: The science, or the scientific treatment, of synonymous words.

SYNONYMIC; SYNONYMICAL
Syn`o*nym"ic, Syn`o*nym"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to synonyms, or synonymic; synonymous.

SYNONYMICON
Syn`o*nym"i*con, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A dictionary of synonyms. C. J. Smith.

SYNONYMIST
Syn*on"y*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. synonymiste.]

Defn: One who collects or explains synonyms.

SYNONYMIZE
Syn*on"y*mize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Synonymized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Synonymizing.]

Defn: To express by a synonym or synonyms; to give the synonym or
synonyms corresponding to.
This word "fortis" we may synonymize after all these fashions: stout,
hardy, valiant, doughty, courageous, adventurous, brave, bold,
daring, intrepid. Camden.

SYNONYMOUS
Syn*on"y*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. Syn-, and Name.]

Defn: Having the character of a synonym; expressing the same thing;
conveying the same, or approximately the same, idea.
 -- Syn*on"y*mous*ly, adv.
These words consist of two propositions, which are not distinct in
sense, but one and the same thing variously expressed; for wisdom and
understanding are synonymous words here. Tillotson.

Syn.
 -- Identical; interchangeable.
 -- Synonymous, Identical. If no words are synonymous except those
which are identical in use and meaning, so that the one can in all
cases be substituted for the other, we have scarcely ten such words
in our language. But the term more properly denotes that the words in
question approach so near to each other, that, in many or most cases,
they can be used interchangeably. 1. Words may thus coincide in
certain connections, and so be interchanged, when they can not be
interchanged in other connections; thus we may speak either strength
of mind or of force of mind, but we say the force (not strength) of
gravitation. 2. Two words may differ slightly, but this difference
may be unimportant to the speaker's object, so that he may freely
interchange them; thus it makes but little difference, in most cases,
whether we speak of a man's having secured his object or having
attained his object. For these and other causes we have numerous
words which may, in many cases or connections, be used
interchangeably, and these are properly called synonyms. Synonymous
words "are words which, with great and essential resemblances of
meaning, have, at the same time, small, subordinate, and partial
differences, -- these differences being such as either originally and
on the ground of their etymology inhered in them; or differences
which they have by usage acquired in the eyes of all; or such as,
though nearly latent now, they are capable of receiving at the hands
of wise and discreet masters of the tongue. Synonyms are words of
like significance in the main, but with a certain unlikeness as
well." Trench.

SYNONYMY
Syn*on"y*my, n. Etym: [L. synonymia, Gr. synonymie.]

1. The quality of being synonymous; sameness of meaning.

2. A system of synonyms.

3. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which synonymous words are used to amplify a
discourse.

SYNOPSIS
Syn*op"sis, n.; pl. Synopses. Etym: [L., from Gr. optic.]

Defn: A general view, or a collection of heads or parts so arranged
as to exhibit a general view of the whole; an abstract or summary of
a discourse; a syllabus; a conspectus.
That the reader may see in one view the exactness of the method, as
well as force of the argument, I shall here draw up a short synopsis
of this epistle. Bp. Warburton.

Syn.
 -- Abridgment; compendium; epitome; abstract; summary; syllabus;
conspectus. See Abridgment.

SYNOPTIC; SYNOPTICAL
Syn*op"tic, Syn*op"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. synoptique. See Synopsis.]

Defn: Affording a general view of the whole, or of the principal
parts of a thing; as, a synoptic table; a synoptical statement of an
argument. "The synoptic Gospels." Alford.
 -- Syn*op"tic*al*ly, adv.

SYNOPTIC
Syn*op"tic, n.

Defn: One of the first three Gospels of the New Testament. See
Synoptist.

SYNOPTIST
Syn*op"tist, n.

Defn: Any one of the authors of the three synoptic Gospels, which
give a history of our Lord's life and ministry, in distinction from
the writer of John's Gospel, which gives a fuller record of his
teachings.

SYNOSTEOLOGY
Syn*os`te*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Pref. syn- + Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of joints; arthrology.

SYNOSTEOSIS
Syn*os`te*o"sis, n.; pl. Synosteoses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Union by means of bone; the complete closing up and
obliteration of sutures.

SYNOSTOSIS
Syn`os*to"sis, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Same as Synosteosis.

SYNOVIA
Syn*o"vi*a, n. Etym: [NL., perhaps fr. Gr. ovum egg: cf. F. synovie.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A transparent, viscid, lubricating fluid which contains mucin
and secreted by synovial membranes; synovial fluid.

SYNOVIAL
Syn*o"vi*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. synovial.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to synovia; secreting synovia. Synovial
capsule, a closed sac of synovial membrane situated between the
articular surfaces at diarthrodial joints.
 -- Synovial fluid, synovia.
 -- Synovial membrane, the dense and very smooth connective tissue
membrane which secretes synovia and surrounds synovial capsules and
other synovial cavities.

SYNOVITIS
Syn`o*vi"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Synovia, -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the synovial membrane.

SYNPELMOUS
Syn*pel"mous, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the two main flexor tendons of the toes blended
together.

SYNSEPALOUS
Syn*sep"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + sepal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having united sepals; gamosepalous.

SYNTACTIC; SYNTACTICAL
Syn*tac"tic, Syn*tac"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. G. Syntax.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to syntax; according to the rules of syntax,
or construction.
 -- Syn*tac"tic*al*ly, adv.

SYNTAX
Syn"tax, n. Etym: [L. syntaxis, Gr. syntaxe. See Syn-, and Tactics.]

1. Connected system or order; union of things; a number of things
jointed together; organism. [Obs.]
They owe no other dependence to the first than what is common to the
whole syntax of beings. Glanvill.

2. That part of grammar which treats of the construction of
sentences; the due arrangement of words in sentences in their
necessary relations, according to established usage in any language.

SYNTAXIS
Syn*tax"is, n.

Defn: Syntax. [R.] B. Jonson.

SYNTERESIS
Syn`te*re"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: Prophylaxis. [Obs.]

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: Conscience viewed as the internal repository of the laws of
duty. Whewell.

SYNTERETIC
Syn`te*ret"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Preserving health; prophylactic. [Obs.]

SYNTERETICS
Syn`te*ret"ics, n. (Med.)

Defn: That department of medicine which relates to the preservation
of health; prophylaxis. [Obs.]

SYNTHERMAL
Syn*ther"mal, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + thermal.]

Defn: Having the same degree of heat.

SYNTHESIS
Syn"the*sis, n.; pl. Syntheses. Etym: [L., a mixture, properly, a
putting together, Gr. Thesis.]

1. Composition, or the putting of two or more things together, as in
compounding medicines.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The art or process of making a compound by putting the
ingredients together, as contrasted with analysis; thus, water is
made by synthesis from hydrogen and oxygen; hence, specifically, the
building up of complex compounds by special reactions, whereby their
component radicals are so grouped that the resulting substances are
identical in every respect with the natural articles when such occur;
thus, artificial alcohol, urea, indigo blue, alizarin, etc., are made
by synthesis.

3. (Logic)

Defn: The combination of separate elements of thought into a whole,
as of simple into complex conceptions, species into genera,
individual propositions into systems; -- the opposite of Ant:
analysis.
Analysis and synthesis, though commonly treated as two different
methods, are, if properly understood, only the two necessary parts of
the same method. Each is the relative and correlative of the other.
Sir W. Hamilton.

SYNTHESIST
Syn"the*sist, n.

Defn: One who employs synthesis, or who follows synthetic methods.

SYNTHESIZE
Syn"the*size, v. t.

1. To combine by synthesis; to unite.

2. To produce by synthesis; as, to synthesize albumin.

SYNTHETIC; SYNTHETICAL
Syn*thet"ic, Syn*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. synthétique.]

1. Of or pertaining to synthesis; consisting in synthesis or
composition; as, the synthetic method of reasoning, as opposed to
analytical.
Philosophers hasten too much from the analytic to the synthetic
method; that is, they draw general conclusions from too small a
number of particular observations and experiments. Bolingbroke.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Artificial. Cf. Synthesis, 2.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Comprising within itself structural or other characters which
are usually found only in two or more diverse groups; -- said of
species, genera, and higher groups. See the Note under Comprehensive,
3. Synthetic, or Synthetical language, an inflectional language, or
one characterized by grammatical endings; -- opposed to analytic
language. R. Morris.

SYNTHETICALLY
Syn*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a synthetic manner.

SYNTHETIZE
Syn"the*tize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: To combine; to unite in regular structure. [R.]

SYNTOMY
Syn"to*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Brevity; conciseness. [R.]

SYNTONIC
Syn*ton"ic, a. (Physics)

Defn: Of or pert. to syntony; specif., designating, or pert. to, a
system of wireless telegraphy in which the transmitting and receiving
apparatus are in syntony with, and only with, one another. --
Syn*ton"ic*al (#), a. --Syn*ton"ic*al*ly, adv.

SYNTONIN
Syn"to*nin, n. Etym: [Cf. Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A proteid substance (acid albumin) formed from the albuminous
matter of muscle by the action of dilute acids; -- formerly called
musculin. See Acid albumin, under Albumin.

SYNTONIZE
Syn"to*nize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -nized; p. pr. & vb. n. -nizing.]
[See Syntony.] (Physics)

Defn: To adjust or devise so as to emit or respond to electric
oscillations of a certain wave length; to tune; specif., to put (two
or more instruments or systems of wireless telegraphy) in syntony
with each other. -- Syn`to*ni*za"tion (#), n.

SYNTONIZER
Syn"to*niz`er, n. (Physics)

Defn: One that syntonizes; specif., a device consisting essentially
of a variable inductance coil and condenser with a pair of adjustable
spark balls, for attuning the time periods of antennæ in wireless
telegraphy (called also syntonizing coil).

SYNTONY
Syn"to*ny, n. [Cf. Gr.  agreement. See Syn-; Tone.] (Physics)

Defn: State of being adjusted to a certain wave length; agreement or
tuning between the time period of an apparatus emitting electric
oscillations and that of a receiving apparatus, esp. in wireless
telegraphy.

SYPHERING
Sy"pher*ing, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Carp.)

Defn: The lapping of chamfered edges of planks to make a smooth
surface, as for a bulkhead.

SYPHILIDE
Syph"i*lide, n. Etym: [F.] (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous eruption due to syphilis.

SYPHILIS
Syph"i*lis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Syphilus, the name of a shepherd in
the Latin poem of Fracastoro, "Syphilus, sive Morbus Gallicus," which
was published in 1530; Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The pox, or venereal disease; a chronic, specific, infectious
disease, usually communicated by sexual intercourse or by hereditary
transmission, and occurring in three stages known as primary,
secondary, and tertiary syphilis. See under Primary, Secondary, and
Tertiary.Treponema pallidum. Usu. tretable with penicillin or other
beta-lactam antibiotics.

SYPHILITIC
Syph`i*lit"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. syphilitique.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to syphilis; of the nature of syphilis;
affected with syphilis.
 -- n.

Defn: A syphilitic patient.

SYPHILITICALLY
Syph`i*lit"ic*al*ly, adv. (Med.)

Defn: In a syphilitic manner; with venereal disease.

SYPHILIZATION
Syph`i*li*za"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: Inoculation with the syphilitic virus, especially when employed
as a preventive measure, like vaccination.

SYPHILIZE
Syph"i*lize, v. t. (Med.)

Defn: To inoculate with syphilis.

SYPHILODERM
Syph"i*lo*derm, n. Etym: [See Syphilis, and Derm.] (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous affection due to syphilis.

SYPHILODERMATOUS
Syph`i*lo*der"ma*tous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cutaneous manifestations of syphilis.

SYPHILOID
Syph"i*loid, a. Etym: [Syphilis + -oid.] (Med.)

Defn: Resembling syphilis.

SYPHILOLOGIST
Syph`i*lol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in syphilology.

SYPHILOLOGY
Syph`i*lol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Syphilis + -logy.]

Defn: That branch of medicine which treats of syphilis.

SYPHON
Sy"phon, n.

Defn: See Syphon.

SYRACUSE
Syr"a*cuse, n.

Defn: A red wine of Italy.

SYREN
Sy"ren, n.

Defn: See Siren. [R.]

SYRIAC
Syr"i*ac, a. Etym: [L. Syriacus, from Syria: cf. F. syriaque.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Syria, or its language; as, the Syriac
version of the Pentateuch.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of Syria; especially, the ancient language of that
country.

SYRIACISM
Syr"i*a*cism, n.

Defn: A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism.

SYRIAN
Syr"i*an, a. Etym: [L. Syrius: cf. F. Syrien.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Syria; Syriac.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Syria.

SYRIANISM
Syr"i*an*ism, n.

Defn: A Syrian idiom, or a peculiarity of the Syrian language; a
Syriacism. Paley.

SYRIASM
Syr"i*asm, n.

Defn: A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism; a Syriacism. M. Stuart.
The Scripture Greek is observed to be full of Syriasms and Hebraisms.
Bp. Warburton.

SYRINGA
Sy*rin"ga, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Syringe.] (Bot.)
(a) A genus of plants; the lilac.
(b) The mock orange; -- popularly so called because its stems were
formerly used as pipestems.

SYRINGE
Syr"inge, n. Etym: [F. seringue (cf. Pr. siringua, Sp. jeringa, It.
sciringa, scilinga), fg. Gr. svar to sound, and E. swarum. Cf.
Syringa.]

Defn: A kind of small hand-pump for throwing a stream of liquid, or
for purposes of aspiration. It consists of a small cylindrical barrel
and piston, or a bulb of soft elastic material, with or without
valves, and with a nozzle which is sometimes at the end of a flexible
tube; -- used for injecting animal bodies, cleansing wounds, etc.
Garden syringe. See Garden.

SYRINGE
Syr"inge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Syringed; p. pr. & vb. n. Syringing.]

1. To inject by means of a syringe; as, to syringe warm water into a
vein.

2. To wash and clean by injection from a syringe.

SYRINGEAL
Sy*rin"ge*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the syrinx; as, the syringeal muscle.

SYRINGIN
Sy*rin"gin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the bark of the lilac (Syringa) and
extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- formerly called also
lilacin.

SYRINGOCOELE
Sy*rin"go*coele, n. Etym: [Syrinx + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The central canal of the spinal cord. B. G. Wilder.

SYRINGOTOME
Sy*rin"go*tome, n. Etym: [Cf. F. syringotome. See Syringotomy.]
(Surg. & Anat.)

Defn: A small blunt-pointed bistoury, -- used in syringotomy.

SYRINGOTOMY
Syr`in*got"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. syringotomie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of cutting for anal fistula.

SYRINX
Syr"inx, n.; pl. Syringes. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A wind instrument made of reeds tied together; -- called also
pandean pipes.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The lower larynx in birds.

Note: In birds there are two laringes, an upper or true, but
voiceless, larynx in the usual position behind the tongue, and a
lower one, at or near the junction of the trachea and bronchi, which
is the true organ of the voice.

SYRMA
Syr"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class. Antiq.)

Defn: A long dress, trailing on the floor, worn by tragic actors in
Greek and Roman theaters.

SYRPHIAN
Syr"phi*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the syrphus flies.
 -- n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A syrphus fly.

SYRPHUS FLY
Syr"phus fly`. Etym: [NL. Syrphus, the generic name, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of dipterous flies of the genus
Syrphus and allied genera. They are usually bright-colored, with
yellow bands, and hover around plants. The larvæ feed upon plant
lice, and are, therefore, very beneficial to agriculture.

SYRT
Syrt, n. Etym: [L. syrtis a sand bank in the sea, Gr. syrte.]

Defn: A quicksand; a bog. [R.] Young.

SYRTIC
Syr"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a syrt; resembling syrt, or quicksand. [R.]
Ed. Rev.

SYRTIS
Syr"tis, n.; pl. Syrtes. Etym: [See Syrt.]

Defn: A quicksand.
Quenched in a boggy syrtis, neither sea Nor good dry land. Milton.

SYRUP; SYRUPY
Syr"up, n., Syr"up*y, a. Etym: [See Sirup.]

Defn: Same as Sirup, Sirupy.

SYSSARCOSIS
Sys`sar*co"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The junction of bones by intervening muscles.

SYSTALTIC
Sys*tal"tic, a. Etym: [L. systalticus drawing together, Gr.
Sustaltic, Systole.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Capable of, or taking place by, alternate contraction and
dilatation; as, the systaltic action of the heart.

SYSTASIS
Sys"ta*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. System.]

Defn: A political union, confederation, or league. [R.] Burke.

SYSTEM
Sys"tem, n. Etym: [L. systema, Gr. système. See Stand.]

1. An assemblage of objects arranged in regular subordination, or
after some distinct method, usually logical or scientific; a complete
whole of objects related by some common law, principle, or end; a
complete exhibition of essential principles or facts, arranged in a
rational dependence or connection; a regular union of principles or
parts forming one entire thing; as, a system of philosophy; a system
of government; a system of divinity; a system of botany or chemistry;
a military system; the solar system.
The best way to learn any science, is to begin with a regular system,
or a short and plain scheme of that science well drawn up into a
narrow compass. I. Watts.

2. Hence, the whole scheme of created things regarded as forming one
complete plan of whole; the universe. "The great system of the
world." Boyle.

3. Regular method or order; formal arrangement; plan; as, to have a
system in one's business.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: The collection of staves which form a full score. See Score, n.

5. (Biol.)

Defn: An assemblage of parts or organs, either in animal or plant,
essential to the performance of some particular function or functions
which as a rule are of greater complexity than those manifested by a
single organ; as, the capillary system, the muscular system, the
digestive system, etc.; hence, the whole body as a functional unity.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the stellate or irregular clusters of intimately united
zooids which are imbedded in, or scattered over, the surface of the
common tissue of many compound ascidians. Block system, Conservative
system, etc. See under Block, Conservative, etc.

SYSTEMATIC; SYSTEMATICAL
Sys`tem*at"ic, Sys`tem*at"ic*al, a. [Gr. systématique.]

1. Of or pertaining to system; consisting in system; methodical;
formed with regular connection and adaptation or subordination of
parts to each other, and to the design of the whole; as, a systematic
arrangement of plants or animals; a systematic course of study.
Now we deal much in essays, and unreasonably despise systematical
learning; whereas our fathers had a just value for regularity and
systems. I. Watts.
A representation of phenomena, in order to answer the purposes of
science, must be systematic. Whewell.

2. Proceeding according to system, or regular method; as, a
systematic writer; systematic benevolence.

3. Pertaining to the system of the world; cosmical.
These ends may be called cosmical, or systematical. Boyle.

4. (Med.)

Defn: Affecting successively the different parts of the system or set
of nervous fibres; as, systematic degeneration. Systematic theology.
See under Theology.

SYSTEMATICALLY
Sys`tem*at"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a systematic manner; methodically.

SYSTEMATISM
Sys"tem*a*tism, n.

Defn: The reduction of facts or principles to a system. Dunglison.

SYSTEMATIST
Sys"tem*a*tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. systématiste.]

1. One who forms a system, or reduces to system.

2. One who adheres to a system.

SYSTEMATIZATION
Sys`tem*a*ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. systématization.]

Defn: The act or operation of systematizing.

SYSTEMATIZE
Sys"tem*a*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Systematized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Systematizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. systématiser. Cf. Systemize.]

Defn: To reduce to system or regular method; to arrange methodically;
to methodize; as, to systematize a collection of plants or minerals;
to systematize one's work; to systematize one's ideas.
Diseases were healed, and buildings erected, before medicine and
architecture were systematized into arts. Harris.

SYSTEMATIZER
Sys"tem*a*ti`zer, n.

Defn: One who systematizes.
Aristotle may be called the systematizer of his master's doctrines.
Harris.

SYSTEMATOLOGY
Sys`tem*a*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The doctrine of, or a treatise upon, systems. Dunglison.

SYSTEMIC
Sys*tem"ic, a.

1. Of or relating to a system; common to a system; as, the systemic
circulation of the blood.

2. (Anat. & Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the general system, or the body as a whole;
as, systemic death, in distinction from local death; systemic
circulation, in distinction from pulmonic circulation; systemic
diseases. Systemic death. See the Note under Death, n., 1.

SYSTEMIZATION
Sys`tem*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of systematizing; systematization.

SYSTEMIZE
Sys"tem*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Systemized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Systemizing.] Etym: [Cf. Systematize.]

Defn: To reduce to system; to systematize.

SYSTEMIZER
Sys"tem*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who systemizes, or reduces to system; a systematizer.

SYSTEMLESS
Sys"tem*less, a.

1. Being without system.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Not agreeing with some artificial system of classification.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Not having any of the distinct systems or types of structure,
as the radiate, articulate, etc., characteristic of organic nature;
as, all unicellular organisms are systemless.

SYSTOLE
Sys"to*le, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Gram.)

Defn: The shortening of the long syllable.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The contraction of the heart and arteries by which the blood is
forced onward and the circulation kept up; -- correlative to
diastole.

SYSTOLIC
Sys*tol"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to systole, or contraction; contracting; esp.,
ralating to the systole of the heart; as, systolic murmur. Dunglison.

SYSTYLE
Sys"tyle, a. Etym: [L. systylos, Gr. systyle.] (Arch.)

Defn: Having a space equal to two diameters or four modules between
two columns; -- said of a portico or building. See Intercolumniation.
 -- n.

Defn: A systyle temple or other edifice.

SYTH; SYTHE
Syth, Sythe, prep., adv., conj. & n.

Defn: See Sith, Sithe. [Obs.] Chaucer. Piers Plowman.

SYTHE
Sythe, n.

Defn: Scythe. [Obs. or R.]

SYZYGIAL
Sy*zyg"i*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a syzygy.

SYZYGY
Syz"y*gy, n.; pl. Syzygies. Etym: [L. syzygia a joining together,
conjunction, Gr. syzygie. See Yoke, n.]

1. (Astron.)

Defn: The point of an orbit, as of the moon or a planet, at which it
is in conjunction or opposition; -- commonly used in the plural.

2. (Gr. & L. Pros.)

Defn: The coupling together of different feet; as, in Greek verse, an
iambic syzygy.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) Any one of the segments of an arm of a crinoid composed of two
joints so closely united that the line of union is obliterated on the
outer, though visible on the inner, side.
(b) The immovable union of two joints of a crinoidal arm. Line of
syzygies (Astron.), the straight line connecting the earth, the sun,
and the moon or a planet, when the latter is in conjunction or
opposition; -- used chiefly of the moon.

TA
Ta, v. t.

Defn: To take. [Obs. or Scot.]  Cursor Mundi.

 Used by Chaucer to represent a peculiarity of the Northern dialect.

TAAS
Taas, n.

Defn: A heap. See Tas. [Obs.]  Chaucer.

TAB
Tab, n. [Etymol. uncertain.]

1. The flap or latchet of a shoe fastened with a string or a buckle.

2. A tag. See Tag, 2.

3. A loop for pulling or lifting something.

4. A border of lace or other material, worn on the inner front edge
of ladies' bonnets.

5. A loose pendent part of a lady's garment; esp., one of a series of
pendent squares forming an edge or border.

TABACCO
Ta*bac"co, n.

Defn: Tobacco. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

TABANUS
Ta*ba"nus, n. [L., horsefly.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of blood sucking flies, including the horseflies.

TABARD
Tab"ard, n. [OE. tabard, tabart; cf. Sp. & Pg. tabardo, It. tabarro,
W. tabar, LGr. , LL. tabardum.]

Defn: A sort of tunic or mantle formerly worn for protection from the
weather. When worn over the armor it was commonly emblazoned with the
arms of the wearer, and from this the name was given to the garment
adopted for heralds. [Spelt also taberd.]

In a tabard he [the Plowman] rode upon a mare.
Chaucer.

TABARDER
Tab"ard*er, n.

1. One who wears a tabard.

2. A scholar on the foundation of Queen's College, Oxford, England,
whose original dress was a tabard. Nares.

TABARET
Tab"a*ret, n. [Cf. Tabby.]

Defn: A stout silk having satin stripes, -- used for furniture.

TABASCO SAUCE
Ta*bas"co sauce. [So named after Tabasco, a river and state of
Mexico.]

Defn: A kind of very pungent sauce made from red peppers.

TABASHEER
Tab`a*sheer", n. [Per. tabashir: cf. Skr. tvakkshira, tvakshira.]

Defn: A concretion in the joints of the bamboo, which consists
largely or chiefly of pure silica. It is highly valued in the East
Indies as a medicine for the cure of bilious vomitings, bloody flux,
piles, and various other diseases.

TABBINET
Tab"bi*net, n. [Cf. Tabby.]

Defn: A fabric like poplin, with a watered surface. [Written also
tabinet.]

TABEFACTION
Tab`e*fac"tion, n. [See Tabefy.]

Defn: A wasting away; a gradual losing of flesh by disease.

TABEFY
Tab"e*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tabefied; p. pr. & vb. n. Tabefying.]
[L. tabere to waste away + -fy: cf. L. tabefacere to melt.]

Defn: To cause to waste gradually, to emaciate. [R.]  Harvey.

TABELLION
Ta*bel"lion, n. [L. tabellio, fr. tabella a tablet, a writing,
document, dim. of tabula a board: cf. F. tabellion. See Table.]

Defn: A secretary or notary under the Roman empire; also, a similar
officer in France during the old monarchy.

TABER
Ta"ber, v. i.

Defn: Same as Tabor.  Nahum ii. 7.

TABERD
Tab"erd, n.

Defn: See Tabard.

TABERNACLE
Tab"er*na*cle, n. [F., fr. L. tabernaculum, dim. of taberna nut. See
Tabern.]

1. A slightly built or temporary habitation; especially, a tent.

Dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob.
Heb. xi. 9.

Orange trees planted in the ground, and secured in winter with a
wooden tabernacle and stoves.
Evelyn.

2. (Jewish Antiq.) A portable structure of wooden framework covered
with curtains, which was carried through the wilderness in the
Israelitish exodus, as a place of sacrifice and worship.  Ex. xxvi.

3. Hence, the Jewish temple; sometimes, any other place for worship.
Acts xv. 16.

4. Figuratively: The human body, as the temporary abode of the soul.

Shortly I must put off this my tabernacle.
2 Pet. i. 14.

5. Any small cell, or like place, in which some holy or precious
things was deposited or kept. Specifically: --

(a) The ornamental receptacle for the pyx, or for the consecrated
elements, whether a part of a building or movable.

(b) A niche for the image of a saint, or for any sacred painting or
sculpture.

(c) Hence, a work of art of sacred subject, having a partially
architectural character, as a solid frame resting on a bracket, or
the like.

(d) A tryptich for sacred imagery.

(e) A seat or stall in a choir, with its canopy.

6. (Naut.) A boxlike step for a mast with the after side open, so
that the mast can be lowered to pass under bridges, etc.

Feast of Tabernacles (Jewish Antiq.), one of the three principal
festivals of the Jews, lasting seven days, during which the people
dwelt in booths formed of the boughs of trees, in commemoration of
the habitation of their ancestors in similar dwellings during their
pilgrimage in the wilderness. -- Tabernacle work, rich canopy work
like that over the head of niches, used over seats or stalls, or over
sepulchral monuments. Oxf. Gloss.

TABERNACLE
Tab"er*na*cle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tabernacled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tabernacling.]

Defn: To dwell or reside for a time; to be temporary housed.

He assumed our nature, and tabernacled among us in the flesh.
Dr. J. Scott.

TABERNACULAR
Tab`er*nac"u*lar, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a tabernacle, especially the Jewish
tabernacle.

2. Formed in latticework; latticed.  T. Warton.

3. Of or pertaining to huts or booths; hence, common; low. "Horribly
tabernacular."  De Quincey.

TABES
Ta"bes (ta"bez), n. [L., a wasting disease.] (Med.)

Defn: Progressive emaciation of the body, accompanied with hectic
fever, with no well-marked local symptoms.

Tabes dorsalis (dôr*sa"lis) [NL., tabes of the back], locomotor
ataxia; -- sometimes called simply tabes. -- Tabes mesenterica [NL.,
mesenteric tabes], a wasting disease of childhood characterized by
chronic inflammation of the lymphatic glands of the mesentery,
attended with caseous degeneration.

TABESCENT
Ta*bes"cent, a. [L. tabescens wasting, p. pr. of tabescere.]

Defn: Withering, or wasting away.

TABETIC
Ta*bet"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to tabes; of the nature of tabes; affected
with tabes; tabid. -- n.

Defn: One affected with tabes.

TABID
Tab"id, a. [L. tabidus: cf. F. tabide. See Tabes.] (Med.)

Defn: Affected by tabes; tabetic.

In tabid persons, milk is the bset restorative.
Arbuthnot.

-- Tab"id*ly, adv. -- Tab"id*ness, n.

TABIFIC; TABIFICAL
Ta*bif"ic, Ta*bif"ic*al, a. [Tabes + L. facere to make.] (Med.)

Defn: Producing tabes; wasting; tabefying.

TABINET
Tab"inet, n.

Defn: See Tabbinet.  Thackeray.

TABLATURE
Tab"la*ture, n. [Cf. F. tablature ancient mode of musical notation.
See Table.]

1. (Paint.) A painting on a wall or ceiling; a single piece
comprehended in one view, and formed according to one design; hence,
a picture in general.  Shaftesbury.

2. (Mus.) An ancient mode of indicating musical sounds by letters and
other signs instead of by notes.

The chimes of bells are so rarely managed that I went up to that of
Sir Nicholas, where I found who played all sorts of compositions from
the tablature before him as if he had fingered an organ.
Evelyn.

3. (Anat.) Division into plates or tables with intervening spaces;
as, the tablature of the cranial bones.

TABLE
Ta"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tableed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tableing.]

1. To form into a table or catalogue; to tabulate; as, to table
fines.

2. To delineate, as on a table; to represent, as in a picture. [Obs.]
Tabled and pictured in the chambers of meditation. Bacon.

3. To supply with food; to feed. [Obs.] Milton.

4. (Carp.)

Defn: To insert, as one piece of timber into another, by alternate
scores or projections from the middle, to prevent slipping; to scarf.

5. To lay or place on a table, as money. Carlyle.

6. In parliamentary usage, to lay on the table; to postpone, by a
formal vote, the consideration of (a bill, motion, or the like) till
called for, or indefinitely.

7. To enter upon the docket; as, to table charges against some one.

8. (Naut.)

Defn: To make board hems in the skirts and bottoms of (sails) in
order to strengthen them in the part attached to the boltrope.

TABLE
Ta"ble, v. i.

Defn: To live at the table of another; to board; to eat. [Obs.] "He .
. . was driven from the society of men to table with the beasts."
South.

TABLEAU
Ta`bleau", n.; pl. Tableaux. Etym: [F., dim. fr. L. tabula a
painting. See Table.]

1. A striking and vivid representation; a picture.

2. A representation of some scene by means of persons grouped in the
proper manner, placed in appropriate postures, and remaining silent
and motionless.

TABLEAU VIVANT
Ta`bleau" vi`vant"; pl. Tableaux vivants. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Same as Tableau, n., 2.

TABLEBOOK
Ta"ble*book`, n.

Defn: A tablet; a notebook.
Put into your tablebook whatever you judge worthly. Dryden.

TABLECLOTH
Ta"ble*cloth`, n.

Defn: A cloth for covering a table, especially one with which a table
is covered before the dishes, etc., are set on for meals.

TABLE D'HOTE
Ta"ble d'hôte"; pl. Tables d'hôte. Etym: [F., literally, table of the
landlord.]

Defn: A common table for guests at a hotel; an ordinary.

TABLE-LAND
Ta"ble-land`, n.

Defn: A broad, level, elevated area of land; a plateau.
The toppling crags of Duty scaled, Are close upon the shining table-
lands To which our God himself is moon and sun. Tennyson.

TABLEMAN
Ta"ble*man, n.; pl. Tablemen (.

Defn: A man at draughts; a piece used in playing games at tables. See
Table, n., 10. [R.] Bacon.

TABLEMENT
Ta"ble*ment, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A table. [Obs.]
Tablements and chapters of pillars. Holland.

TABLER
Ta"bler, n.

1. One who boards. [Obs.]

2. One who boards others for hire. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

TABLESPOON
Ta"ble*spoon`, n.

Defn: A spoon of the largest size commonly used at the table; --
distinguished from teaspoon, dessert spoon, etc.

TABLESPOONFUL
Ta"ble*spoon`ful, n.; pl. Tablespoonfuls (.

Defn: As much as a tablespoon will hold; enough to fill a tablespoon.
It is usually reckoned as one half of a fluid ounce, or four fluid
drams.

TABLET
Ta"blet, n. Etym: [F. tablette, dim. of table. See Table.]

1. A small table or flat surface.

2. A flat piece of any material on which to write, paint, draw, or
engrave; also, such a piece containing an inscription or a picture.

3. Hence, a small picture; a miniature. [Obs.]

4. pl.

Defn: A kind of pocket memorandum book.

5. A flattish cake or piece; as, tablets of arsenic were formerly
worn as a preservative against the plague.

6. (Pharm.)

Defn: A solid kind of electuary or confection, commonly made of dry
ingredients with sugar, and usually formed into little flat squares;
-- called also lozenge, and troche, especially when of a round or
rounded form.

TABLEWARE
Ta"ble*ware`, n.

Defn: Ware, or articles collectively, for table use.

TABLE WORK
Table work. (Print.)

Defn: Typesetting of tabular nmatter, or the type matter set in
tabular form.

TABLING
Ta"bling, n.

1. A forming into tables; a setting down in order.

2. (Carp.)

Defn: The letting of one timber into another by alternate scores or
projections, as in shipbuilding.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A broad hem on the edge of a sail. Totten.

4. Board; support. [Obs.] Trence in English (1614).

5. Act of playing at tables. See Table, n., 10. [Obs.] Tabling house,
a gambling house. [Obs.] Northbrooke.

TABLOID
Tab"loid, n. [A table-mark.]

Defn: A compressed portion of one or more drugs or chemicals, or of
food, etc.

TABLOID
Tab"loid, a.

Defn: Compressed or condensed, as into a tabloid; administrated in or
as in tabloids, or small condensed bits; as, a tabloid form of
imparting information.

TABOO
Ta*boo", n.

Defn: A total prohibition of intercourse with, use of, or approach
to, a given person or thing under pain of death, -- an interdict of
religious origin and authority, formerly common in the islands of
Polynesia; interdiction. [Written also tabu.]

TABOO
Ta*boo", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tabooed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tabooing.]

Defn: To put under taboo; to forbid, or to forbid the use of; to
interdict approach to, or use of; as, to taboo the ground set apart
as a sanctuary for criminals. [Written also tabu.]

TABOR
Ta"bor, n. Etym: [OF. tabor, tabour, F. tambour; cf. Pr. tabor,
tanbor, Sp. & Pg. tambor, atambor, It. tamburo; all fr. Ar. & Per.
tamb a kind of lute, or giutar, or Per. tabir a drum. Cf. Tabouret,
Tambour.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small drum used as an accompaniment to a pipe or fife, both
being played by the same person. [Written also tabour, and taber.]

TABOR
Ta"bor, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tabored; p. pr. & vb. n. Taboring.] Etym:
[Cf. OF. taborer.] [Written also tabour.]

1. To play on a tabor, or little drum.

2. To strike lightly and frequently.

TABOR
Ta"bor, v. t.

Defn: To make (a sound) with a tabor.

TABORER
Ta"bor*er, n.

Defn: One who plays on the tabor. Shak.

TABORET
Tab"o*ret, n. Etym: [Dim. of tabor. Cf. Tabret.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small tabor. [Written also tabouret.]

TABORINE
Tab"o*rine, n. Etym: [OF. tabourin, F. tambourin. See Tabor, and cf.
Tambourine.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small, shallow drum; a tabor.

TABORITE
Ta"bor*ite, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of certain Bohemian reformers who suffered persecution in
the fifteenth century; -- so called from Tabor, a hill or fortress
where they encamped during a part of their struggles.

TABOUR
Ta"bour, n. & v.

Defn: See Tabor.

TABOURET
Tab"ou*ret, n. Etym: [F., dim. of OF. tabor, tabour, drum. See
Tabor.]

1. Same as Taboret.

2. A seat without arms or back, cushioned and stuffed: a high stool;
-- so called from its resemblance to a drum.

3. An embroidery frame. Knight. Right of the tabouret, the privilege
of sitting on a tabouret in the presence of the severeign, formerly
granted to certain ladies of high rank at the French court.

TABRERE
Tab"rere, n.

Defn: A taborer. [Obs.] Spenser.

TABRET
Tab"ret, n.

Defn: A taboret. Young.

TABU
Ta*bu", n. & v.

Defn: See Taboo.

TABULA
Tab"u*la, n.; pl. Tabulæ. Etym: [L.]

1. A table; a tablet.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the transverse plants found in the calicles of certain
corals and hydroids. Tabula rasa ( Etym: [L.], a smoothed tablet;
hence, figuratively, the mind in its earliest state, before receiving
impressions from without; -- a term used by Hobbes, Locke, and
others, in maintaining a theory opposed to the doctrine of innate
ideas.

TABULAR
Tab"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. tabularis, fr. tabula a board, table. See
Table.]

Defn: Having the form of, or pertaining to, a table (in any of the
uses of the word). Specifically: --
(a) Having a flat surface; as, a tabular rock.
(b) Formed into a succession of flakes; laminated.
Nodules . . . that are tabular and plated. Woodward.

(c) Set in squares. [R.]
(d) Arranged in a schedule; as, tabular statistics.
(e) Derived from, or computed by, the use of tables; as, tabular
right ascension. Tabular difference (Math.), the difference between
two consecutive numbers in a table, sometimes printed in its proper
place in the table.
 -- Tabular spar (Min.), wollastonite.

TABULARIZATION
Tab`u*lar*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of tabularizing, or the state of being tabularized;
formation into tables; tabulation.

TABULARIZE
Tab"u*lar*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tabularized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tabularizing.]

Defn: To tabulate.

TABULATA
Tab`u*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. tabulatus floored.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An artificial group of stony corals including those which have
transverse septa in the calicles. The genera Pocillopora and
Favosites are examples.

TABULATE
Tab"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tabulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tabulating.] Etym: [L. tabula a table. See Tabular.]

1. To form into a table or tables; to reduce to tables or synopses.
A philosophy is not worth the having, unless its results may be
tabulated, and put in figures. I. Taylor.

2. To shape with a flat surface.

TABULATION
Tab`u*la"tion, n.

Defn: The act of forming into a table or tables; as, the tabulation
of statistics.

TAC
Tac, n. Etym: [Cf. Tack, n., 4.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A kind of customary payment by a tenant; -- a word used in old
records. Cowell. Burrill.

TACAMAHAC; TACAMAHACA
Tac"a*ma*hac`, Tac`a*ma*ha"ca, n.

1. A bitter balsamic resin obtained from tropical American trees of
the genus Elaphrium (E. tomentosum and E. Tacamahaca), and also from
East Indian trees of the genus Calophyllum; also, the resinous
exhudation of the balsam poplar.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Any tree yielding tacamahac resin, especially, in North
America, the balsam poplar, or balm of Gilead (Populus balsamifera).

TACAUD
Ta*caud", n. Etym: [Cf. F. tacaud. See Tomcod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bib, or whiting pout. [Prov. Eng.]

TAC-AU-TAC
Tac`-au-tac", n. [F., fr. riposter du tac au tac to parry (where tac
imitates the sound made by the steel).] (Fencing)

Defn: The parry which is connected with a riposte; also, a series of
quick attacks and parries in which neither fencer gains a point.

TACE
Tace, n.

Defn: The cross, or church, of St. Antony. See Illust. (6), under
Cross, n. Mollett.

TACE
Tace, n.

Defn: See Tasse. Fairholt.

TACET
Ta"cet, v.impers. Etym: [L., it is silent, 3d pers.pr. of tacere to
be silent.] (Mus.)

Defn: It is silent; -- a direction for a vocal or instrumental part
to be silent during a whole movement.

TACHE
Tache, n. Etym: [See Tack a kind of nail.]

Defn: Something used for taking hold or holding; a catch; a loop; a
button. [Obs.] Ex. xxvi. 6.

TACHE
Tache, n. Etym: [F. tache spot. See Techy.]

Defn: A spot, stain, or blemish. [Obs.] Warner.

TACHHYDRITE
Tach*hy"drite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous chloride of calcium and magnesium occurring in
yellowish masses which rapidly deliquesce upon exposure. It is found
in the salt mines at Stassfurt.

TACHINA
Tach"i*na, n.; pl. Tachinæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of Diptera belonging to Tachina and
allied genera. Their larvæ are external parasites of other insects.

TACHISTOSCOPE
Ta*chis"to*scope, n. [Gr. , superl. of  swift + -scope.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An apparatus for exposing briefly to view a screen bearing
letters or figures. It is used in studying the range of attention, or
the power of distinguishing separate objects in a single impression.

TACHOGRAPH
Tach"o*graph, n. [Gr.  speed + -graph.]

Defn: A recording or registering tachometer; also, its autographic
record.

TACHOMETER
Ta*chom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. tachomètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the velocity, or indicating changes
in the velocity, of a moving body or substance. Specifically: --
(a) An instrument for measuring the velocity of running water in a
river or canal, consisting of a wheel with inclined vanes, which is
turned by the current. The rotations of the wheel are recorded by
clockwork.
(b) An instrument for showing at any moment the speed of a revolving
shaft, consisting of a delicate revolving conical pendulum which is
driven by the shaft, and the action of which by change of speed moves
a pointer which indicates the speed on a graduated dial.
(c) (Physiol.) An instrument for measuring the velocity of the blood;
a hæmatachometer.

TACHOMETRY
Ta*chom"e*try, n.

Defn: Measurement by a tachometer; the science or use of tachometers.

TACHYDIDAXY
Tach"y*di*dax`y, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A short or rapid method of instructing. [R.]

TACHYGLOSSA
Tach`y*glos"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of monotremes which comprises the spiny ant-eaters
of Australia and New Guinea. See Illust. under Echidna.

TACHYGRAPH
Tach"y*graph, n.

Defn: An example of tachygraphy; esp., an ancient Greek or Roman
tachygraphic manuscript.

TACHYGRAPHER
Ta*chyg"ra*pher, n. [Gr.  a fast writer.]

Defn: One who writes shorthand; a stenographer; esp., an ancient
Greek or Roman notary.

TACHYGRAPHIC; TACHYGRAPHICAL
Tach`y*graph"ic, Tach`y*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
tachygraphique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to tachygraphy; written in shorthand.

TACHYGRAPHY
Ta*chyg"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy: cf. F. tachygraphie.]

Defn: The art or practice of rapid writing; shorthand writing;
stenography. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).

TACHYLYTE
Tach"y*lyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A vitreous form of basalt; -- so called because decompposable
by acids and readily fusible.

TACHYMETER
Ta*chym"e*ter, n.  [Tachy- + -meter.]

1. (Surveying) An instrument, esp. a transit or theodolite with
stadia wires, for determining quickly the distances, bearings, and
elevations of distant objects.

2.  A speed indicator; a tachometer.

TACHYMETRY
Ta*chym"e*try, n.

Defn: The science or use of the tachymeter. -- Ta`chy*met"ric (#), a.

TACHYSCOPE
Tach"y*scope, n. [Gr.  quick + -scope.]

Defn: An early form of antimated-picture machine, devised in 1889 by
Otto Anschütz of Berlin, in which the chronophotographs were mounted
upon the periphery of a rotating wheel.

TACIT
Tac"it, a. Etym: [L. tacitus, p.p. of tacere to be silent, to pass
over in silence; akin to Goth. to be silent, Icel. , OHG. dagen: cf.
F. tacite. Cf. Reticent.]

Defn: Done or made in silence; implied, but not expressed; silent;
as, tacit consent is consent by silence, or by not interposing an
objection.
 -- Tac"it*ly, adv.
The tacit and secret theft of abusing our brother in civil contracts.
Jer. Taylor.

TACITURN
Tac"i*turn, a. Etym: [L. taciturnus: cf. F. taciturne. See Tacit.]

Defn: Habitually silent; not given to converse; not apt to talk or
speak.
 -- Tac"i*turn*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Silent; reserved. Taciturn, Silent. Silent has reference to the
act; taciturn, to the habit. A man may be silent from circumstances;
he is taciturn from disposition. The loquacious man is at times
silent; one who is taciturn may now and then make an effort at
conversation.

TACITURNITY
Tac`i*tur"ni*ty, n. Etym: [L. taciturnitas: cf. F. taciturnité.]

Defn: Habilual silence, or reserve in speaking.
The cause of Addison's taciturnity was a natural diffidence in the
company of strangers. V. Knox.
The taciturnity and the short answers which gave so much offense.
Macaulay.

TACK
Tack, n. Etym: [From an old or dialectal form of F. tache. See
Techy.]

1. A stain; a tache. [Obs.]

2. Etym: [Cf. L. tactus.]

Defn: A peculiar flavor or taint; as, a musty tack. [Obs. or Colloq.]
Drayton.

TACK
Tack, n. Etym: [OE. tak, takke, a fastening; akin to D. tak a branch,
twig, G. zacke a twig, prong, spike, Dan. takke a tack, spike; cf.
also Sw. tagg prickle, point, Icel. tag a willow twig, Ir. taca a
peg, nail, fastening, Gael. tacaid, Armor. & Corn. tach; perhaps akin
to E. take. Cf. Attach, Attack, Detach, Tag an end, Zigzag.]

1. A small, short, sharp-pointed nail, usually having a broad, flat
head.

2. That which is attached; a supplement; an appendix. See Tack, v.
t., 3. Macaulay.
Some tacks had been made to money bills in King Charles's time. Bp.
Burnet.

3. (Naut.)
(a) A rope used to hold in place the foremost lower corners of the
courses when the vessel is closehauled (see Illust. of Ship); also, a
rope employed to pull the lower corner of a studding sail to the
boom.
(b) The part of a sail to which the tack is usually fastened; the
foremost lower corner of fore-and-aft sails, as of schooners (see
Illust. of Sail).
(c) The direction of a vessel in regard to the trim of her sails; as,
the starboard tack, or port tack; -- the former when she is
closehauled with the wind on her starboard side; hence, the run of a
vessel on one tack; also, a change of direction.

4. (Scots Law)

Defn: A contract by which the use of a thing is set, or let, for
hire; a lease. Burrill.

5. Confidence; reliance. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Tack of a flag
(Naut.), a line spliced into the eye at the foot of the hoist for
securing the flag to the halyards.
 -- Tack pins (Naut.), belaying pins; -- also called jack pins.
 -- To haul the tacks aboard (Naut.), to set the courses.
 -- To hold tack, to last or hold out. Milton.

TACK
Tack, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Tacking.] Etym:
[Cf. OD. tacken to touch, take, seize, fix, akin to E. take. See Tack
a small nail.]

1. To fasten or attach. "In hopes of getting some commendam tacked to
their sees." Swift.
And tacks the center to the sphere. Herbert.

2. Especially, to attach or secure in a slight or hasty manner, as by
stitching or nailing; as, to tack together the sheets of a book; to
tack one piece of cloth to another; to tack on a board or shingle; to
tack one piece of metal to another by drops of solder.

3. In parliamentary usage, to add (a supplement) to a bill; to
append; -- often with on or to. Macaulay.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: To change the direction of (a vessel) when sailing closehauled,
by putting the helm alee and shifting the tacks and sails so that she
will proceed to windward nearly at right angles to her former course.

Note: In tacking, a vessel is brought to point at first directly to
windward, and then so that the wind will blow against the other side.

TACK
Tack, v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: To change the direction of a vessel by shifting the position of
the helm and sails; also (as said of a vessel), to have her direction
changed through the shifting of the helm and sails. See Tack, v. t.,
4.
Monk, . . . when he wanted his ship to tack to larboard, moved the
mirth of his crew by calling out, "Wheel to the left." Macaulay.

TACKER
Tack"er, n.

Defn: One who tacks.

TACKET
Tack"et, n. Etym: [Dim. of tack a small nail.]

Defn: A small, broad-headed nail. [Scot.] Jamieson.

TACKEY
Tack"ey, a. & n.

Defn: See Tacky.

TACKING
Tack"ing, n. (Law)

Defn: A union of securities given at different times, all of which
must be redeemed before an intermediate purchaser can interpose his
claim. Bouvier.

Note: The doctrine of tacking is not recognized in American law.
Kent.

TACKLE
Tac"kle (; sometimes improperly pronounced , especially by seamen),
n. Etym: [OE. takel, akin to LG. & D. takel, Dan. takkel, Sw. tackel;
perhaps akin to E. taw, v.t., or to take.]

1. Apparatus for raising or lowering heavy weights, consisting of a
rope and pulley blocks; sometimes, the rope and attachments, as
distinct from the block.

2. Any instruments of action; an apparatus by which an object is
moved or operated; gear; as, fishing tackle, hunting tackle;
formerly, specifically, weapons. "She to her tackle fell." Hudibras.

Note: In Chaucer, it denotes usually an arrow or arrows.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The rigging and apparatus of a ship; also, any purchase where
more than one block is used. Fall and tackle. See the Note under
Pulley.
 -- Fishing tackle. See under Fishing, a.
 -- Ground tackle (Naut.), anchors, cables, etc.
 -- Gun tackle, the apparatus or appliances for hauling cannon in or
out.
 -- Tackle fall, the rope, or rather the end of the rope, of a
tackle, to which the power is applied.
 -- Tack tackle (Naut.), a small tackle to pull down the tacks of the
principal sails.
 -- Tackle board, Tackle post (Ropemaking), a board, frame, or post,
at the end of a ropewalk, for supporting the spindels, or whirls, for
twisting the yarns.

TACKLE
Tac"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tackled; p. pr. & vb. n. Tackling.]
Etym: [Cf. LG. takeln to equip. See Tackle, n.]

1. To supply with tackle. Beau. & Fl.

2. To fasten or attach, as with a tackle; to harness; as, to tackle a
horse into a coach or wagon. [Colloq.]

3. To seize; to lay hold of; to grapple; as, a wrestler tackles his
antagonist; a dog tackles the game.
The greatest poetess of our day has wasted her time and strength in
tackling windmills under conditions the most fitted to insure her
defeat. Dublin Univ. Mag.

Defn: To begin to deal with; as, to tackle the problem.

TACKLED
Tac"kled, a.

Defn: Made of ropes tacked together.
My man shall be with thee, And bring thee cords made like a tackled
stair. Shak.

TACKLING
Tac"kling, n. (Naut.)

1. Furniture of the masts and yards of a vessel, as cordage, sails,
etc.

2. Instruments of action; as, fishing tackling. Walton.

3. The straps and fixures adjusted to an animal, by which he draws a
carriage, or the like; harness.

TACKSMAN
Tacks"man, n.; pl. Tacksmen (. (Scots Law)

Defn: One who holds a tack or lease from another; a tenant, or
lessee. Sir W. Scott.
The tacksmen, who formed what may be called the "peerage" of the
little community, must be the captains. Macaulay.

TACKY
Tack"y, a. Etym: [Cf. Techy, Tack a spot.]

Defn: Sticky; adhesive; raw; -- said of paint, varnish, etc., when
not well dried. [U. S.]

TACONIC
Ta*con"ic, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, the series of rocks forming the
Taconic mountains in Western New England. They were once supposed to
be older than the Cambrian, but later proved to belong to the Lower
Silurian and Cambrian.

TACT
Tact, n. Etym: [L. tactus a touching, touch, fr. tangere, tactum, to
touch: cf. F. tact. See Tangent.]

1. The sense of touch; feeling.
Did you suppose that I could not make myself sensible to tact as well
as sight Southey.
Now, sight is a very refined tact. J. Le Conte.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The stroke in beating time.

3. Sensitive mental touch; peculiar skill or faculty; nice perception
or discernment; ready power of appreciating and doing what is
required by circumstances.
He had formed plans not inferior in grandeur and boldness to those of
Richelieu, and had carried them into effect with a tact and wariness
worthy of Mazarin. Macaulay.
A tact which surpassed the tact of her sex as much as the tact of her
sex surpassed the tact of ours. Macaulay.

TACTABLE
Tac"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being touched; tangible. [R.] "They [women] being
created to be both tractable and tactable." Massinger.

TACTFUL
Tact"ful, a.

Defn: Full of tact; characterized by a discerning sense of what is
right, proper, or judicious.

TACTIC; TACTICAL
Tac"tic, Tac"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. tactics.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the art of military and naval tactics.
 -- Tac"tic*al*ly, adv.

TACTIC
Tac"tic, n.

Defn: See Tactics.

TACTICIAN
Tac*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tacticien.]

Defn: One versed in tactics; hence, a skillful maneuverer; an adroit
manager.

TACTICS
Tac"tics, n. Etym: [Gr. tactique.]

1. The science and art of disposing military and naval forces in
order for battle, and performing military and naval evolutions. It is
divided into grand tactics, or the tactics of battles, and elementary
tactics, or the tactics of instruction.

2. Hence, any system or method of procedure.

TACTILE
Tac"tile, a. Etym: [L. tactilis, fr. tangere, tactum, to touch: cf.
F. tactile.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the organs, or the sense, of touch;
perceiving, or perceptible, by the touch; capable of being touched;
as, tactile corpuscles; tactile sensations. "Tactile sweets."
Beaumont. "Tactile qualities." Sir M. Hale. Tactile sense (Physiol.),
the sense of touch, or pressure sense. See Touch.
The delicacy of the tactile sense varies on different parts of the
skin; it is geatest on the forehead, temples and back of the forearm.
H. N. Martin.

TACTILITY
Tac*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tactilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being tactile; perceptibility by touch;
tangibleness.

TACTION
Tac"tion, n. Etym: [L. tactio, from tangere, tactum, to touch.]

Defn: The act of touching; touch; contact; tangency. "External
taction." Chesterfield.

TACTLESS
Tact"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of tact.

TACTUAL
Tac"tu*al, a. Etym: [See Tact.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sense, or the organs, of touch; derived
from touch.
In the lowest organisms we have a kind of tactual sense diffused over
the entire body. Tyndall.

TADPOLE
Tad"pole`, n. Etym: [OE. tadde toad (AS. tadie, tadige) + poll;
properly, a toad that is or seems all head. See Toad, and Poll.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The young aquatic larva of any amphibian. In this stage it
breathes by means of external or internal gills, is at first
destitute of legs, and has a finlike tail. Called also polliwig,
polliwog, porwiggle, or purwiggy.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hooded merganser. [Local, U.S.] Tadpole fish. (Zoöl.) See
Forkbeard (a).

TAEDIUM
Tæ"di*um, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: See Tedium.

TAEL
Tael, n. Etym: [Malay ta, a certain weight, probably fr. Hind. tola,
Skr. tula a balance, weight, tul to weigh.]

Defn: A denomination of money, in China, worth nearly six shillings
sterling, or about a dollar and forty cents; also, a weight of one
ounce and a third. [Written also tale.]

TAEN; TA'EN
Taen, or Ta'en,

Defn: p. p. of Ta, to take, or a contraction of Taken. [Poetic &
Scot.] Burns.

TAENIA
Tæ"ni*a, n.; pl. Tæniæ. Etym: [L., a ribbon, a tapeworm.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of intestinal worms which includes the common tapeworms
of man. See Tapeworm.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A band; a structural line; -- applied to several bands and
lines of nervous matter in the brain.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The fillet, or band, at the bottom of a Doric frieze,
separating it from the architrave.

TAENIACIDE; TENIACIDE
Tæ"ni*a*cide`, n. Also Te"ni*a*cide` . [Tænia + -cide.] (Med.)

Defn: A remedy to destroy tapeworms.

TAENIADA
Tæ*ni"a*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Tænioidea.

TAENIAFUGE; TENIAFUGE
Tæ"ni*a*fuge`, n. Also Te"ni*a*fuge`. [Tænia + L. fugare to drive
away.] (Med.)

Defn: A remedy to expel tapeworms.

TAENIASIS; TENIASIS
Tæ*ni"a*sis, n. Also Te*ni"a*sis. [NL. See Tænia.] (Med.)

Defn: Ill health due to tænia, or tapeworms.

TAENIATA
Tæ`ni*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. taenia a ribbon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Ctenophora including those which have a long,
ribbonlike body. The Venus's girdle is the most familiar example.

TAENIDIUM
Tæ*nid"i*um, n.; pl. Tænidia. Etym: [NL., dim. fr. L. taenia a
ribbon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The chitinous fiber forming the spiral thread of the tracheæ of
insects. See Illust. of Trachea.

TAENIOGLOSSA
Tæ`ni*o*glos"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive division of gastropod mollusks in which the
odontophore is long and narrow, and usually bears seven rows of
teeth. It includes a large number of families both marine and fresh-
water.

TAENIOGLOSSATE
Tæ`ni*o*glos"sate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Tænioglossa.

TAENIOID
Tæ"ni*oid, a. Etym: [Tænia + -oid.]

1. Ribbonlike; shaped like a ribbon.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to Tænia.

TAENIOIDEA
Tæ`ni*oi"de*a, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of cestode worms which comprises the tapeworms.
See Tapeworm.

TAENIOLA
Tæ*ni"o*la, n.; pl. Tæniolæ. Etym: [L., dim. of taenia a ribbon.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the radial partitions which separate the internal
cavities of certain medusæ.

TAENIOSOMI
Tæ`ni*o*so"mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of fishes remarkable for their long and compressed
form. The ribbon fishes are examples. See Ribbon fish, under Ribbon.

TAFFERER
Taf"fer*er, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Taffrail.

TAFFETA; TAFFETY
Taf"fe*ta, Taf"fe*ty, n. Etym: [F. taffetas, It. taffetà, from Per.
taftah, originally, twisted, woven, from taftan to twist, to spin.]

Defn: A fine, smooth stuff of silk, having usually the wavy luster
called watering. The term has also been applied to different kinds of
silk goods, from the 16th century to modern times.
Lined with taffeta and with sendal. Chaucer.

TAFFRAIL
Taff"rail, n. Etym: [D. tafereel a panel, picture, fr. tafel table,
fr. L. tabula. See Table.] (Naut.)

Defn: The upper part of a ship's stern, which is flat like a table on
the top, and sometimes ornamented with carved work; the rail around a
ship's stern. [Written also tafferel.]

TAFFY
Taf"fy, n. Etym: [Prov. E. taffy toffy.]

1. A kind of candy made of molasses or brown sugar boiled down and
poured out in shallow pans. [Written also, in England, toffy.]

2. Flattery; soft phrases. [Slang]

TAFIA
Taf"i*a, n. Etym: [Cf. F. & Sp. tafia, It. taffia; fr. Malay tafia a
spirit distilled from molasses. Cf. Ratafia.]

Defn: A variety of rum. [West Indies]

TAG
Tag, n. Etym: [Probably akin to tack a small nail; cf. Sw. tagg a
prickle, point, tooth.]

1. Any slight appendage, as to an article of dress; something slight
hanging loosely; specifically, a direction card, or label.

2. A metallic binding, tube, or point, at the end of a string, or
lace, to stiffen it.

3. The end, or catchword, of an actor's speech; cue.

4. Something mean and paltry; the rabble. [Obs.] Tag and rag, the
lowest sort; the rabble. Holinshed.

5. A sheep of the first year. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

Defn: A sale of usually used items (such as furniture, clothing,
household items or bric-a-brac), conducted by one or a small group of
individuals, at a location which is not a normal retail
establishment.

Note: Frequently it is held in the private home or in a yard attached
to a private home belonging to the seller. Similar to a yard sale or
garage sale. Compare flea market, where used items are sold by many
individuals in a place rented for the purpose.

TAG
Tag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Tagging.]

1. To fit with, or as with, a tag or tags.
He learned to make long-tagged thread laces. Macaulay.
His courteous host . . . Tags every sentence with some fawning word.
Dryden.

2. To join; to fasten; to attach. Bolingbroke.

3. To follow closely after; esp., to follow and touch in the game of
tag. See Tag, a play.

TAG
Tag, v. i.

Defn: To follow closely, as it were an appendage; -- often with
after; as, to tag after a person.

TAG
Tag, n. Etym: [From Tag, v.; cf. Tag, an end.]

Defn: A child's play in which one runs after and touches another, and
then runs away to avoid being touched.

TAGAL
Ta*gal", n.

1. One of a Malayan race, mainly of central Luzon, next to the
Visayans the most numerous of the native peoples of the Philippines.
Nearly all are Christians and many are highly educated.

2.  The language of the Tagals; Tagalog.

TAGALOG
Ta*ga"log, n.

1. (Ethnol.) Any member of a certain tribe which is one of the
leading and most civilized of those native of the Philippine Islands.

2.  The language of the Tagalogs. It belongs to the Malay family of
languages and is one of the most highly developed members of the
family.

TAGBELT
Tag"belt`, n. (Far.)

Defn: Same as Tagsore. [Obs.]

TAG DAY
Tag day.

Defn: A day on which contributions to some public or private charity
or fund are solicited promiscuously on the street, and tags given to
contributors to wear as an evidence of their having contributed. Such
solicitation is now subject to legal restriction in various places.

TAGGER
Tag"ger, n.

1. One who, or that which, appends or joins one thing to another.

2. That which is pointed like a tag.
Hedgehogs' or procupines' small taggers. Cotton.

3. pl.

Defn: Sheets of tin or other plate which run below the gauge. Knight.

4. A device for removing taglocks from sheep. Knight.

TAGLET
Tag"let, n.

Defn: A little tag.

TAGLIA
Tagl"ia, n. Etym: [It., a cutting, a pulley, from tagliare to cut.
See Tailor.] (Mech.)

Defn: A peculiar combination of pulleys. Brande & C.

TAGLIACOTAIN
Tagl`ia*co"tain, a. (Surg.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tagliacozzi, a Venetian surgeon; as, the
Tagliacotian operation, a method of rhinoplasty described by him.
[Also Taliacotian, and Tagliacozzian.]

TAGLIONI
Tagl*io"ni, n.

Defn: A kind of outer coat, or overcoat; -- said to be so named after
a celebrated Italian family of professional dancers.
He ought certainly to exchange his taglioni, or comfortable
greatcoat, for a cuirass of steel. Sir W. Scott.

TAGLOCK
Tag"lock`, n.

Defn: An entangled lock, as of hair or wool. Nares.

TAGNICATE
Tag"ni*cate, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The white-lipped peccary.

TAG-RAG
Tag"-rag`, n. & a. Etym: [See Tag an end, and Rag.]

Defn: The lowest class of people; the rabble. Cf. Rag, tag, and
bobtail, under Bobtail.
If the tag-rag people did not clap him and hiss him, I am no true
man. Shak.

TAGSORE
Tag"sore`, n. (Far.)

Defn: Adhesion of the tail of a sheep to the wool from excoriation
produced by contact with the feces; -- called also tagbelt. [Obs.]

TAGTAIL
Tag"tail`, n.

1. A worm which has its tail conspicuously colored.

2. A person who attaches himself to another against the will of the
latter; a hanger-on.

TAGUAN
Tag"u*an, n. Etym: [From the native name in the East Indies.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large flying squirrel (Pteromys petuarista). Its body becomes
two feet long, with a large bushy tail nearly as long.

TAGUICATI
Ta`gui*ca"ti, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The white-lipped peccary.

TAHA
Ta"ha, n.

Defn: The African rufous-necked weaver bird (Hyphantornis texor).

TAHALEB
Ta*ha"leb, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fox (Vulpes Niloticus) of Northern Africa.

TAHITIAN
Ta*hi"ti*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tahiti, an island in the Pacific Ocean.
 -- n.

Defn: A native inhabitant of Tahiti.

TAHR
Tahr, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Thar.

TAI
Tai, a.

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, the chief linguistic stock of
Indo-China, including the peoples of Siamese and Shan speech.

TAI
Tai, n.

Defn: A member of one of the tribes of the Tai stock.

The Tais first appeared in history in Yunnan, and from thence they
migrated into Upper Burma. The earliest swarms appear to have entered
that tract about two thousand years ago, and were small in number.
Census of India, 1901.

TAIL
Tail, n. Etym: [F. taille a cutting. See Entail, Tally.] (Law)

Defn: Limitation; abridgment. Burrill. Estate in tail, a limited,
abridged, or reduced fee; an estate limited to certain heirs, and
from which the other heirs are precluded; -- called also estate tail.
Blackstone.

TAIL
Tail, a. (Law)

Defn: Limited; abridged; reduced; curtailed; as, estate tail.

TAIL
Tail, n. Etym: [AS. tægel, tægl; akin to G. zagel, Icel. tagl, Sw.
tagel, Goth. tagl hair. *59.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The terminal, and usually flexible, posterior appendage of an
animal.

Note: The tail of mammals and reptiles contains a series of movable
vertebræ, and is covered with flesh and hairs or scales like those of
other parts of the body. The tail of existing birds consists of
several more or less consolidated vertebræ which supports a fanlike
group of quills to which the term tail is more particularly applied.
The tail of fishes consists of the tapering hind portion of the body
ending in a caudal fin. The term tail is sometimes applied to the
entire abdomen of a crustacean or insect, and sometimes to the
terminal piece or pygidium alone.

2. Any long, flexible terminal appendage; whatever resembles, in
shape or position, the tail of an animal, as a catkin.
Doretus writes a great praise of the distilled waters of those tails
that hang on willow trees. Harvey.

3. Hence, the back, last, lower, or inferior part of anything, -- as
opposed to the Ant: head, or the superior part.
The Lord will make thee the head, and not the tail. Deut. xxviii. 13.

4. A train or company of attendants; a retinue.
"Ah," said he, "if you saw but the chief with his tail on." Sir W.
Scott.

5. The side of a coin opposite to that which bears the head, effigy,
or date; the reverse; -- rarely used except in the expression "heads
or tails," employed when a coin is thrown up for the purpose of
deciding some point by its fall.

6. (Anat.)

Defn: The distal tendon of a muscle.

7. (Bot.)

Defn: A downy or feathery appendage to certain achens. It is formed
of the permanent elongated style.

8. (Surg.)
(a) A portion of an incision, at its beginning or end, which does not
go through the whole thickness of the skin, and is more painful than
a complete incision; -- called also tailing.
(b) One of the strips at the end of a bandage formed by splitting the
bandage one or more times.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: A rope spliced to the strap of a block, by which it may be
lashed to anything.

10. (Mus.)

Defn: The part of a note which runs perpendicularly upward or
downward from the head; the stem. Moore (Encyc. of Music).

11. pl.

Defn: Same as Tailing, 4.

12. (Arch.)

Defn: The bottom or lower portion of a member or part, as a slate or
tile.

13. pl. (Mining)

Defn: See Tailing, n., 5. Tail beam. (Arch.) Same as Tailpiece.
 -- Tail coverts (Zoöl.), the feathers which cover the bases of the
tail quills. They are sometimes much longer than the quills, and form
elegant plumes. Those above the quills are called the upper tail
coverts, and those below, the under tail coverts.
 -- Tail end, the latter end; the termination; as, the tail end of a
contest. [Colloq.] -- Tail joist. (Arch.) Same as Tailpiece.
 -- Tail of a comet (Astron.), a luminous train extending from the
nucleus or body, often to a great distance, and usually in a
direction opposite to the sun.
 -- Tail of a gale (Naut.), the latter part of it, when the wind has
greatly abated. Totten.
 -- Tail of a lock (on a canal), the lower end, or entrance into the
lower pond.
 -- Tail of the trenches (Fort.), the post where the besiegers begin
to break ground, and cover themselves from the fire of the place, in
advancing the lines of approach.
 -- Tail spindle, the spindle of the tailstock of a turning lathe; --
called also dead spindle.
 -- To turn tail, to run away; to flee.
Would she turn tail to the heron, and fly quite out another way; but
all was to return in a higher pitch. Sir P. Sidney.

TAIL
Tail, v. t.

1. To follow or hang to, like a tail; to be attached closely to, as
that which can not be evaded. [Obs.]
Nevertheless his bond of two thousand pounds, wherewith he was
tailed, continued uncanceled, and was called on the next Parliament.
Fuller.

2. To pull or draw by the tail. [R.] Hudibras. To tail in or on
(Arch.), to fasten by one of the ends into a wall or some other
support; as, to tail in a timber.

TAIL
Tail, v. i.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: To hold by the end; -- said of a timber when it rests upon a
wall or other support; -- with in or into.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To swing with the stern in a certain direction; -- said of a
vessel at anchor; as, this vessel tails down stream. Tail on. (Naut.)
See Tally on, under Tally.

TAILAGE
Tail"age, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: See Tallage.

TAIL-BAY
Tail"-bay`, n.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: One of the joists which rest one end on the wall and the other
on a girder; also, the space between a wall and the nearest girder of
a floor. Cf. Case-bay.

2. The part of a canal lock below the lower gates.

TAILBLOCK
Tail"block`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A block with a tail. See Tail, 9.

TAILBOARD
Tail"board`, n.

Defn: The board at the rear end of a cart or wagon, which can be
removed or let down, for convenience in loading or unloading.

TAILED
Tailed, a.

Defn: Having a tail; having (such) a tail or (so many) tails; --
chiefly used in composition; as, bobtailed, longtailed, etc.
Snouted and tailed like a boar. Grew.

TAILING
Tail"ing, n.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: The part of a projecting stone or brick inserted in a wall.
Gwilt.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: Same as Tail, n., 8 (a).

3. Sexual intercourse. [Obs.] Chaucer.

4. pl.

Defn: The lighter parts of grain separated from the seed threshing
and winnowing; chaff.

5. pl. (Mining)

Defn: The refuse part of stamped ore, thrown behind the tail of the
buddle or washing apparatus. It is dressed over again to secure
whatever metal may exist in it. Called also tails. Pryce.

TAILLE
Taille, n. Etym: [F. See Tally, Tailor.]

1. A tally; an account scored on a piece of wood. [Obs.]
Whether that he paid or took by taille. Chaucer.

2. (O. F. Law)

Defn: Any imposition levied by the king, or any other lord, upon his
subjects.
The taille, as it still subsists in France, may serve as an example
of those ancient tallages. It was a tax upon the profits of the
farmer, which they estimate by the stock that he has upon the farm.
A. Smith.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: The French name for the tenor voice or part; also, for the
tenor viol or viola.

TAILLESS
Tail"less, a.

Defn: Having no tail. H. Spencer.

TAILLIE
Tail"lie, n. (Scots Law)

Defn: Same as Tailzie.

TAILOR
Tai"lor, n. Etym: [OF. tailleor, F. tailleur, fr. OF. taillier, F.
tailler to cut, fr. L. talea a rod, stick, a cutting, layer for
planting. Cf. Detail, Entail, Retail, Tally, n.]

1. One whose occupation is to cut out and make men's garments; also,
one who cuts out and makes ladies' outer garments.
Well said, good woman's tailor . . . I would thou wert a man's
tailor. Shak.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) The mattowacca; -- called also tailor herring.
(b) The silversides.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The goldfish. [Prov. Eng.] Salt-water tailor (Zoöl.), the
bluefish. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett.
 -- Tailor bird (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small Asiatic
and East Indian singing birds belonging to Orthotomus, Prinia, and
allied genera. They are noted for the skill with which they sew
leaves together to form nests. The common Indian species are O.
longicauda, which has the back, scapulars, and upper tail coverts
yellowish green, and the under parts white; and the golden-headed
tailor bird (O. coronatus), which has the top of the head golden
yellow and the back and wings pale olive-green.

TAILOR
Tai"lor, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tailored; p. pr. & vb. n. Tailoring.]

Defn: To practice making men's clothes; to follow the business of a
tailor.
These tailoring artists for our lays Invent cramped rules. M. Green.

TAILORESS
Tai"lor*ess, n.

Defn: A female tailor.

TAILORING
Tai"lor*ing, adv.

Defn: The business or the work of a tailor or a tailoress.

TAILOR-MADE
Tai"lor-made`, a.

Defn: Made by a tailor or according to a tailor's fashion; -- said
specif. of women's garments made with certain closeness of fit,
simplicity of ornament, etc.

TAILPIECE
Tail"piece`, n.

1. A piece at the end; an appendage.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: One of the timbers which tail into a header, in floor framing.
See Illust. of Header.

3. (Print.)

Defn: An ornament placed at the bottom of a short page to fill up the
space, or at the end of a book. Savage.

4. A piece of ebony or other material attached to the lower end of a
violin or similar instrument, to which the strings are fastened.

TAILPIN
Tail"pin", n. (Mach.)

Defn: The center in the spindle of a turning lathe.

TAILRACE
Tail"race`, n.

1. See Race, n., 6.

2. (Mining)

Defn: The channel in which tailings, suspended in water, are
conducted away.

TAILSTOCK
Tail"stock`, n.

Defn: The sliding block or support, in a lathe, which carries the
dead spindle, or adjustable center. The headstock supports the live
spindle.

TAIL-WATER
Tail"-wa`ter, n.

Defn: Water in a tailrace.

TAILZIE
Tail"zie (-zî or -yî), n. Etym: [F. tailler to cut. See Tail a
limitation.] (Scots Law)

Defn: An entailment or deed whereby the legal course of succession is
cut off, and an arbitrary one substituted. [Written also tailzee.]

TAIN
Tain, n. Etym: [OE. tein, teyne; cf. Icel. teinn a twig, akin to AS.
tan, Goth. tains.]

Defn: Thin tin plate; also, tin foil for mirrors. Knight.

TAINT
Taint, n. Etym: [Cf. F. atteinte a blow, bit, stroke. See Attaint.]

1. A thrust with a lance, which fails of its intended effect. [Obs.]
This taint he followed with his sword drawn from a silver sheath.
Chapman.

2. An injury done to a lance in an encounter, without its being
broken; also, a breaking of a lance in an encounter in a dishonorable
or unscientific manner. [Obs.]

TAINT
Taint, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tainted; p. pr. & vb. n. Tainting.]

Defn: To thrust ineffectually with a lance. [Obs.]

TAINT
Taint, v. t.

1. To injure, as a lance, without breaking it; also, to break, as a
lance, but usually in an unknightly or unscientific manner. [Obs.]
Do not fear; I have A staff to taint, and bravely. Massinger.

2. To hit or touch lightly, in tilting. [Obs.]
They tainted each other on the helms and passed by. Ld. Berners.

TAINT
Taint, v. t. Etym: [F. teint, p.p. of teindre to dye, tinge, fr. L.
tingere, tinctum. See Tinge, and cf. Tint.]

1. To imbue or impregnate with something extraneous, especially with
something odious, noxious, or poisonous; hence, to corrupt; to
infect; to poison; as, putrid substance taint the air.

2. Fig.: To stain; to sully; to tarnish.
His unkindness may defeat my life, But never taint my love. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To contaminate; defile; pollute; corrupt; infect; disease;
vitiate; poison.

TAINT
Taint, v. i.

1. To be infected or corrupted; to be touched with something
corrupting.
I can not taint with fear. Shak.

2. To be affected with incipient putrefaction; as, meat soon taints
in warm weather.

TAINT
Taint, n.

1. Tincture; hue; color; tinge. [Obs.]

2. Infection; corruption; deprivation.
He had inherited from his parents a scrofulous taint, which it was
beyond the power of medicine to remove. Macaulay.

3. A blemish on reputation; stain; spot; disgrace.

TAINTLESS
Taint"less, a.

Defn: Free from taint or infection; pure.

TAINTLESSLY
Taint"less*ly, adv.

Defn: In a taintless manner.

TAINTURE
Tain"ture, n. Etym: [F. teinture. See Taint to stain, and cf.
Tincture.]

Defn: Taint; tinge; difilement; stain; spot. [R.] Shak.

TAINTWORM
Taint"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A destructive parasitic worm or insect larva.

TAIPING; TAEPING
Tai"ping", or Tae"ping", a. [Chin. t'aip'ing great peace.] (Chinese
Hist.)

Defn: Pertaining to or designating a dynasty with which one Hung-Siu-
Chuen, a half-religious, half-political enthusiast, attempted to
supplant the Manchu dynasty by the Taiping rebellion, incited by him
in 1850 and suppressed by General Gordon about 1864.

TAIRA
Tai"ra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Tayra.

TAIRN
Tairn, n.

Defn: See Tarn. Coleridge.

TAIT
Tait, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small nocturnal and arboreal Australian marsupial (Tarsipes
rostratus) about the size of a mouse. It has a long muzzle, a long
tongue, and very few teeth, and feeds upon honey and insects. Called
also noolbenger.

TAJACU; TAJASSU
Ta*jaç"u, Ta*jas"su, n. Etym: [Pg. tajaç\'a3, from Braz. tayaç\'a3 a
hog or swine.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common, or collared, peccary.

TAJ MAHAL
Taj Ma*hal" (täj ma*häl"). [Corruption of Per. Mumtaz-i-Mahsal, lit.,
the distinguished one of the palace, fr. Ar.]

Defn: A marble mausoleum built at Agra, India, by the Mogul Emperor
Shah Jahan, in memory of his favorite wife. In beauty of design and
rich decorative detail it is one of the best examples of Saracenic
architecture.

TAKE
Take, obs. p. p. of Take.

Defn: Taken. Chaucer.

TAKE
Take, v. t. [imp. Took; p. p. Takend; p. pr. & vb. n. Taking.] Etym:
[Icel. taka; akin to Sw. taga, Dan. tage, Goth. tekan to touch; of
uncertain origin.]

1. In an active sense; To lay hold of; to seize with the hands, or
otherwise; to grasp; to get into one's hold or possession; to
procure; to seize and carry away; to convey. Hence, specifically: --
(a) To obtain possession of by force or artifice; to get the custody
or control of; to reduce into subjection to one's power or will; to
capture; to seize; to make prisoner; as, to take am army, a city, or
a ship; also, to come upon or befall; to fasten on; to attack; to
seize; -- said of a disease, misfortune, or the like.
This man was taken of the Jews. Acts xxiii. 27.
Men in their loose, unguarded hours they take; Not that themselves
are wise, but others weak. Pope.
They that come abroad after these showers are commonly taken with
sickness. Bacon.
There he blasts the tree and takes the cattle And makes milch kine
yield blood. Shak.

(b) To gain or secure the interest or affection of; to captivate; to
engage; to interest; to charm.
Neither let her take thee with her eyelids. Prov. vi. 25.
Cleombroutus was so taken with this prospect, that he had no
patience. Wake.
I know not why, but there was a something in those half-seen
features, -- a charm in the very shadow that hung over their imagined
beauty, -- which took me more than all the outshining loveliness of
her companions. Moore.

(c) To make selection of; to choose; also, to turn to; to have
recourse to; as, to take the road to the right.
Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was
taken. 1 Sam. xiv. 42.
The violence of storming is the course which God is forced to take
for the destroying . . . of sinners. Hammond.

(d) To employ; to use; to occupy; hence, to demand; to require; as,
it takes so much cloth to make a coat.
This man always takes time . . . before he passes his judgments. I.
Watts.

(e) To form a likeness of; to copy; to delineate; to picture; as, to
take picture of a person.
Beauty alone could beauty take so right. Dryden.

(f) To draw; to deduce; to derive. [R.]
The firm belief of a future judgment is the most forcible motive to a
good life, because taken from this consideration of the most lasting
happiness and misery. Tillotson.

(g) To assume; to adopt; to acquire, as shape; to permit to one's
self; to indulge or engage in; to yield to; to have or feel; to enjoy
or experience, as rest, revenge, delight, shame; to form and adopt,
as a resolution; -- used in general senses, limited by a following
complement, in many idiomatic phrases; as, to take a resolution; I
take the liberty to say.
(h) To lead; to conduct; as, to take a child to church.
(i) To carry; to convey; to deliver to another; to hand over; as, he
took the book to the bindery.
He took me certain gold, I wot it well. Chaucer.

(k) To remove; to withdraw; to deduct; -- with from; as, to take the
breath from one; to take two from four.

2. In a somewhat passive sense, to receive; to bear; to endure; to
acknowledge; to accept. Specifically: --
(a) To accept, as something offered; to receive; not to refuse or
reject; to admit.
Ye shall take no satisfaction for the life of a murderer. Num. xxxv.
31.
Let not a widow be taken into the number under threescore. 1 Tim. v.
10.

(b) To receive as something to be eaten or dronk; to partake of; to
swallow; as, to take food or wine.
(c) Not to refuse or balk at; to undertake readily; to clear; as, to
take a hedge or fence.
(d) To bear without ill humor or resentment; to submit to; to
tolerate; to endure; as, to take a joke; he will take an affront from
no man.
(e) To admit, as, something presented to the mind; not to dispute; to
allow; to accept; to receive in thought; to entertain in opinion; to
understand; to interpret; to regard or look upon; to consider; to
suppose; as, to take a thing for granted; this I take to be man's
motive; to take men for spies.
You take me right. Bacon.
Charity, taken in its largest extent, is nothing else but the science
love of God and our neighbor. Wake.
[He] took that for virtue and affection which was nothing but vice in
a disguise. South.
You'd doubt his sex, and take him for a girl. Tate.

(f) To accept the word or offer of; to receive and accept; to bear;
to submit to; to enter into agreement with; -- used in general
senses; as, to take a form or shape.
I take thee at thy word. Rowe.
Yet thy moist clay is pliant to command; . . . Not take the mold.
Dryden.
To be taken aback, To take advantage of, To take air, etc. See under
Aback, Advantage, etc.
 -- To take aim, to direct the eye or weapon; to aim.
 -- To take along, to carry, lead, or convey.
 -- To take arms, to commence war or hostilities.
 -- To take away, to carry off; to remove; to cause deprivation of;
to do away with; as, a bill for taking away the votes of bishops. "By
your own law, I take your life away." Dryden.
 -- To take breath, to stop, as from labor, in order to breathe or
rest; to recruit or refresh one's self.
 -- To take care, to exercise care or vigilance; to be solicitous.
"Doth God take care for oxen" 1 Cor. ix. 9.
 -- To take care of, to have the charge or care of; to care for; to
superintend or oversee.
 -- To take down. (a) To reduce; to bring down, as from a high, or
higher, place; as, to take down a book; hence, to bring lower; to
depress; to abase or humble; as, to take down pride, or the proud. "I
never attempted to be impudent yet, that I was not taken down."
Goldsmith. (b) To swallow; as, to take down a potion. (c) To pull
down; to pull to pieces; as, to take down a house or a scaffold. (d)
To record; to write down; as, to take down a man's words at the time
he utters them.
 -- To take effect, To take fire. See under Effect, and Fire.
 -- To take ground to the right or to the left (Mil.), to extend the
line to the right or left; to move, as troops, to the right or left.
 -- To take heart, to gain confidence or courage; to be encouraged.
 -- To take heed, to be careful or cautious. "Take heed what doom
against yourself you give." Dryden.
 -- To take heed to, to attend with care, as, take heed to thy ways.
 -- To take hold of, to seize; to fix on.
 -- To take horse, to mount and ride a horse.
 -- To take in. (a) To inclose; to fence. (b) To encompass or
embrace; to comprise; to comprehend. (c) To draw into a smaller
compass; to contract; to brail or furl; as, to take in sail. (d) To
cheat; to circumvent; to gull; to deceive. [Colloq.] (e) To admit; to
receive; as, a leaky vessel will take in water. (f) To win by
conquest. [Obs.]
For now Troy's broad-wayed town He shall take in. Chapman.
(g) To receive into the mind or understanding. "Some bright genius
can take in a long train of propositions." I. Watts. (h) To receive
regularly, as a periodical work or newspaper; to take. [Eng.] -- To
take in hand. See under Hand.
 -- To take in vain, to employ or utter as in an oath. "Thou shalt
not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." Ex. xx. 7.
 -- To take issue. See under Issue.
 -- To take leave. See Leave, n., 2.
 -- To take a newspaper, magazine, or the like, to receive it
regularly, as on paying the price of subscription.
 -- To take notice, to observe, or to observe with particular
attention.
 -- To take notice of. See under Notice.
 -- To take oath, to swear with solemnity, or in a judicial manner.
 -- To take off. (a) To remove, as from the surface or outside; to
remove from the top of anything; as, to take off a load; to take off
one's hat. (b) To cut off; as, to take off the head, or a limb. (c)
To destroy; as, to take off life. (d) To remove; to invalidate; as,
to take off the force of an argument. (e) To withdraw; to call or
draw away. Locke. (f) To swallow; as, to take off a glass of wine.
(g) To purchase; to take in trade. "The Spaniards having no
commodities that we will take off." Locke. (h) To copy; to reproduce.
"Take off all their models in wood." Addison. (i) To imitate; to
mimic; to personate. (k) To find place for; to dispose of; as, more
scholars than preferments can take off. [R.] Bacon.
 -- To take on, to assume; to take upon one's self; as, to take on a
character or responsibility.
 -- To take one's own course, to act one's pleasure; to pursue the
measures of one's own choice.
 -- To take order for. See under Order.
 -- To take order with, to check; to hinder; to repress. [Obs.]
Bacon.
 -- To take orders. (a) To receive directions or commands. (b)
(Eccl.) To enter some grade of the ministry. See Order, n., 10.
 -- To take out. (a) To remove from within a place; to separate; to
deduct. (b) To draw out; to remove; to clear or cleanse from; as, to
take out a stain or spot from cloth. (c) To produce for one's self;
as, to take out a patent. (d) To put an end to; as, to take the
conceit out of a man. (e) To escort; as, to take out to dinner.
 -- To take over, to undertake; to take the management of. [Eng.]
Cross (Life of G. Eliot).
 -- To take part, to share; as, they take part in our rejoicing.
 -- To take part with, to unite with; to join with.
 -- To take place, root, sides, stock, etc. See under Place, Root,
Side, etc.
 -- To take the air. (a) (Falconry) To seek to escape by trying to
rise higher than the falcon; -- said of a bird. (b) See under Air.
 -- To take the field. (Mil.) See under Field.
 -- To take thought, to be concerned or anxious; to be solicitous.
Matt. vi. 25, 27.
 -- To take to heart. See under Heart.
 -- To take to task, to reprove; to censure.
 -- to take to the air, to take off. To take up. (a) To lift; to
raise. Hood. (b) To buy or borrow; as, to take up goods to a large
amount; to take up money at the bank. (c) To begin; as, to take up a
lamentation. Ezek. xix. 1. (d) To gather together; to bind up; to
fasten or to replace; as, to take up raveled stitches; specifically
(Surg.), to fasten with a ligature. (e) To engross; to employ; to
occupy or fill; as, to take up the time; to take up a great deal of
room. (f) To take permanently. "Arnobius asserts that men of the
finest parts . . . took up their rest in the Christian religion."
Addison. (g) To seize; to catch; to arrest; as, to take up a thief;
to take up vagabonds. (h) To admit; to believe; to receive. [Obs.]
The ancients took up experiments upon credit. Bacon.
(i) To answer by reproof; to reprimand; to berate.
One of his relations took him up roundly. L'Estrange.
(k) To begin where another left off; to keep up in continuous
succession.
Soon as the evening shades prevail, The moon takes up the wondrous
tale. Addison.
(l) To assume; to adopt as one's own; to carry on or manage; as, to
take up the quarrels of our neighbors; to take up current opinions.
"They take up our old trade of conquering." Dryden. (m) To comprise;
to include. "The noble poem of Palemon and Arcite . . . takes up
seven years." Dryden. (n) To receive, accept, or adopt for the
purpose of assisting; to espouse the cause of; to favor. Ps. xxvii.
10. (o) To collect; to exact, as a tax; to levy; as, to take up a
contribution. "Take up commodities upon our bills." Shak. (p) To pay
and receive; as, to take up a note at the bank. (q) (Mach.) To
remove, as by an adjustment of parts; as, to take up lost motion, as
in a bearing; also, to make tight, as by winding, or drawing; as, to
take up slack thread in sewing. (r) To make up; to compose; to
settle; as, to take up a quarrel. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- To take up arms. Same as To take arms, above.
 -- To take upon one's self. (a) To assume; to undertake; as, he
takes upon himself to assert that the fact is capable of proof. (b)
To appropriate to one's self; to allow to be imputed to, or inflicted
upon, one's self; as, to take upon one's self a punishment.
 -- To take up the gauntlet. See under Gauntlet.