

TAKE
Take, v. i.

1. To take hold; to fix upon anything; to have the natural or
intended effect; to accomplish a purpose; as, he was inoculated, but
the virus did not take. Shak.
When flame taketh and openeth, it giveth a noise. Bacon.
In impressions from mind to mind, the impression taketh, but is
overcome . . . before it work any manifest effect. Bacon.

2. To please; to gain reception; to succeed.
Each wit may praise it for his own dear sake, And hint he writ it, if
the thing should take. Addison.

3. To move or direct the course; to resort; to betake one's self; to
proceed; to go; -- usually with to; as, the fox, being hard pressed,
took to the hedge.

4. To admit of being pictured, as in a photograph; as, his face does
not take well. To take after. (a) To learn to follow; to copy; to
imitate; as, he takes after a good pattern. (b) To resemble; as, the
son takes after his father.
 -- To take in with, to resort to. [Obs.] Bacon.
 -- To take on, to be violently affected; to express grief or pain in
a violent manner.
 -- To take to. (a) To apply one's self to; to be fond of; to become
attached to; as, to take to evil practices. "If he does but take to
you, . . . you will contract a great friendship with him." Walpole.
(b) To resort to; to betake one's self to. "Men of learning, who take
to business, discharge it generally with greater honesty than men of
the world." Addison.
 -- To take up. (a) To stop. [Obs.] "Sinners at last take up and
settle in a contempt of religion." Tillotson. (b) To reform. [Obs.]
Locke.
 -- To take up with. (a) To be contended to receive; to receive
without opposition; to put up with; as, to take up with plain fare.
"In affairs which may have an extensive influence on our future
happiness, we should not take up with probabilities." I. Watts. (b)
To lodge with; to dwell with. [Obs.] L'Estrange.
 -- To take with, to please. Bacon.

TAKE
Take, n.

1. That which is taken; especially, the quantity of fish captured at
one haul or catch.

2. (Print.)

Defn: The quantity or copy given to a compositor at one time.

TAKE-IN
Take"-in`, n.

Defn: Imposition; fraud. [Colloq.]

TAKEN
Tak"en,

Defn: p. p. of Take.

TAKE-OFF
Take"-off`, n.

Defn: An imitation, especially in the way of caricature.

TAKER
Tak"er, n.

Defn: One who takes or receives; one who catches or apprehended.

TAKE-UP
Take"-up`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: That which takes up or tightens; specifically, a device in a
sewing machine for drawing up the slack thread as the needle rises,
in completing a stitch.

TAKING
Tak"ing, a.

1. Apt to take; alluring; attracting.
Subtile in making his temptations most taking. Fuller.

2. Infectious; contageous. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
 -- Tak"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Tak"ing*ness, n.

TAKING
Tak"ing, n.

1. The act of gaining possession; a seizing; seizure; apprehension.

2. Agitation; excitement; distress of mind. [Colloq.]
What a taking was he in, when your husband asked who was in the
basket! Shak.

3. Malign influence; infection. [Obs.] Shak.

TAKING-OFF
Tak"ing-off`, n.

Defn: Removal; murder. See To take off (c), under Take, v. t.
The deep damnation of his taking-off. Shak.

TALAPOIN
Tal"a*poin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small African monkey (Cercopithecus, or Miopithecus,
talapoin) -- called also melarhine.

TALARIA
Ta*la"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [L., from talaris pertaining to the ankles,
fr. talus ankle.] (Class. Myth.)

Defn: Small wings or winged shoes represented as fastened to the
ankles, -- chiefly used as an attribute of Mercury.

TALBOT
Tal"bot, n.

Defn: A sort of dog, noted for quick scent and eager pursuit of game.
[Obs.] Wase (1654).

Note: The figure of a dog is borne in the arms of the Talbot family,
whence, perhaps, the name.

TALBOTYPE
Tal"bo*type, n. (Photog.)

Defn: Same as Calotype.

TALC
Talc, n. Etym: [F. talc; cf. Sp. & It. talco, LL. talcus; all fr. Ar.
talq.] (Min.)

Defn: A soft mineral of a soapy feel and a greenish, whitish, or
grayish color, usually occurring in foliated masses. It is hydrous
silicate of magnesia. Steatite, or soapstone, is a compact granular
variety. Indurated talc, an impure, slaty talc, with a nearly compact
texture, and greater hardness than common talc; -- called also talc
slate.

TALCOSE; TALCOUS
Tal*cose", Talc"ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. talqueux.] (Min.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to talc; composed of, or resembling, talc.

TALCUM
Tal"cum, n. [NL.] (Min.)

Defn: Same as Talc.

TALE
Tale, n.

Defn: See Tael.

TALE
Tale, n. Etym: [AS. talu number, speech, narrative; akin to D. taal
speech, language, G. zahl number, OHG. zala, Icel. tal, tala, number,
speech, Sw. tal, Dan. tal number, tale speech, Goth. talzjan to
instruct. Cf. Tell, v. t., Toll a tax, also Talk, v. i.]

1. That which is told; an oral relation or recital; any rehearsal of
what has occured; narrative; discourse; statement; history; story.
"The tale of Troy divine." Milton. "In such manner rime is Dante's
tale." Chaucer.
We spend our years as a tale that is told. Ps. xc. 9.

2. A number told or counted off; a reckoning by count; an
enumeration; a count, in distinction from measure or weight; a number
reckoned or stated.
The ignorant, . . . who measure by tale, and not by weight. Hooker.
And every shepherd tells his tale, Under the hawthornn in the dale.
Milton.
In packing, they keep a just tale of the number. Carew.

3. (Law)

Defn: A count or declaration. [Obs.] To tell tale of, to make account
of. [Obs.]
Therefore little tale hath he told Of any dream, so holy was his
heart. Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Anecdote; story; fable; incident; memoir; relation; account;
legend; narrative.

TALE
Tale, v. i.

Defn: To tell stories. [Obs.] Chaucer. Gower.

TALEBEARER
Tale"bear`er, n.

Defn: One who officiously tells tales; one who impertinently or
maliciously communicates intelligence, scandal, etc., and makes
mischief.
Spies and talebearers, encouraged by her father, did their best to
inflame her resentment. Macaulay.

TALEBEARING
Tale"bear`ing, a.

Defn: Telling tales officiously.

TALEBEARING
Tale"bear`ing, n.

Defn: The act of informing officiously; communication of sectrts,
scandal, etc., maliciously.

TALED
Ta"led, n. (Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: A kind of quadrangular piece of cloth put on by the Jews when
repeating prayers in the synagogues. Crabb.

TALEFUL
Tale"ful, a.

Defn: Full of stories. [R.] Thomson.

TALEGALLA
Tal`e*gal"la, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Australian birds which includes the brush turkey.
See Brush turkey.

TALENT
Tal"ent, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. talentum a talent (in sense 1), Gr.
tolerare, tollere, to lift up, sustain, endure. See Thole, v. t.,
Tolerate.]

1. Among the ancient Greeks, a weight and a denomination of money
equal to 60 minæ or 6,000 drachmæ. The Attic talent, as a weight, was
about 57 lbs. avoirdupois; as a denomination of silver money, its
value was £243 15s. sterling, or about $1,180.
Rowing vessel whose burden does not exceed five hundred talents.
Jowett (Thucid.).

2. Among the Hebrews, a weight and denomination of money. For silver
it was equivalent to 3,000 shekels, and in weight was equal to about
93

3. Inclination; will; disposition; desire. [Obs.]
They rather counseled you to your talent than to your profit.
Chaucer.

4. Intellectual ability, natural or acquired; mental endowment or
capacity; skill in accomplishing; a special gift, particularly in
business, art, or the like; faculty; a use of the word probably
originating in the Scripture parable of the talents (Matt. xxv. 14-
30).
He is chiefly to be considered in his three different talents, as a
critic, a satirist, and a writer of odes. Dryden.
His talents, his accomplishments, his graceful manners, made him
generally popular. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Ability; faculty; gift; endowment. See Genius.

TALENTED
Tal"ent*ed, a.

Defn: Furnished with talents; possessing skill or talent; mentally
gifted. Abp. Abbot (1663).

Note: This word has been strongly objected to by Coleridge and some
other critics, but, as it would seem, upon not very good grounds, as
the use of talent or talents to signify mental ability, although at
first merely metaphorical, is now fully established, and talented, as
a formative, is just as analogical and legitimate as gifted, bigoted,
moneyed, landed, lilied, honeyed, and numerous other adjectives
having a participal form, but derived directly from nouns and not
from verbs.

TALES
Ta"les, n. Etym: [L., pl. of talis such (persons).] (Law) (a) pl.

Defn: Persons added to a jury, commonly from those in or about the
courthouse, to make up any deficiency in the number of jurors
regularly summoned, being like, or such as, the latter. Blount.
Blackstone. (b) syntactically sing.

Defn: The writ by which such persons are summoned. Tales book, a book
containing the names of such as are admitted of the tales. Blount.
Craig.
 -- Tales de circumstantibus Etym: [L.], such, or the like, from
those standing about.

TALESMAN
Tales"man, n.; pl. Talesmen (. (Law)

Defn: A person called to make up a deficiency in the number of jurors
when a tales is awarded. Wharton.

TALETELLER
Tale"tell`er, n.

Defn: One who tells tales or stories, especially in a mischievous or
officious manner; a talebearer; a telltale; a tattler.

TALEWISE
Tale"wise`, adv.

Defn: In a way of a tale or story.

TALIACOTIAN
Tal"ia*co`tian, a.

Defn: See Tagliacotian.

TALIATION
Tal`i*a"tion, n.

Defn: Retaliation. [Obs.]
Just heav'n this taliation did decree. Beaumont.

TALION
Ta"li*on, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. talio, perh. fr. talis such. Cf.
Retaliation.]

Defn: Retaliation. [R.] Holinshed.

TALIPES
Tal"i*pes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. talus an ankle + pes, pedis, a foot;
cf. L. talipedare to be weak in the feet, properly, to walk on the
ankles.] (Surg.)

Defn: The deformity called clubfoot. See Clubfoot.

Note: Several varieties are distinguished; as, Talipes varus, in
which the foot is drawn up and bent inward; T. valgus, in which the
foot is bent outward; T. equinus, in which the sole faces backward
and the patient walks upon the balls of the toes; and T. calcaneus
(called also talus), in which the sole faces forward and the patient
walks upon the heel.

TALIPOT
Tal"i*pot, n. Etym: [Hind. talpat the leaf of the tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A beautiful tropical palm tree (Corypha umbraculifera), a
native of Ceylon and the Malabar coast. It has a trunk sixty or
seventy feet high, bearing a crown of gigantic fan-shaped leaves
which are used as umbrellas and as fans in ceremonial processions,
and, when cut into strips, as a substitute for writing paper.

TALISMAN
Tal"is*man, n.; pl. Talismans. Etym: [Sp., from Ar. tilism, tilsam, a
magical image, pl. tilsaman, fr. Gr.

1. A magical figure cut or engraved under certain superstitious
observances of the configuration of the heavens, to which wonderful
effects are ascribed; the seal, figure, character, or image, of a
heavenly sign, constellation, or planet, engraved on a sympathetic
stone, or on a metal corresponding to the star, in order to receive
its influence.

2. Hence, something that produces extraordinary effects, esp. in
averting or repelling evil; an amulet; a charm; as, a talisman to
avert diseases. Swift.

TALISMANIC; TALISMANICAL
Tal`is*man"ic, Tal`is*man"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. talismanique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a talisman; having the properties of a
talisman, or preservative against evils by occult influence; magical.

TALK
Talk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Talked; p. pr. & vb. n. Talking.] Etym:
[Cf. LG. talk talk, gabble, Prov. G. talken to speak indistinctly; or
OD. tolken to interpret, MHG. tolkan to interpret, to tell, to speak
indistinctly, Dan. tolke to interpret, Sw. tolka, Icel. t to
interpret, t an interpreter, Lith. tulkas an interpreter, tulkanti,
tulkoti, to interpret, Russ. tolkovate to interpret, to talk about;
or perhaps fr. OE. talien to speak (see Tale, v. i. & n.).]

1. To utter words; esp., to converse familiarly; to speak, as in
familiar discourse, when two or more persons interchange thoughts.
I will buy with you, sell with you, talk with you, walk with you, and
so following, but I will not eat with you. Shak.

2. To confer; to reason; to consult.
Let me talk with thee of thy judgments. Jer. xii. 1.

3. To prate; to speak impertinently. [Colloq.] To talk of, to relate;
to tell; to give an account of; as, authors talk of the wonderful
remains of Palmyra. "The natural histories of Switzerland talk much
of the fall of these rocks, and the great damage done." Addison.
 -- To talk to, to advise or exhort, or to reprove gently; as, I will
talk to my son respecting his conduct. [Colloq.]

TALK
Talk, v. t.

1. To speak freely; to use for conversing or communicating; as, to
talk French.

2. To deliver in talking; to speak; to utter; to make a subject of
conversation; as, to talk nonsense; to talk politics.

3. To consume or spend in talking; -- often followed by away; as, to
talk away an evening.

4. To cause to be or become by talking. "They would talk themselves
mad." Shak. To talk over. (a) To talk about; to have conference
respecting; to deliberate upon; to discuss; as, to talk over a matter
or plan. (b) To change the mind or opinion of by talking; to
convince; as, to talk over an opponent.

TALK
Talk, n.

1. The act of talking; especially, familiar converse; mutual
discourse; that which is uttered, especially in familiar
conversation, or the mutual converse of two or more.
In various talk the instructive hours they passed. Pope.
Their talk, when it was not made up of nautical phrases, was too
commonly made up of oaths and curses. Macaulay.

2. Report; rumor; as, to hear talk of war.
I hear a talk up and down of raising our money. Locke.

3. Subject of discourse; as, his achievment is the talk of the town.

Syn.
 -- Conversation; colloquy; discourse; chat; dialogue; conference;
communication. See Conversation.

TALKATIVE
Talk"a*tive, a.

Defn: Given to much talking.

Syn.
 -- Garrulous; loquacious. See Garrulous.
 -- Talk"a*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Talk"a*tive*ness, n.

TALKER
Talk"er, n.

1. One who talks; especially, one who is noted for his power of
conversing readily or agreeably; a conversationist.
There probably were never four talkers more admirable in four
different ways than Johnson, Burke, Beauclerk, and Garrick. Macaulay.

2. A loquacious person, male or female; a prattler; a babbler; also,
a boaster; a braggart; -- used in contempt or reproach. Jer. Taylor.

TALKING
Talk"ing, a.

1. That talks; able to utter words; as, a talking parrot.

2. Given to talk; loquacious.
The hawthorn bush, with seats beneath the shade, For talking age and
whispering lovers made. Goldsmith.

TALL
Tall, a. [Compar. Taller; superl. Tallest.] Etym: [OE. tal seemly,
elegant, docile; of uncertain origin; cf. AS. un-tala, un-tale, bad,
Goth. untals indocile, disobedient, uninstructed, or W. & Corn. tal
high, Ir. talla meet, fit, proper, just.]

1. High in stature; having a considerable, or an unusual, extension
upward; long and comparatively slender; having the diameter or
lateral extent small in proportion to the height; as, a tall person,
tree, or mast.
Two of far nobler shape, erect and tall. Milton.

2. Brave; bold; courageous. [Obs.]
As tall a trencherman As e'er demolished a pye fortification.
Massinger.
His companions, being almost in despair of victory, were suddenly
recomforted by Sir William Stanley, which came to succors with three
thousand tall men. Grafton.

3. Fine; splendid; excellent; also, extravagant; excessive. [Obs. or
Slang] B. Jonson.

Syn.
 -- High; lofty.
 -- Tall, High, Lofty. High is the generic term, and is applied to
anything which is elevated or raised above another thing. Tall
specifically describes that which has a small diameter in proportion
to its height; hence, we speak of a tall man, a tall steeple, a tall
mast, etc., but not of a tall hill. Lofty has a special reference to
the expanse above us, and denotes an imposing height; as, a lofty
mountain; a lofty room. Tall is now properly applied only to physical
objects; high and lofty have a moral acceptation; as, high thought,
purpose, etc.; lofty aspirations; a lofty genius. Lofty is the
stronger word, and is usually coupled with the grand or admirable.

TALLAGE; TALLIAGE
Tal"lage, Tal"li*age, n. Etym: [F. taillage. See Taille, and cf.
Tailage.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A certain rate or tax paid by barons, knights, and inferior
tenants, toward the public expenses. [Written also tailage,
taillage.]

Note: When paid out of knight's fees, it was called scutage; when by
cities and burghs, tallage; when upon lands not held by military
tenure, hidage. Blackstone.

TALLAGE
Tal"lage, v. t.

Defn: To lay an impost upon; to cause to pay tallage.

TALLBOY
Tall"boy`, n.

1. A kind of long-stemmed wineglass or cup.

2.  A piece of household furniture common in the eighteenth century,
usually in two separate parts, with larger drawers above and smaller
ones below and raised on legs fifteen inches or more in height; --
called also highboy.

3.  A long sheet-metal pipe for a chimney top.

TALLIER
Tal"li*er, n.

Defn: One who keeps tally.

TALLIS
Tal"lis, n.

Defn: Same as Tallith.

TALLITH
Tal"lith, n. [NHeb. tallith.] (Jewish Costume)
 (a) An undergarment worn by orthodox Jews, covering the chest and
the upper part of the back. It has an opening for the head, and has
tassels, called zizith, on its four corners.
 (b) A tasseled shawl or scarf worn over the head or thrown round the
shoulders while at prayer.

TALLNESS
Tall"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tall; height of stature.

TALLOW
Tal"low, n. Etym: [OE. taluh, talugh; akin to OD. talgh, D. talk, G.,
Dan. and Sw. talg, Icel. tolgr, tolg, tolk; and perhaps to Goth.
tulgus firm.]

1. The suet or fat of animals of the sheep and ox kinds, separated
from membranous and fibrous matter by melting.

Note: The solid consistency of tallow is due to the large amount of
stearin it contains. See Fat.

2. The fat of some other animals, or the fat obtained from certain
plants, or from other sources, resembling the fat of animals of the
sheep and ox kinds. Tallow candle, a candle made of tallow.
 -- Tallow catch, a keech. See Keech. [Obs.] -- Tallow chandler, one
whose occupation is to make, or to sell, tallow candles.
 -- Tallow chandlery, the trade of a tallow chandler; also, the place
where his business is carried on.
 -- Tallow tree (Bot.), a tree (Stillingia sebifera) growing in
China, the seeds of which are covered with a substance which
resembles tallow and is applied to the same purposes.

TALLOW
Tal"low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tallowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tallowing.]

1. To grease or smear with tallow.

2. To cause to have a large quantity of tallow; to fatten; as, tallow
sheep.

TALLOWER
Tal"low*er, n.

Defn: An animal which produces tallow.

TALLOW-FACE
Tal"low-face`, n.

Defn: One who has a sickly, pale complexion. Shak.

TALLOW-FACED
Tal"low-faced`, a.

Defn: Having a sickly complexion; pale. Burton.

TALLOWING
Tal"low*ing, n.

Defn: The act, or art, of causing animals to produce tallow; also,
the property in animals of producing tallow.

TALLOWISH
Tal"low*ish, a.

Defn: Having the qualities of tallow.

TALLOWY
Tal"low*y, a.

Defn: Of the nature of tallow; resembling tallow; greasy.

TALLWOOD
Tall"wood`, n. Etym: [Cf. Tally.]

Defn: Firewood cut into billets of a certain length. [Obs.] [Eng.]

TALLY
Tal"ly, n.; pl. Tallies. Etym: [OE. taile, taille, F. taille a
cutting, cut tally, fr. tailler to cut, but influenced probably by
taillé, p.p. of tailler. See Tailor, and cf. Tail a limitation,
Taille, Tallage.]

1. Originally, a piece of wood on which notches or scores were cut,
as the marks of number; later, one of two books, sheets of paper,
etc., on which corresponding accounts were kept.

Note: In purshasing and selling, it was once customary for traders to
have two sticks, or one stick cleft into two parts, and to mark with
a score or notch, on each, the number or quantity of goods delivered,
-- the seller keeping one stick, and the purchaser the other. Before
the use of writing, this, or something like it, was the only method
of keeping accounts; and tallies were received as evidence in courts
of justice. In the English exchequer were tallies of loans, one part
being kept in the exchequer, the other being given to the creditor in
lieu of an obligation for money lent to government.

2. Hence, any account or score kept by notches or marks, whether on
wood or paper, or in a book; especially, one kept in duplicate.

3. One thing made to suit another; a match; a mate.
They were framed the tallies for each other. Dryden.

4. A notch, mark, or score made on or in a tally; as, to make or earn
a tally in a game.

5. A tally shop. See Tally shop, below. Tally shop, a shop at which
goods or articles are sold to customers on account, the account being
kept in corresponding books, one called the tally, kept by the buyer,
the other the counter tally, kept by the seller, and the payments
being made weekly or otherwise by agreement. The trade thus regulated
is called tally trade. Eng. Encyc.
 -- To strike tallies, to act in correspondence, or alike. [Obs.]
Fuller.

TALLY
Tal"ly, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tallied; p. pr. & vb. n. Tallying.] Etym:
[Cf. F. tialler to cut. See Tally, n.]

1. To score with correspondent notches; hence, to make to correspond;
to cause to fit or suit.
They are not so well tallied to the present juncture. Pope.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To check off, as parcels of freight going inboard or outboard.
W. C. Russell. Tally on (Naut.), to dovetail together.

TALLY
Tal"ly, v. i.

1. To be fitted; to suit; to correspond; to match.
I found pieces of tiles that exactly tallied with the channel.
Addison.
Your idea . . . tallies exactly with mine. Walpole.

2. To make a tally; to score; as, to tally in a game. Tally on
(Naut.), to man a rope for hauling, the men standing in a line or
tail.

TALLY
Tal"ly, adv. Etym: [See Tall, a.]

Defn: Stoutly; with spirit. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

TALLYHO
Tal"ly*ho`, interj. & n.

1. The huntsman's cry to incite or urge on his hounds.

2. A tallyho coach. Tallyho coach, a pleasure coach. See under Coach.

TALLYMAN
Tal"ly*man, n.; pl. Tallymen (.

1. One who keeps the tally, or marks the sticks.

2. One who keeps a tally shop, or conducts his business as tally
trade.

TALMA
Tal"ma, n.; pl. Talmas. Etym: [Prob. so called from Talma, a French
actor.]
(a) A kind of large cape, or short, full cloak, forming part of the
dress of ladies.
(b) A similar garment worn formerly by gentlemen.

TALMUD
Tal"mud, n. Etym: [Chald. talmud instruction, doctrine, fr. lamad to
learn, limmad to teach.]

Defn: The body of the Jewish civil and canonical law not comprised in
the Pentateuch.

Note: The Talmud consists of two parts, the Mishna, or text, and the
Gemara, or commentary. Sometimes, however, the name Talmud is
restricted, especially by Jewish writers, to the Gemara. There are
two Talmuds, the Palestinian, commonly, but incorrectly, called the
Talmud of Jerusalem, and the Babylonian Talmud. They contain the same
Mishna, but different Gemaras. The Babylonian Talmud is about three
times as large as the other, and is more highly esteemed by the Jews.

TALMUDIC; TALMUDICAL
Tal*mud"ic, Tal*mud"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. talmudique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Talmud; contained in the Talmud; as,
Talmudic Greek; Talmudical phrases. Lightfoot.

TALMUDISM
Tal"mud*ism, n. , n.

Defn: The teachings of the Talmud, or adherence to them.

TALMUDIST
Tal"mud*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. talmudiste.]

Defn: One versed in the Talmud; one who adheres to the teachings of
the Talmud.

TALMUDISTIC
Tal`mud*is"tic, a.

Defn: Resembling the Talmud; Talmudic.

TALON
Tal"on, n. Etym: [F., heel, spur, LL. talo, fr. L. talus the ankle,
heel.]

1. The claw of a predaceous bird or animal, especially the claw of a
bird of prey. Bacon.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of certain small prominences on the hind part of the face
of an elephant's tooth.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A kind of molding, concave at the bottom and convex at the top;
-- usually called an ogee.

Note: When the concave part is at the top, it is called an inverted
talon.

4. The shoulder of the bolt of a lock on which the key acts to shoot
the bolt. Knight.

TALOOK; TALUK
Ta*look", Ta*luk", n. Etym: [Ar. ta'lluq.]

Defn: A large estate; esp., one constituting a revenue district or
dependency the native proprietor of which is responsible for the
collection and payment of the public revenue due from it. [India]

TALOOKDAR; TALUKDAR
Ta*look"dar, Ta*luk"dar, n. Etym: [Hind., fr. Per. ta'lluqdar.]

Defn: A proprietor of a talook. [India]

TALPA
Tal"pa, n. Etym: [L., mole.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small insectivores including the common European
mole.

TALUS
Ta"lus, n.; pl. Tali. Etym: [L., the ankle, the ankle bone.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The astragalus.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A variety of clubfoot (Talipes calcaneus). See the Note under
Talipes.

TALUS
Ta"lus, n. Etym: [F.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A slope; the inclination of the face of a work.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: A sloping heap of fragments of rock lying at the foot of a
precipice.

TAMABILITY
Tam`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tamable; tamableness.

TAMABLE
Tam"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being tamed, subdued, or reclaimed from wildness or
savage ferociousness.
 -- Tam"a*ble*ness, n.

TAMALE
Ta*ma"le, n. [Written also tamal, tomale.] [Amer. Sp. tamal, of Mex.
origin.]

Defn: A Mexican dish made of crushed maize mixed with minced meat,
seasoned with red pepper, dipped in oil, and steamed.

TAMANDU
Ta*man"du, n. Etym: [Sp., from the native name: cf. F. tamandua.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small ant-eater (Tamandua tetradactyla) native of the
tropical parts of South America.

Note: It has five toes on the fore feet, an elongated snout, small
ears, and short woolly hair. Its tail is stout and hairy at the base,
tapering, and covered with minute scales, and is somewhat prehensile
at the end. Called also tamandua, little ant-bear, fourmilier, and
cagouare. The collared, or striped, tamandu (Tamandua bivittata) is
considered a distinct species by some writers, but by others is
regarded as only a variety.

TAMANOIR
Ta`ma*noir", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The ant-bear.

TAMARACK
Tam"a*rack, n. (Bot.)
(a) The American larch; also, the larch of Oregon and British
Columbia (Larix occidentalis). See Hackmatack, and Larch.
(b) The black pine (Pinus Murrayana) of Alaska, California, etc. It
is a small tree with fine-grained wood.

TAMARIC
Tam"a*ric, n. Etym: [L. tamarice. See Tamarisk.]

Defn: A shrub or tree supposed to be the tamarisk, or perhaps some
kind of heath. [Obs.]
He shall be like tamaric in the desert, and he shall not see when
good shall come. Jer. xvii. 6 (Douay version).

TAMARIN
Tam"a*rin, n. Etym: [From the native name in Cayenne.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small squirrel-like South
American monkeys of the genus Midas, especially M. ursulus.

TAMARIND
Tam"a*rind, n. Etym: [It. tamarindo, or Sp. tamarindo, or Pg.
tamarindo, tamarinho, from Ar. tamarhindi, literally, Indian date;
tamar a dried date + Hind India: cf. F. tamarin. Cf. Hindoo.] (Bot.)

1. A leguminous tree (Tamarindus Indica) cultivated both the Indies,
and the other tropical countries, for the sake of its shade, and for
its fruit. The trunk of the tree is lofty and large, with wide-
spreading branches; the flowers are in racemes at the ends of the
branches. The leaves are small and finely pinnated.

2. One of the preserved seed pods of the tamarind, which contain an
acid pulp, and are used medicinally and for preparing a pleasant
drink. Tamarind fish, a preparation of a variety of East Indian fish
with the acid pulp of the tamarind fruit.
 -- Velvet tamarind. (a) A West African leguminous tree (Codarium
acutifolium). (b) One of the small black velvety pods, which are used
for food in Sierra Leone.
 -- Wild tamarind (Bot.), a name given to certain trees somewhat
resembling the tamarind, as the Lysiloma latisiliqua of Southern
Florida, and the Pithecolobium filicifolium of the West Indies.

TAMARISK
Tam"a*risk, n. Etym: [L. tamariscus, also tamarix, tamarice, Skr.
tamala, tamalaka, a tree with a very dark bark; cf. tamas darkness:
cf. F. tamarisc, tamarix, tamaris.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any shrub or tree of the genus Tamarix, the species of which
are European and Asiatic. They have minute scalelike leaves, and
small flowers in spikes. An Arabian species (T. mannifera) is the
source of one kind of manna. Tamarisk salt tree, an East Indian tree
(Tamarix orientalis) which produces an incrustation of salt.

TAMBAC
Tam"bac, n. (Metal.)

Defn: See Tombac. [Obs.]

TAMBOUR
Tam"bour, n.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of small flat drum; a tambourine.

2. A small frame, commonly circular, and somewhat resembling a
tambourine, used for stretching, and firmly holding, a portion of
cloth that is to be embroidered; also, the embroidery done upon such
a frame; -- called also, in the latter sense, tambour work.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Drum, n., 2(d).

4. (Fort.)

Defn: A work usually in the form of a redan, to inclose a space
before a door or staircase, or at the gorge of a larger work. It is
arranged like a stockade.

5. (Physiol.)

Defn: A shallow metallic cup or drum, with a thin elastic membrane
supporting a writing lever. Two or more of these are connected by an
India rubber tube, and used to transmit and register the movements of
the pulse or of any pulsating artery.

TAMBOUR
Tam"bour, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tamboured; p. pr. & vb. n. Tambouring.]

Defn: To embroider on a tambour.

TAMBOURIN
Tam`bou`rin", n. Etym: [F. See Tambourine.]

1. A tambourine. [Obs.]

2. (Mus.)

Defn: An old Provençal dance of a lively character, common on the
stage.

TAMBOURINE
Tam`bour*ine", n. Etym: [F. tambourin; cf. It. tamburino. See
Tambour, and cf. Tamborine.]

Defn: A small drum, especially a shallow drum with only one skin,
played on with the hand, and having bells at the sides; a timbrel.

TAMBREET
Tam"breet, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The duck mole.

TAMBURIN
Tam`bu*rin", n.

Defn: See Tambourine. Spenser.

TAME
Tame, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. entamer to cut into, to broach.]

Defn: To broach or enter upon; to taste, as a liquor; to divide; to
distribute; to deal out. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
In the time of famine he is the Joseph of the country, and keeps the
poor from starving. Then he tameth his stacks of corn, which not his
covetousness, but providence, hath reserved for time of need. Fuller.

TAME
Tame, a. [Compar. Tamer; superl. Tamest.] Etym: [AS. tam; akin to D.
tam, G. zahm, OHG. zam, Dan. & Sw. tam, Icel. tamr, L. domare to
tame, Gr. dam to be tame, to tame, and perhaps to E. beteem. *61. Cf.
Adamant, Diamond, Dame, Daunt, Indomitable.]

1. Reduced from a state of native wildness and shyness; accustomed to
man; domesticated; domestic; as, a tame deer, a tame bird.

2. Crushed; subdued; depressed; spiritless.
Tame slaves of the laborious plow. Roscommon.

3. Deficient in spirit or animation; spiritless; dull; flat; insipid;
as, a tame poem; tame scenery.

Syn.
 -- Gentle; mild; meek. See Gentle.

TAME
Tame, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Taming.] Etym: [AS.
tamian, temian, akin to D. tammen, temmen, G. zähmen, OHG. zemmen,
Icel. temja, Goth. gatamjan. See Tame, a.]

1. To reduce from a wild to a domestic state; to make gentle and
familiar; to reclaim; to domesticate; as, to tame a wild beast.
They had not been tamed into submission, but baited into savegeness
and stubbornness. Macaulay.

2. To subdue; to conquer; to repress; as, to tame the pride or
passions of youth.

TAMEABLE
Tame"a*ble, a.

Defn: Tamable. Bp. Wilkins.

TAMELESS
Tame"less, a.

Defn: Incapable of being tamed; wild; untamed; untamable. Bp. Hall.
 -- Tame"less*ness, n.

TAMELY
Tame"ly, adv.

Defn: In a tame manner.

TAMENESS
Tame"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tame.

TAMER
Tam"er, n.

Defn: One who tames or subdues.

TAMIAS
Ta"mi*as, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ground squirrels, including the chipmunk.

TAMIL
Ta"mil, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Tamils, or to their language. [Written
also Tamul.]

TAMIL
Ta"mil, n. Etym: [Written also Tamul.]

1. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of a Dravidian race of men native of Northern Ceylon and
Southern India.

2. The Tamil language, the most important of the Dravidian languages.
See Dravidian, a.

TAMILIAN
Ta*mil"i*an, a. & n.

Defn: Tamil.

TAMINE; TAMINY
Tam"ine, Tam"i*ny, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tamis a sort of sieve. Cf.
Stamin, Temse.]

Defn: A kind of woolen cloth; tammy.

TAMIS
Tam"is, n. Etym: [F., a kind of sieve.]

1. A sieve, or strainer, made of a kind of woolen cloth.

2. The cloth itself; tammy. Tamis bird (Zoöl.), a Guinea fowl.

TAMKIN
Tam"kin, n.

Defn: A tampion. Johnson (Dict.).

TAMMY
Tam"my, n.; pl. Tammies (.

1. A kind of woolen, or woolen and cotton, cloth, often highly
glazed, -- used for curtains, sieves, strainers, etc.

2. A sieve, or strainer, made of this material; a tamis.

TAMP
Tamp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tamped; p. pr. & vb. n. Tamping.] Etym:
[Cf. F. tamponner to plug or stop. See Tampion.]

1. In blasting, to plug up with clay, earth, dry sand, sod, or other
material, as a hole bored in a rock, in order to prevent the force of
the explosion from being misdirected.

2. To drive in or down by frequent gentle strokes; as, to tamp earth
so as to make a smooth place.

TAMPAN
Tam"pan, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A venomous South African tick. Livingstone.

TAMPEON
Tam"pe*on, n.

Defn: See Tampion. Farrow.

TAMPER
Tamp"er, n.

1. One who tamps; specifically, one who prepares for blasting, by
filling the hole in which the charge is placed.

2. An instrument used in tamping; a tamping iron.

TAMPER
Tam"per, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tampered; p. pr. & vb. n. Tampering.]
Etym: [A corruption of temper.]

1. To meddle; to be busy; to try little experiments; as, to tamper
with a disease.
'T is dangerous tampering with a muse. Roscommon.

2. To meddle so as to alter, injure, or vitiate a thing.

3. To deal unfairly; to practice secretly; to use bribery.
Others tampered For Fleetwood, Desborough, and Lambert. Hudibras.

TAMPERER
Tam"per*er, n.

Defn: One who tampers; one who deals unfairly.

TAMPICO FIBER; TAMPICO FIBRE
Tam*pi"co fi"ber or; Tam*pi"co fi"bre.

Defn: A tough vegetable fiber used as a substitute for bristles in
making brushes. The piassava and the ixtle are both used under this
name.

TAMPING
Tamp"ing, n.

1. The act of one who tamps; specifically, the act of filling up a
hole in a rock, or the branch of a mine, for the purpose of blasting
the rock or exploding the mine.

2. The material used in tamping. See Tamp, v. t., 1. Tamping iron, an
iron rod for beating down the earthy substance in tamping for
blasting.

TAMPION
Tam"pi*on, n. Etym: [F. tampon, tapon, tape, of Dutch or German
origin. See Tap a pipe or plug, and cf. Tamp, Tampop, Tompion.]
[Written also tampeon, and tompion.]

1. A wooden stopper, or plug, as for a cannon or other piece of
ordnance, when not in use.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A plug for upper end of an organ pipe.

TAMPOE
Tam"poe, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The edible fruit of an East Indian tree (Baccaurea Malayana) of
the Spurge family. It somewhat resembles an apple.

TAMPON
Tam"pon, n. Etym: [F. See Tampion.] (Surg.)

Defn: A plug introduced into a natural or artificial cavity of the
body in order to arrest hemorrhage, or for the application of
medicine.

TAMPON
Tam"pon, v. t. (Surg.)

Defn: To plug with a tampon.

TAMPOON
Tam"poon, n. Etym: [See Tampion.]

Defn: The stopper of a barrel; a bung.

TAM-'-SHANTER
Tam`-o'-shan"ter, n. [So named after Tam o'Shanter, a character in
Burns's poem of the same name.]

Defn: A kind of Scotch cap of wool, worsted, or the like, having a
round, flattish top much wider than the band which fits the head, and
usually having a tassel in the center.

TAM-TAM
Tam"-tam`, n. Etym: [Hind.; of imitative origin.] (Mus.)
(a) A kind of drum used in the East Indies and other Oriental
countries; -- called also tom-tom.
(b) A gong. See Gong, n., 1.

TAMUL
Ta"mul, a. & n.

Defn: Tamil.

TAMWORTH
Tam"worth, n. [From Tamworth, Staffordshire, England.]

Defn: One of a long-established English breed of large pigs. They are
red, often spotted with black, with a long snout and erect or
forwardly pointed ears, and are valued as bacon producers.

TAN
Tan, n. Etym: [Chin.]

Defn: See Picul.

TAN
Tan, n. Etym: [F. tan, perhaps fr. Armor. tann an oak, oak bar; or of
Teutonic origin; cf. G. tanne a fir, OHG. tanna a fir, oak, MHG. tan
a forest. Cf. Tawny.]

1. The bark of the oak, and some other trees, bruised and broken by a
mill, for tanning hides; -- so called both before and after it has
been used. Called also tan bark.

2. A yellowish-brown color, like that of tan.

3. A brown color imparted to the skin by exposure to the sun; as,
hands covered with tan. Tan bed (Hort.), a bed made of tan; a bark
bed.
 -- Tan pickle, the liquor used in tanning leather.
 -- Tan spud, a spud used in stripping bark for tan from trees.
 -- Tan stove. See Bark stove, under Bark.
 -- Tan vat, a vat in which hides are steeped in liquor with tan.

TAN
Tan, a.

Defn: Of the color of tan; yellowish-brown. Black and tan. See under
Black, a.

TAN
Tan, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tanned; p. pr. & vb. n. Tanning.] Etym: [F.
tanner, LL. tannare. See Tan, n.]

1. To convert (the skin of an animal) into leather, as by usual
process of steeping it in an infusion of oak or some other bark,
whereby it is impregnated with tannin, or tannic acid (which exists
in several species of bark), and is thus rendered firm, durable, and
in some degree impervious to water.

Note: The essential result in tanning is due to the fact that the
tannins form, with gelatins and albuminoids, a series of insoluble
compounds which constitute leather. Similar results may be produced
by the use of other reagents in place of tannin, as alum, and some
acids or chlorides, which are employed in certain processes of
tanning.

2. To make brown; to imbrown, as by exposure to the rays of the sun;
as, to tan the skin.

TAN
Tan, v. i.

Defn: To get or become tanned.

TANA
Ta"na, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Banxring.

TANAGER
Tan"a*ger, n. Etym: [NL. tanagra, probably fr. Brazilian tangara.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of bright-colored singing birds
belonging to Tanagra, Piranga, and allied genera. The scarlet tanager
(Piranga erythromelas) and the summer redbird (Piranga rubra) are
common species of the United States.

TANAGRINE
Tan"a*grine, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tanagers.

TANAGROID
Tan"a*groid, a. Etym: [Tanager + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Tanagrine.

TANATE
Ta*na"te, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Asiatic wild dog (Canis procyonoides), native of Japan and
adjacent countries. It has a short, bushy tail. Called also raccoon
dog.

TANDEM
Tan"dem, adv. & a. Etym: [L. tandem at length (of time only),
punningly taken as meaning, lengthwise.]

Defn: One after another; -- said especially of horses harnessed and
driven one before another, instead of abreast.

TANDEM
Tan"dem, n.

Defn: A team of horses harnessed one before the other. "He drove
tandems." Thackeray. Tandem engine, a compound steam engine having
two or more steam cylinders in the same axis, close to one another.
 -- Tandem bicycle or tricycle, one for two persons in which one
rider sits before the other.

TANDEM CART
Tan"dem cart.

Defn: A kind of two-wheeled vehicle with seats back to back, the
front one somewhat elevated.

TANDEM ENGINE
Tandem engine.

Defn: A steam engine having two or more steam cylinders in line, with
a common piston rod.

TANDEM SYSTEM
Tandem system. (Elec.)

Defn: = Cascade system.

TANG
Tang, n. Etym: [Of Scand. origin; cf. Dan. tang seaweed, Sw. tång,
Icel. þang. Cf. Tangle.] (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse blackish seaweed (Fuscus nodosus). Dr. Prior. Tang
sparrow (Zoöl.), the rock pipit. [Prov. Eng.]

TANG
Tang, n. Etym: [Probably fr. OD. tanger sharp, tart, literally,
pinching; akin to E. tongs. *59. See Tong.]

1. A strong or offensive taste; especially, a taste of something
extraneous to the thing itself; as, wine or cider has a tang of the
cask.

2. Fig.: A sharp, specific flavor or tinge. Cf. Tang a twang.
Such proceedings had a strong tang of tyranny. Fuller.
A cant of philosophism, and a tang of party politics. Jeffrey.

3. Etym: [Probably of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. tangi a projecting
point; akin to E. tongs. See Tongs.]

Defn: A projecting part of an object by means of which it is secured
to a handle, or to some other part; anything resembling a tongue in
form or position. Specifically: --
(a) The part of a knife, fork, file, or other small instrument, which
is inserted into the handle.
(b) The projecting part of the breech of a musket barrel, by which
the barrel is secured to the stock.
(c) The part of a sword blade to which the handle is fastened.
(d) The tongue of a buckle. [Prov. Eng.]

TANG
Tang, n. Etym: [Of imitative origin. Cf. Twang. This word has become
confused with tang tatse, flavor.]

Defn: A sharp, twanging sound; an unpleasant tone; a twang.

TANG
Tang, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tanged; p. pr. & vb. n. Tanging.]

Defn: To cause to ring or sound loudly; to ring.
Let thy tongue tang arguments of state. Shak.
To tang bees, to cause a swarm of bees to settle, by beating metal to
make a din.

TANG
Tang, v. i.

Defn: To make a ringing sound; to ring.
Let thy tongue tang arguments of state. Shak.

TANGALUNG
Tan"ga*lung, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An East Indian civet (Viverra tangalunga).

TANGELO
Tan"ge*lo (tan"je*lo), n.  [Tangerine + pomelo.]

Defn: A hybrid between the tangerine orange and the grapefruit, or
pomelo; also, the fruit.

TANGENCE
Tan"gence, n.

Defn: Tangency. [R.]

TANGENCY
Tan"gen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tangent; a contact or touching.

TANGENT
Tan"gent, n. Etym: [L. tangens, -entis, p.pr. of tangere to touch;
akin to Gr. tangente. Cf. Attain, Contaminate, Contingent, Entire,
Tact, Taste, Tax, v. t.] (Geom.)

Defn: A tangent line curve, or surface; specifically, that portion of
the straight line tangent to a curve that is between the point of
tangency and a given line, the given line being, for example, the
axis of abscissas, or a radius of a circle produced. See
Trigonometrical function, under Function. Artificial, or Logarithmic,
tangent, the logarithm of the natural tangent of an arc.
 -- Natural tangent, a decimal expressing the length of the tangent
of an arc, the radius being reckoned unity.
 -- Tangent galvanometer (Elec.), a form of galvanometer having a
circular coil and a short needle, in which the tangent of the angle
of deflection of the needle is proportional to the strength of the
current.
 -- Tangent of an angle, the natural tangent of the arc subtending or
measuring the angle.
 -- Tangent of an arc, a right line, as ta, touching the arc of a
circle at one extremity a, and terminated by a line ct, passing from
the center through the other extremity o.

TANGENT
Tan"gent, a. Etym: [L. tangens, -entis, p.pr.]

Defn: Touching; touching at a single point; specifically (Geom.)

Defn: meeting a curve or surface at a point and having at that point
the same direction as the curve or surface; -- said of a straight
line, curve, or surface; as, a line tangent to a curve; a curve
tangent to a surface; tangent surfaces. Tangent plane (Geom.), a
plane which touches a surface in a point or line.
 -- Tangent scale (Gun.), a kind of breech sight for a cannon.
 -- Tangent screw (Mach.), an endless screw; a worm.

TANGENTAL
Tan*gen"tal, a. (Geom.)

Defn: Tangential.

TANGENTIAL
Tan*gen"tial, a. (Geom.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tangent; in the direction of a tangent.
Tangential force (Mech.), a force which acts on a moving body in the
direction of a tangent to the path of the body, its effect being to
increase or diminish the velocity; -- distinguished from a normal
force, which acts at right angles to the tangent and changes the
direction of the motion without changing the velocity.
 -- Tangential stress. (Engin.) See Shear, n., 3.

TANGENTIALLY
Tan*gen"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In the direction of a tangent.

TANGENT SPOKE
Tangent spoke.

Defn: A tension spoke of a bicycle or similar wheel, secured
tangentially to the hub.

TANGENT WHEEL
Tangent wheel.
 (a) A worm or worm wheel; a tangent screw.
 (b) A wheel with tangent spokes.

TANGERINE
Tan"ger*ine`, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of orange, much like the mandarin, but of deeper color
and higher flavor. It is said to have been produced in America from
the mandarin. [Written also tangierine.]

TANGFISH
Tang"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common harbor seal. [Prov. Eng.]

TANGHINIA
Tan*ghin"i*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: The ordeal tree. See under Ordeal.

TANGIBILITY
Tan`gi*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tanggibilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being tangible.

TANGIBLE
Tan"gi*ble, a. Etym: [L. tangibilis, fr. tangere to touch: cf. F.
tangible. See Tangent.]

1. Perceptible to the touch; tactile; palpable. Bacon.

2. Capable of being possessed or realized; readily apprehensible by
the mind; real; substantial; evident. "A tangible blunder." Byron.
Direct and tangible benefit to ourselves and others. Southey.
-- Tan"gi*ble*ness, n.
 -- Tan"gi*bly, adv.

TANGLE
Tan"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tangled; p. pr. & vb. n. Tangling.]
Etym: [A frequentative fr. tang seaweed; hence, to twist like
seaweed. See Tang seaweed, and cf. Tangle, n.]

1. To unite or knit together confusedly; to interweave or interlock,
as threads, so as to make it difficult to unravel the knot; to
entangle; to ravel.

2. To involve; to insnare; to entrap; as, to be tangled in lies.
"Tangled in amorous nets." Milton.
When my simple weakness strays, Tangled in forbidden ways. Crashaw.

TANGLE
Tan"gle, v. i.

Defn: To be entangled or united confusedly; to get in a tangle.

TANGLE
Tan"gle, n.

1. Etym: [Cf. Icel. þöngull. See Tang seaweed.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any large blackish seaweed, especially the Laminaria
saccharina. See Kelp.
Coral and sea fan and tangle, the blooms and the palms of the ocean.
C. Kingsley.

2. Etym: [From Tangle, v.]

Defn: A knot of threads, or other thing, united confusedly, or so
interwoven as not to be easily disengaged; a snarl; as, hair or yarn
in tangles; a tangle of vines and briers. Used also figuratively.

3. pl.

Defn: An instrument consisting essentiallly of an iron bar to which
are attached swabs, or bundles of frayed rope, or other similar
substances, -- used to capture starfishes, sea urchins, and other
similar creatures living at the bottom of the sea. Blue tangle.
(Bot.)See Dangleberry.
 -- Tangle picker (Zoöl.), the turnstone. [Prov. Eng.]

TANGLEFISH
Tan"gle*fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sea adder, or great pipefish of Europe.

TANGLINGLY
Tan"gling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a tangling manner.

TANGLY
Tan"gly, a.

1. Entangled; intricate.

2. Covered with tangle, or seaweed.
Prone, helpless, on the tangly beach he lay. Falconer.

TANGO
Tan"go, n.; pl. Tangos (#). [Sp., a certain dance.]
 (a) A difficult dance in two-four time characterized by graceful
posturing, frequent pointing positions, and a great variety of steps,
including the cross step and turning steps. The dance is of Spanish
origin, and is believed to have been in its original form a part of
the fandango.
 (b) Any of various popular forms derived from this.

TANGRAM
Tan"gram, n. Etym: [Cf. Trangram.]

Defn: A Chinese toy made by cutting a square of thin wood, or other
suitable material, into seven pieces, as shown in the cut, these
pieces being capable of combination in various ways, so as to form a
great number of different figures. It is now often used in primary
schools as a means of instruction.

TANGUE
Tangue, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The tenrec.

TANGUN
Tan"gun, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A piebald variety of the horse, native of Thibet.

TANGWHAUP
Tang"whaup, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The whimbrel. [Prov. Eng.]

TANIER
Tan"i*er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An aroid plant (Caladium sagittæfolium), the leaves of which
are boiled and eaten in the West Indies. [Written also tannier.]

TANIST
Tan"ist, n. Etym: [Ir. tanaiste, tanaise, second, the second person
in rank, the presumptive or apparent heir to a prince.]

Defn: In Ireland, a lord or proprietor of a tract of land or of a
castle, elected by a family, under the system of tanistry.
This family [the O'Hanlons] were tanists of a large territory within
the present county of Armagh. M. A. Lower.

TANISTRY
Tan"ist*ry, n. Etym: [See Tanist.]

Defn: In Ireland, a tenure of family lands by which the proprietor
had only a life estate, to which he was admitted by election.

Note: The primitive intention seems to have been that the inheritance
should descend to the oldest or most worthy of the blood and name of
the deceased. This was, in reality, giving it to the strongest; and
the practice often occasioned bloody feuds in families, for which
reason it was abolished under James I.

TANITE
Ta"nite, n.

Defn: A firm composition of emery and a certain kind of cement, used
for making grinding wheels, slabs, etc.

TANK
Tank, n.

Defn: A small Indian dry measure, averaging 240 grains in weight;
also, a Bombay weight of 72 grains, for pearls. Simmonds.

TANK
Tank, n. Etym: [Pg. tanque, L. stangum a pool; or perhaps of East
Indian origin. Cf. Stank, n.]

Defn: A large basin or cistern; an artificial receptacle for liquids.
Tank engine, a locomotive which carries the water and fuel it
requires, thus dispensing with a tender.
 -- Tank iron, plate iron thinner than boiler plate, and thicker than
sheet iron or stovepipe iron.
 -- Tank worm (Zoöl.), a small nematoid worm found in the water tanks
of India, supposed by some to be the young of the Guinea worm.

TANKA
Tan"ka, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A kind of boat used in Canton. It is about 25 feet long and is
often rowed by women. Called also tankia. S. W. Williams.

TANKAGE
Tank"age, n.

1. The act or process of putting or storing in tanks.

2.  Fees charged for storage in tanks.

3.  The capacity or contents of a tank or tanks.

4.  (Agric.) Waste matter from tanks; esp., the dried nitrogenous
residue from tanks in which fat has been rendered, used as a
fertilizer.

TANKARD
Tank"ard, n. Etym: [OF. tanquart; cf. OD. tanckaert; of uncertain
origin.]

Defn: A large drinking vessel, especially one with a cover.
Marius was the first who drank out of a silver tankard, after the
manner of Bacchus. Arbuthnot.

TANKIA
Tan"ki*a, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Tanka.

TANKLING
Tank"ling, n.

Defn: A tinkling. [Obs.]

TANK SHIP; TANK VESSEL
Tank ship, Tank vessel . (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel fitted with tanks for the carrying of oil or other
liquid in bulk.

TANLING
Tan"ling, n.

Defn: One tanned by the sun. [R.]
Hot summer's tanlings and The shrinking slaves of winter. Shak.

TANNABLE
Tan"na*ble, a.

Defn: That may be tanned.

TANNAGE
Tan"nage, n.

Defn: A tanning; the act, operation, or result of tanning. [R.]
They should have got his cheek fresh tannage. R. Browning.

TANNATE
Tan"nate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tannate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tannic acid.

TANNER
Tan"ner, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to tan hides, or convert them into
leather by the use of tan.

TANNERY
Tan"ner*y, n.; pl. Tanneries. Etym: [Cf. F. tannerie.]

1. A place where the work of tanning is carried on.

2. The art or process of tanning. [R.] Carlyle.

TANNIC
Tan"nic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to tan; derived from, or resembling, tan; as,
tannic acid. Tannic acid. (Chem.) (a) An acid obtained from nutgalls
as a yellow amorphous substance, C14H10O9, having an astringent
taste, and forming with ferric salts a bluish-black compound, which
is the basis of common ink. Called also tannin, and gallotannic acid.
(b) By extension, any one of a series of astringent substances
resembling tannin proper, widely diffused through the vegetable
kingdom, as in oak bark, willow, catechu, tea, coffee, etc.

TANNIER
Tan"ni*er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Tanier.

TANNIGEN
Tan"ni*gen, n.  [Tannin + -gen.] (Pharm.)

Defn: A compound obtained as a yellowish gray powder by the action of
acetyl chloride or acetic anhydride or ordinary tannic acid. It is
used as an intestinal astringent, and locally in rhinitis and
pharyngitis.

TANNIN
Tan"nin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tannin.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Tannic acid, under Tannic.

TANNING
Tan"ning, n.

Defn: The art or process of converting skins into leather. See Tan,
v. t., 1.

TANREC
Tan"rec, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Tenrec.

TANSY
Tan"sy, n. Etym: [OE. tansaye, F. tanaise; cf. It. & Sp. tanaceto,
NL. tanacetum, Pg. atanasia, athanasia, Gr. 'aqanasi`a immortality,
fr. 'aqa`natos immortal; 'a priv. + qa`natos death.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the composite genus Tanacetum. The common tansy
(T. vulgare) has finely divided leaves, a strong aromatic odor, and a
very bitter taste. It is used for medicinal and culinary purposes.

2. A dish common in the seventeenth century, made of eggs, sugar,
rose water, cream, and the juice of herbs, baked with butter in a
shallow dish. [Obs.] Pepys. Double tansy (Bot.), a variety of the
common tansy with the leaves more dissected than usual.
 -- Tansy mustard (Bot.), a plant (Sisymbrium canescens) of the
Mustard family, with tansylike leaves.

TANT
Tant, n. Etym: [Cf. Taint tincture.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small scarlet arachnid.

TANTALATE
Tan"ta*late, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tantalic acid.

TANTALIC
Tan*tal"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to tantalum; derived from, or containing,
tantalum; specifically, designating any one of a series of acids
analogous to nitric acid and the polyacid compounds of phosphorus.

TANTALISM
Tan"ta*lism, n. Etym: [See Tantalize.]

Defn: A punishment like that of Tantalus; a teasing or tormenting by
the hope or near approach of good which is not attainable;
tantalization. Addison.
Is not such a provision like tantalism to this people Josiah Quincy.

TANTALITE
Tan"ta*lite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tantalite.] (Min.)

Defn: A heavy mineral of an iron-black color and submetallic luster.
It is essentially a tantalate of iron.

TANTALIZATION
Tan`ta*li*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of tantalizing, or state of being tantalized. Gayton.

TANTALIZE
Tan"ta*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tantalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tantalizing.] Etym: [From Tantalus: cf. F. tantaliser.]

Defn: To tease or torment by presenting some good to the view and
exciting desire, but continually frustrating the expectations by
keeping that good out of reach; to tease; to torment.
Thy vain desires, at strife Within themselves, have tantalized thy
life. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To tease; vex; irritate; provoke.
 -- Tantalize, Disappoint. To disappoint is literally to do away with
what was (or was taken to be) appointed; hence the peculiar pain from
hopes thus dashed to the ground. To tantalize, a much stronger term,
describes a most distressing form of disappointment, as in the case
of Tantalus, the Phrygian king. To tantalize is to visit with the
bitterest disappointment -- to torment by exciting hopes or
expectations which can never be realized.

TANTALIZER
Tan"ta*li`zer, n.

Defn: One who tantalizes.

TANTALIZINGLY
Tan"ta*li`zing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a tantalizing or teasing manner.

TANTALUM
Tan"ta*lum, n. Etym: [NL. So named on account of the perplexity and
difficulty encounterd by its discoverer (Ekeberg) in isolating it.
See Tantalus.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare nonmetallic element found in certain minerals, as
tantalite, samarskite, and fergusonite, and isolated as a dark powder
which becomes steel-gray by burnishing. Symbol Ta. Atomic weight
182.0. Formerly called also tantalium.

TANTALUS
Tan"ta*lus, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. Ta`ntalos.] (Gr. Myth.)

1. A Phrygian king who was punished in the lower world by being
placed in the midst of a lake whose waters reached to his chin but
receded whenever he attempted to allay his thirst, while over his
head hung branches laden with choice fruit which likewise receded
whenever he stretched out his hand to grasp them.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of wading birds comprising the wood ibises. Tantalus's
cup (Physics), a philosophical toy, consisting of a cup, within which
is the figure of a man, and within the figure a siphon, the longer
arm of which passes down through the bottom of the cup, and allows
the escape of any liquid that may be poured in, when it reaches as
high as the bend of the siphon, which is just below the level of the
mouth of the figure in the cup.

TANTAMOUNT
Tan"ta*mount`, a. Etym: [F. tant so much (L. tantus) + E. amount.]

Defn: Equivalent in value, signification, or effect.
A usage nearly tantamount to constitutional right. Hallam.
The certainty that delay, under these circumstances, was tantamount
to ruin. De Quincey.

TANTAMOUNT
Tan"ta*mount`, v. i.

Defn: To be tantamount or equivalent; to amount. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

TANTIVY
Tan*tiv"y, adv. Etym: [Said to be from the note of a hunting horn.]

Defn: Swiftly; speedily; rapidly; -- a fox-hunting term; as, to ride
tantivy.

TANTIVY
Tan*tiv"y, n.

Defn: A rapid, violent gallop; an impetulous rush. Cleverland.

TANTIVY
Tan*tiv"y, v. i.

Defn: To go away in haste. [Colloq.]

TANTRA
Tan"tra (tan"tra; tun"-), n. [Skr.] (Hinduism)

Defn: A ceremonial treatise related to Puranic and magic literature;
esp., one of the sacred works of the worshipers of Sakti. -- Tan"tric
(-trik), a.

TANTRISM
Tan"trism, n.

Defn: The system of doctrines and  rites taught in the tantras. --
Tan"trist (#), n.

TANTRUM
Tan"trum, n.

Defn: A whim, or burst of ill-humor; an affected air. [Colloq.]
Thackeray.

TANYARD
Tan"yard`, n.

Defn: An inclosure where the tanning of leather is carried on; a
tannery.

TANYSTOMATA
Tan`y*stom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of dipterous insects in which the proboscis is large
and contains lancelike mandibles and maxillæ. The horseflies and
robber flies are examples.

TAOISM
Ta"o*ism, n.

Defn: One of the popular religions of China, sanctioned by the state.
 -- Ta"o*ist, a. & n.

TAOTAI
Tao`tai", n. [Chin. tao circuit + t'ai, a title of respect.]

Defn: In China, an official at the head of the civil and military
affairs of a circuit, which consists of two or more fu, or
territorial departments; --called also, by foreigners, intendant of
circuit. Foreign consuls and commissioners associated with taotais as
superintendants of trade at the treaty ports are ranked with the
taotai.

TAP
Tap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Tapping.] Etym: [F.
taper to strike; of Teutonic origin; cf. dial. G. tapp, tapps, a
blow, tappe a paw, fist, G. tappen to grope.]

1. To strike with a slight or gentle blow; to touch gently; to rap
lightly; to pat; as, to tap one with the hand or a cane.

2. To put a new sole or heel on; as, to tap shoes.

TAP
Tap, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tape. See Tap to strike.]

1. A gentle or slight blow; a light rap; a pat. Addison.

2. A piece of leather fastened upon the bottom of a boot or shoe in
repairing or renewing the sole or heel.

3. pl. (Mil.)

Defn: A signal, by drum or trumpet, for extinguishing all lights in
soldiers' quarters and retiring to bed, -- usually given about a
quarter of an hour after tattoo. Wilhelm.

TAP
Tap, v. i.

Defn: To strike a gentle blow.

TAP
Tap, n. Etym: [AS. tæppa, akin to D. tap, G. zapfen, OHG. zapfo, Dan.
tap, Sw. tapp, Icel. tappi. Cf. Tampion, Tip.]

1. A hole or pipe through which liquor is drawn.

2. A plug or spile for stopping a hole pierced in a cask, or the
like; a faucet.

3. Liquor drawn through a tap; hence, a certain kind or quality of
liquor; as, a liquor of the same tap. [Colloq.]

4. A place where liquor is drawn for drinking; a taproom; a bar.
[Colloq.]

5. (Mech.)

Defn: A tool for forming an internal screw, as in a nut, consisting
of a hardened steel male screw grooved longitudinally so as to have
cutting edges. On tap. (a) Ready to be drawn; as, ale on tap. (b)
Broached, or furnished with a tap; as, a barrel on tap.
 -- Plug tap (Mech.), a screw-cutting tap with a slightly tapering
end.
 -- Tap bolt, a bolt with a head on one end and a thread on the other
end, to be screwed into some fixed part, instead of passing through
the part and receiving a nut. See Illust. under Bolt.
 -- Tap cinder (Metal.), the slag of a puddling furnace.

TAP
Tap, v. t.

1. To pierce so as to let out, or draw off, a fluid; as, to tap a
cask, a tree, a tumor, etc.

2. Hence, to draw from (anything) in any analogous way; as, to tap
telegraph wires for the purpose of intercepting information; to tap
the treasury.

3. To draw, or cause to flow, by piercing. Shak.
He has been tapping his liquors. Addison.

4. (Mech.)

Defn: To form an internal screw in (anything) by means of a tool
called a tap; as, to tap a nut.

TAPA
Ta"pa, n.

Defn: A kind of cloth prepared by the Polynesians from the inner bark
of the paper mulberry; -- sometimes called also kapa.

TAPADERA; TAPADERO
Tap`a*de"ra, Tap`a*de"ro, n. [Also tapidero.] [Sp. tapadera lid,
cover.]

Defn: One of the leather hoods which cover the stirrups of a Mexican
saddle.

TAPAYAXIN
Ta`pa*yax"in, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Mexican spinous lizard (Phrynosoma orbiculare) having a head
somewhat like that of a toad; -- called also horned toad.

TAPE
Tape, n. Etym: [AS. tæppe a fillet. Cf. Tapestry, Tippet.]

1. A narrow fillet or band of cotton or linen; a narrow woven fabric
used for strings and the like; as, curtains tied with tape.

2. A tapeline; also, a metallic ribbon so marked as to serve as a
tapeline; as, a steel tape. Red tape. See under Red.
 -- Tape grass (Bot.), a plant (Vallisneria spiralis) with long
ribbonlike leaves, growing in fresh or brackish water; -- called also
fresh-water eelgrass, and, in Maryland, wild celery.
 -- Tape needle. See Bodkin, n., 4.

TAPELINE
Tape"line`, n.

Defn: A painted tape, marked with linear dimensions, as inches, feet,
etc., and often inclosed in a case, -- used for measuring.

TAPER
Ta"per, n. Etym: [AS. tapur, tapor, taper; cf. Ir. tapar, W. tampr.]

1. A small wax candle; a small lighted wax candle; hence, a small
light.
Get me a taper in my study, Lucius. Shak.

2. A tapering form; gradual diminution of thickness in an elongated
object; as, the taper of a spire.

TAPER
Ta"per, a. Etym: [Supposed to be from taper, n., in allusion to its
form.]

Defn: Regularly narrowed toward the point; becoming small toward one
end; conical; pyramidical; as, taper fingers.

TAPER
Ta"per, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tapered; p. pr. & vb. n. Tapering.]

Defn: To become gradually smaller toward one end; as, a sugar loaf
tapers toward one end.

TAPER
Ta"per, v. t.

Defn: To make or cause to taper.

TAPERED
Ta"pered, a.

Defn: Lighted with a taper or tapers; as, a tapered choir. [R.] T.
Warton.

TAPERING
Ta"per*ing, a.

Defn: Becoming gradually smaller toward one end.
 -- Ta"per*ing*ly, adv.

TAPERNESS
Ta"per*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being taper; tapering form; taper.
Shenstone.

TAPESTRY
Tap"es*try, n.; pl. Tapestries. Etym: [F. tapissere, fr. tapisser to
carpet, to hang, or cover with tapestry, fr. tapis a carpet,
carpeting, LL. tapecius, fr. L. tapete carpet, tapestry, Gr. Tapis,
Tippet.]

Defn: A fabric, usually of worsted, worked upon a warp of linen or
other thread by hand, the designs being usually more or less
pictorial and the stuff employed for wall hangings and the like. The
term is also applied to different kinds of embroidery. Tapestry
carpet, a kind of carpet, somewhat resembling Brussels, in which the
warp is printed before weaving, so as to produce the figure in the
cloth.
 -- Tapestry moth. (Zoöl.) Same as Carpet moth, under Carpet.

TAPESTRY
Tap"es*try, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tapestried; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tapestrying.]

Defn: To adorn with tapestry, or as with tapestry.
The Trosachs wound, as now, between gigantic walls of rock tapestried
with broom and wild roses. Macaulay.

TAPESTRY BEETLE
Tap"es*try bee"tle.

Defn: A small black dermestoid beetle (Attagenus piceus) whose larva
feeds on tapestry, carpets, silk, fur, flour, and various other
goods.

TAPET
Tap"et, n. Etym: [L. tapete. See Tapestry.]

Defn: Worked or figured stuff; tapestry. [R.] Spenser.

TAPETI
Tap"e*ti, n.; pl. Tapetis. Etym: [Braz.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small South American hare (Lepus Braziliensis).

TAPETUM
Ta*pe"tum, n. Etym: [NL., from L. tapete a carpet, a tapestry.]
(Anat.)

Defn: An area in the pigmented layer of the choroid coat of the eye
in many animals, which has an iridescent or metallic luster and helps
to make the eye visible in the dark. Sometimes applied to the whole
layer of pigmented epithelium of the choroid.

TAPEWORM
Tape"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of cestode worms belonging to Tænia
and many allied genera. The body is long, flat, and composed of
numerous segments or proglottids varying in shape, those toward the
end of the body being much larger and longer than the anterior ones,
and containing the fully developed sexual organs. The head is small,
destitute of a mouth, but furnished with two or more suckers (which
vary greatly in shape in different genera), and sometimes, also, with
hooks for adhesion to the walls of the intestines of the animals in
which they are parasitic. The larvæ (see Cysticercus) live in the
flesh of various creatures, and when swallowed by another animal of
the right species develop into the mature tapeworm in its intestine.
See Illustration in Appendix.

Note: Three species are common parasites of man: the pork tapeworm
(Tænia solium), the larva of which is found in pork; the beef
tapeworm (T. mediocanellata), the larva of which lives in the flesh
of young cattle; and the broad tapeworm (Bothriocephalus latus) which
is found chiefly in the inhabitants of the mountainous regions of
Europe and Asia. See also Echinococcus, Cysticercus, Proglottis, and
2d Measles, 4.

TAPHOUSE
Tap"house`, n.

Defn: A house where liquors are retailed.

TAPHRENCHYMA
Taph*ren"chy*ma, n. Etym: [Gr. enchyma, as in parenchyma.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Bothrenchyma.

TAPINAGE
Tap"i*nage, n. Etym: [See Tapish.]

Defn: A lurking or skulking. [Obs.] Gower.

TAPIOCA
Tap`i*o"ca, n. Etym: [Braz. tapioka: cf. Pg., Sp. & F. tapioca.]

Defn: A coarsely granular substance obtained by heating, and thus
partly changing, the moistened starch obtained from the roots of the
cassava. It is much used in puddings and as a thickening for soups.
See Cassava.

TAPIR
Ta"pir, n. Etym: [Braz. tapy'ra: cf. F. tapir.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large odd-toed ungulates
belonging to Tapirus, Elasmognathus, and allied genera. They have a
long prehensile upper lip, short ears, short and stout legs, a short,
thick tail, and short, close hair. They have three toes on the hind
feet, and four toes on the fore feet, but the outermost toe is of
little use.

Note: The best-known species are the Indian tapir (Tapirus Indicus),
native of the East Indies and Malacca, which is black with a broad
band of white around the middle, and the common American tapir (T.
Americanus), which, when adult, is dull brown. Several others species
inhabit the Andes and Central America. Tapir tiger (Zoöl.), the
wallah.

TAPIROID
Ta"pir*oid, a. Etym: [Tapir + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Allied to the tapir, or the Tapir family.

TAPIS
Ta"pis, n. Etym: [F. See Tapestry.]

Defn: Tapestry; formerly, the cover of a council table. On, or Upon,
the tapis, on the table, or under consideration; as, to lay a motion
in Parliament on the tapis.

TAPIS
Tap"is, v. t.

Defn: To cover or work with figures like tapestry. [R.] Holland.

TAPISER
Tap"is*er, n. Etym: [F. tapissier.]

Defn: A maker of tapestry; an upholsterer. [R.] Chaucer.

TAPISH
Tap"ish, v. i. Etym: [F. se tapir to squat.]

Defn: To lie close to the ground, so as to be concealed; to squat; to
crouch; hence, to hide one's self. [Written also tappis, tappish,
tappice.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
As a hound that, having roused a hart, Although he tappish ne'er so
soft. Chapman.

TAPLASH
Tap"lash`, n.

Defn: Bad small beer; also, the refuse or dregs of liquor. [Obs. or
Prov. Eng.]
The taplash of strong ale and wine. Taylor (1630).

TAPLINGS
Tap"lings, n. pl.

Defn: The strong double leathers by which the two parts of a flail
are united. Halliwell.

TAPOA TAFA
Ta*po"a ta"fa. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small carnivorous marsupial (Phascogale penicillata) having
long, soft fur, and a very long tail with a tuft of long hairs at the
end; -- called also brush-tailed phascogale.

TAPPEN
Tap"pen, n.

Defn: An obstruction, or indigestible mass, found in the intestine of
bears and other animals during hibernation.

TAPPER
Tap"per, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor); -- called
also tapperer, tabberer, little wood pie, barred woodpecker, wood
tapper, hickwall, and pump borer. [Prov. Eng.]

TAPPESTER
Tap"pes*ter, n. Etym: [See Tapster.]

Defn: A female tapster. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TAPPET
Tap"pet, n. (Mach.)

Defn: A lever or projection moved by some other piece, as a cam, or
intended to tap or touch something else, with a view to produce
change or regulate motion. G. Francis. Tappet motion, a valve motion
worked by tappets from a reciprocating part, without an eccentric or
cam, -- used in steam pumps, etc.

TAPPET ROD
Tap"pet rod. (Mech.)

Defn: A rod carrying a tappet or tappets, as one for closing the
valves in a Cornish pumping engine.

TAPPICE; TAPPIS
Tap"pice, Tap"pis, v. i.

Defn: See Tapish.

TAPPIT HEN
Tap"pit hen`.

1. A hen having a tuft of feathers on her head. [Scot.] Jamieson.

2. A measuring pot holding one quart (according to some, three
quarts); -- so called from a knob on the lid, though to resemble a
crested hen. [Scot.] Jamieson.

TAPPOON
Tap*poon", n. [Sp. tampón a stopper.] (Irrigation)

Defn: A piece of wood or sheet metal fitted into a ditch to dam up
the water so as to overflow a field. [U. S.]

TAPROOM
Tap"room`, n.

Defn: A room where liquors are kept on tap; a barroom.
The ambassador was put one night into a miserable taproom, full of
soldiers smoking. Macaulay.

TAPROOT
Tap"root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The root of a plant which penetrates the earth directly
downward to a considerable depth without dividing.

TAPSTER
Tap"ster, n. Etym: [AS. tæppestre a female tapster. See Tap a plug,
pipe, and -ster.]

Defn: One whose business is to tap or draw ale or other liquor.

TAQUA-NUT
Ta"qua-nut`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A Central American name for the ivory nut.

TAR
Tar, n. Etym: [Abbrev. from tarpaulin.]

Defn: A sailor; a seaman. [Colloq.] Swift.

TAR
Tar, n. Etym: [OE. terre, tarre, AS. teru, teoru; akin to D. teer, G.
teer, theer, Icel. tjara, Sw. tjära, Dan. tiære, and to E. tree. *63.
See Tree.]

Defn: A thick, black, viscous liquid obtained by the distillation of
wood, coal, etc., and having a varied composition according to the
temperature and material employed in obtaining it. Coal tar. See in
the Vocabulary.
 -- Mineral tar (Min.), a kind of soft native bitumen.
 -- Tar board, a strong quality of millboard made from junk and old
tarred rope. Knight.
 -- Tar water. (a) A cold infusion of tar in water, used as a
medicine. (b) The ammoniacal water of gas works.
 -- Wood tar, tar obtained from wood. It is usually obtained by the
distillation of the wood of the pine, spruce, or fir, and is used in
varnishes, cements, and to render ropes, oakum, etc., impervious to
water.

TAR
Tar, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tarred; p. pr. & vb. n. Tarring.]

Defn: To smear with tar, or as with tar; as, to tar ropes; to tar
cloth. To tar and feather a person. See under Feather, v. t.

TARANIS
Tar"a*nis, n. Etym: [L. taranis, from the Celtic; cf. W. & Corn.
taran thunder.] (Myth.)

Defn: A Celtic divinity, regarded as the evil principle, but
confounded by the Romans with Jupiter.

TARANTASS
Tar`an*tass", n. Etym: [Russ. tarantas'.]

Defn: A low four-wheeled carriage used in Russia. The carriage box
rests on two long, springy poles which run from the fore to the hind
axletree. When snow falls, the wheels are taken off, and the body is
mounted on a sledge.

TARANTELLA
Tar`an*tel"la, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)
(a) A rapid and delirious sort of Neapolitan dance in 6-8 time, which
moves in whirling triplets; -- so called from a popular notion of its
being a remedy against the poisonous bite of the tarantula. Some
derive its name from Taranto in Apulia.
(b) Music suited to such a dance.

TARANTISM
Tar"ant*ism, n. Etym: [It. tarantismo: cf. F. tarentisme. See
Tarantula.] (Med.)

Defn: A nervous affection producing melancholy, stupor, and an
uncontrollable desire to dance. It was supposed to be produced by the
bite of the tarantula, and considered to be incapable of cure except
by protraced dancing to appropriate music. [Written also tarentism.]

TARANTULA
Ta*ran"tu*la, n.; pl. E. Tarantulas, L. Tarantulæ. Etym: [NL., fr.
It. tarantola, fr. L. Tarentum, now Taranto, in the south of Italy.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large spiders, popularly supposed
to be very venomous, especially the European species (Tarantula
apuliæ). The tarantulas of Texas and adjacent countries are large
species of Mygale. [Written also tarentula.] Tarantula killer, a very
large wasp (Pompilus formosus), which captures the Texan tarantula
(Mygale Hentzii) and places it in its nest as food for its young,
after paralyzing it by a sting.

TARANTULATED
Ta*ran"tu*la`ted, a.

Defn: Bitten by a tarantula; affected with tarantism.

TARBOGAN
Tar*bog"an, n. & v.

Defn: See Toboggan.

TARBOOSH
Tar*boosh", n. Etym: [Ar. tarb; perhaps from Per. sar-posh headdress:
cf. F. tarbouch.]

Defn: A red cap worn by Turks and other Eastern nations, sometimes
alone and sometimes swathed with linen or other stuff to make a
turban. See Fez.

TARDATION
Tar*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. tardatio, fr. tardare, tardatum, to retard,
delay, fr. tardus slow.]

Defn: The act of retarding, or delaying; retardation. [Obs.]

TARDIGRADA
Tar`di*gra"da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Tardigrade, a.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tribe of edentates comprising the sloths. They are noted for
the slowness of their movements when on the ground. See Sloth, 3.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of minute aquatic arachnids; -- called also bear
animalcules, sloth animalcules, and water bears.

TARDIGRADE
Tar"di*grade, a. Etym: [L. tardigradus; tardus slow + gradi to step:
cf. F. tardigrade.]

1. Moving or stepping slowly; slow-paced. [R.] G. Eliot.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Tardigrada.

TARDIGRADE
Tar"di*grade, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Tardigrada.

TARDIGRADOUS
Tar"di*gra`dous, a.

Defn: Moving slowly; slow-paced. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

TARDILY
Tar"di*ly, adv.

Defn: In a tardy manner; slowly.

TARDINESS
Tar"di*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tardy.

TARDITATION
Tar`di*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Tardiness. [Obs.]
To instruct them to avoid all snares of tarditation, in the Lord's
affairs. Herrick.

TARDITY
Tar"di*ty, n. Etym: [L. tarditas.]

Defn: Slowness; tardiness. [R.] Sir K. Digby.

TARDO
Tar"do, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slow; -- a direction to perform a passage slowly.

TARDO
Tar"do, n. Etym: [Sp., slow, L. tardus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sloth.

TARDY
Tar"dy, a. [Compar. Tardier; superl. Tardiest.] Etym: [F. tardif, fr.
(assumed) LL. tardivus, fr. L. tardus slow.]

1. Moving with a slow pace or motion; slow; not swift.
And check the tardy flight of time. Sandys.
Tardy to vengeance, and with mercy brave. Prior.

2. Not being inseason; late; dilatory; -- opposed to prompt; as, to
be tardy in one's payments. Arbuthnot.
The tardy plants in our cold orchards placed. Waller.

3. Unwary; unready. [Obs.] Hudibras.

4. Criminal; guilty. [Obs.] Collier.

Syn.
 -- Slow; dilatory; tedious; reluctant. See Slow.

TARDY
Tar"dy, v. t.

Defn: To make tardy. [Obs.] Shak.

TARE
Tare, obs. imp. of Tear.

Defn: Tore.

TARE
Tare, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. tare brisk, eager, OE. tarefitch the
wild vetch.]

1. A weed that grows among wheat and other grain; -- alleged by
modern naturalists to be the Lolium temulentum, or darnel.
Didst not thou sow good seed in thy field From whence then hath it
tares Matt. xiii. 27.
The "darnel" is said to be the tares of Scripture, and is the only
deleterious species belonging to the whole order. Baird.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A name of several climbing or diffuse leguminous herbs of the
genus Vicia; especially, the V. sativa, sometimes grown for fodder.

TARE
Tare, n. Etym: [F. tare; cf. Pr., Sp., Pg., & It. tara; all fr. Ar.
tarah thrown away, removed, fr. taraha to reject, remove.] (Com.)

Defn: Deficientcy in the weight or quantity of goods by reason of the
weight of the cask, bag, or whatever contains the commodity, and is
weighed with it; hence, the allowance or abatement of a certain
weight or quantity which the seller makes to the buyer on account of
the weight of such cask, bag, etc.

TARE
Tare, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tared; p. pr. & vb. n. Taring.]

Defn: To ascertain or mark the tare of (goods).

TARED
Tared, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Weighed; determined; reduced to equal or standard weight; as,
tared filter papers, used in weighing precipitates.

TARENTE
Ta*ren"te, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tarente.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A harmless lizard of the Gecko family (Platydactylus
Mauritianicus) found in Southern Europe and adjacent countries,
especially among old walls and ruins.

TARENTISM
Tar"ent*ism, n.

Defn: See Tarantism.

TARENTULA
Ta*ren"tu*la, n.

Defn: See Tarantula.

TARGE
Targe, n. Etym: [F. Cf. Target.]

Defn: A shield or target. [Obs. or Poetic] "A buckler on a targe."
Chaucer.

TARGET
Tar"get, n. Etym: [OF. targette, dim. of OF. & F. targe, of Teutonic
origin; cf. AS. targe, OD. targie, G. zarge a frame, case, border,
OHG. zarga, Icel. targa shield.]

1. A kind of small shield or buckler, used as a defensive weapon in
war.

2.
(a) A butt or mark to shoot at, as for practice, or to test the
accuracy of a firearm, or the force of a projectile.
(b) The pattern or arrangement of a series of hits made by a marksman
on a butt or mark; as, he made a good target.

3. (Surveying)

Defn: The sliding crosspiece, or vane, on a leveling staff.

4. (Railroad)

Defn: A conspicuous disk attached to a switch lever to show its
position, or for use as a signal.

TARGETED
Tar"get*ed, a.

Defn: Furnished, armed, or protected, with a target.

TARGETEER
Tar`get*eer", n.

Defn: One who is armed with a target or shield. [Written also
targetier.]

TARGUM
Tar"gum, n.; pl. Targums. Heb. Targumim. Etym: [Chald. targum
interpretation, fr. targem to interpret. Cf. Truchman, and Dragoman.]

Defn: A translation or paraphrase of some portion of the Old
Testament Scriptures in the Chaldee or Aramaic language or dialect.

TARGUMIST
Tar"gum*ist, n.

Defn: The writer of a Targum; one versed in the Targums.

TARIFF
Tar"iff, n. Etym: [F. tarif; cf. Sp. & Pg. tarifa, It. tariffa; all
fr. Ar. ta'rif information, explanation, definition, from 'arafa, to
know, to inform, explain.]

1. A schedule, system, or scheme of duties imposed by the government
of a country upon goods imported or exported; as, a revenue tariff; a
protective tariff; Clay's compromise tariff. (U.S. 1833).

Note: The United States and Great Britain impose no duties on
exports; hence, in these countries the tariff refers only to imports.

2. The duty, or rate of duty, so imposed; as, the tariff on wool; a
tariff of two cents a pound.

3. Any schedule or system of rates, changes, etc.; as, a tariff of
fees, or of railroad fares. Bolingbroke.

TARIFF
Tar"iff, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tariffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tariffing.]

Defn: To make a list of duties on, as goods.

TARIN
Tar"in, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The siskin. [Prov.]

TARING
Tar"ing, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common tern; -- called also tarret, and tarrock. [Prov.
Eng.]

TARLATAN
Tar"la*tan, n.

Defn: A kind of thin, transparent muslin, used for dresses.

TARN
Tarn, n. Etym: [OE. terne, Icel. tjörn.]

Defn: A mountain lake or pool.
A lofty precipice in front, A silent tarn below. Wordsworth.

TARNISH
Tar"nish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tarnished; p. pr. & vb. n. Tarnishing.]
Etym: [F. ternir, fr. OHG. tarnen to darken, to conceal, hide; akin
to OS. dernian to hide, AS. dernan, dyrnan, OHG. tarni hidden, OS.
derni, AS. derne, dyrne. Cf. Dern, a., and see -ish.]

Defn: To soil, or change the appearance of, especially by an
alternation induced by the air, or by dust, or the like; to diminish,
dull, or destroy the luster of; to sully; as, to tarnish a metal; to
tarnish gilding; to tarnish the purity of color. "Tarnished lace."
Fuller. Used also figuratively; as, to tarnish one's honor.

Syn.
 -- To sully; stain; dim.

TARNISH
Tar"nish, v. i.

Defn: To lose luster; to become dull; as, gilding will tarnish in a
foul air.
Till thy fresh glories, which now shine so bright, Grow stale and
tarnish with our daily sight. Dryden.

TARNISH
Tar"nish, n.

1. The quality or state of being tarnished; stain; soil; blemish.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A thin film on the surface of a metal, usually due to a slight
alteration of the original color; as, the steel tarnish in columbite.

TARNISHER
Tar"nish*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, tarnishes.

TARO
Ta"ro, n. Etym: [From the Polynesian name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name for several aroid plants (Colocasia antiquorum, var.
esculenta, Colocasia macrorhiza, etc.), and their rootstocks. They
have large ovate-sagittate leaves and large fleshy rootstocks, which
are cooked and used for food in tropical countries.

TAROT
Tar"ot, n. Etym: [F.; cf. It. tarocco.]

Defn: A game of cards; -- called also taroc. Hoyle.

TARPAN
Tar"pan, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wild horse found in the region of the Caspian Sea.

TARPAULIN
Tar*pau"lin, n. Etym: [Tar + palling a covering, pall to cover. See
Pall a covering.]

1. A piece of canvas covered with tar or a waterproof composition,
used for covering the hatches of a ship, hammocks, boats, etc.

2. A hat made of, or covered with, painted or tarred cloth, worn by
sailors and others.

3. Hence, a sailor; a seaman; a tar.
To a landsman, these tarpaulins, as they were called, seemed a
strange and half-savage race. Macaulay.

TARPEIAN
Tar*pe"ian, a. [L. Tarpeius, prop., pertaining to Tarpeia.]

Defn: Pertaining to or designating a rock or peak of the Capitoline
hill, Rome, from which condemned criminals were hurled.

TARPON
Tar"pon, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Tarpum.

TARPUM
Tar"pum, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large marine fish (Megapolis Atlanticus) of the Southern
United States and the West Indies. It often becomes six or more feet
in length, and has large silvery scales. The scales are a staple
article of trade, and are used in fancywork. Called also tarpon,
sabalo, savanilla, silverfish, and jewfish.

TARQUINISH
Tar"quin*ish, a.

Defn: Like a Tarquin, a king of ancient Rome; proud; haughty;
overbearing.

TARRACE
Tar"race, n.

Defn: See Trass. [Obs.]

TARRAGON
Tar"ra*gon, n. Etym: [Sp. taragona, Ar. tarkh; perhaps fr. Gr. draco;
cf. L. dracunculus tarragon. Cf. Dragon.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Artemisa (A. dracunculus), much used in
France for flavoring vinegar.

TARRAS
Tar"ras, n.

Defn: See Trass. [Obs.]

TARRE
Tarre, v. t. Etym: [OE. tarien, terien, to irritate, provoke, AS.
tergan to pull, pluck, torment; probably akin to E. tear, v.t. *63.
Cf. Tarry, v.]

Defn: To set on, as a dog; to incite. [Obs.] Shak.

TARRIANCE
Tar"ri*ance, n.

Defn: The act or time of tarrying; delay; lateness. [Archaic] Shak.
And after two days' tarriance there, returned. Tennyson.

TARRIER
Tar"ri*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, tarries.

TARRIER
Tar"ri*er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of dig; a terrier. [Obs.]

TARROCK
Tar"rock, n. Etym: [Greenland tattarock.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The young of the kittiwake gull before the first molt.
(b) The common guillemot. [Prov. Eng.]
(c) The common tern.

TARRY
Tar"ry, a. Etym: [From Tar, n.]

Defn: Consisting of, or covered with, tar; like tar.

TARRY
Tar"ry, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tarried; p. pr. & vb. n. Tarrying.] Etym:
[OE. tarien to irritate (see Tarre); but with a change of sense
probably due to confusion with OE. targen to delay, OF. targier, fr.
(assumed) LL. tardicare, fr. L. tardare to make slow, to tarry, fr.
tardus slow. Cf. Tardy.]

1. To stay or remain behind; to wait.
Tarry ye for us, until we come again. Ex. xxiv. 14.

2. To delay; to put off going or coming; to loiter.
Come down unto me, tarry not. Gen. xic. 9.
One tarried here, there hurried one. Emerson.

3. To stay; to abide; to continue; to lodge.
Tarry all night, and wash your feet. Gen. xix. 2.

Syn.
 -- To abide; continue; lodge; await; loiter.

TARRY
Tar"ry, v. t.

1. To delay; to defer; to put off. [Obs.]
Tarry us here no longer than to-morrow. Chaucer.

2. To wait for; to stay or stop for. [Archaic]
He that will have a cake out of the wheat must needs tarry the
grinding. Shak.
He plodded on, . . . tarrying no further question. Sir W. Scott.

TARRY
Tar"ry, n.

Defn: Stay; stop; delay. [Obs.] E. Lodge.

TARSAL
Tar"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tarsus (either of the foot or eye).
 -- n.

Defn: A tarsal bone or cartilage; a tarsale. Tarsal tetter (Med.), an
eruptive disease of the edges of the eyelids; a kind of bleareye.

TARSAL
Tar"sal, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Tercel. [Obs.]

TARSALE
Tar*sa"le, n.; pl. Tarsalia. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the bones or cartilages of the tarsus; esp., one of the
series articulating with the metatarsals.

TARSE
Tarse, n. Etym: [Cf. Tassel, Tiercel.] (Falconry)

Defn: The male falcon.

TARSE
Tarse, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tarse.] (Anat.)

Defn: tarsus.

TARSECTOMY
Tar*sec"to*my, n. Etym: [Tarsus + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of excising one or more of the bones of the
tarsus.

TARSEL
Tar"sel, n.

Defn: A male hawk. See Tercel. [Obs.]

TARSI
Tar"si, n.,

Defn: pl. of Tarsus.

TARSIA; TARSIATURA
Tar"si*a, Tar`si*a*tu"ra, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A kind of mosaic in woodwork, much employed in Italy in the
fifteenth century and later, in which scrolls and arabesques, and
sometimes architectural scenes, landscapes, fruits, flowers, and the
like, were produced by inlaying pieces of wood of different colors
and shades into panels usually of walnut wood.

TARSIER
Tar"si*er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tarsier.]

Defn: See Tarsius.

TARSIUS
Tar"si*us, n. Etym: [NL. See Tarsus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of nocturnal lemurine mammals having very large eyes
and ears, a long tail, and very long proximal tarsal bones; -- called
also malmag, spectral lemur, podji, and tarsier.

TARSO-
Tar"so-.

Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with,
or relation to, the tarsus; as, tarsometatarsus.

TARSOMETATARSAL
Tar`so*met`a*tar"sal, a. (Anat.)
(a) Of or pertaining to both the tarsus and metatarsus; as, the
tarsometatarsal articulations.
(b) Of or pertaining to the tarsometatarsus.

TARSOMETATARSUS
Tar`so*met`a*tar"sus, n.; pl. Tarsometatarsi. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: The large bone next the foot in the leg of a bird. It is formed
by the union of the distal part of the tarsus with the metatarsus.

TARSORRHAPHY
Tar*sor"rha*phy, n. Etym: [Tarsus + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An operation to diminish the size of the opening between
eyelids when enlarged by surrounding cicatrices.

TARSOTOMY
Tar*sot"o*my, n. Etym: [Tarsus + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of cutting or removing the tarsal cartilages.

TARSUS
Tar"sus, n.; pl. Tarsi. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Tarse.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) The ankle; the bones or cartilages of the part of the foot
between the metatarsus and the leg, consisting in man of seven short
bones.
(b) A plate of dense connective tissue or cartilage in the eyelid of
man and many animals; -- called also tarsal cartilage, and tarsal
plate.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The foot of an insect or a crustacean. It usually consists of
form two to five joints.

TART
Tart, a. Etym: [AS. teart. *63. Cf. Tear, v. t.]

1. Sharp to the taste; acid; sour; as, a tart apple.

2. Fig.: Sharp; keen; severe; as, a tart reply; tart language; a tart
rebuke.
Why art thou tart, my brother Bunyan.

TART
Tart, n. Etym: [OE. tarte, F. tarte; perhaps originally the same word
as tourte, LL. torta, fr. L. tortus, p.p. of torquere to twist, bend,
wind, because tarts were originally made of a twisted shape. Cf.
Torture, n.]

Defn: A species of small open pie, or piece of pastry, containing
jelly or conserve; a sort of fruit pie.

TARTAN
Tar"tan, n. Etym: [F. tiretane linsey-woolsey, akin to Sp. tiritaña a
sort of thin silk; cf. Sp. tiritar to shiver or shake with cold.]

Defn: Woolen cloth, checkered or crossbarred with narrow bands of
various colors, much worn in the Highlands of Scotland; hence, any
pattern of tartan; also, other material of a similar pattern.
MacCullummore's heart will be as cold as death can make it, when it
does not warm to the tartan. Sir W. Scott.
The sight of the tartan inflamed the populace of London with hatred.
Macaulay.

TARTAN
Tar"tan, n. Etym: [F. tartane, or Sp., Pg., or It. tartana; all
perhaps of Arabic origin.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small coasting vessel, used in the Mediterranean, having one
mast carrying large leteen sail, and a bowsprit with staysail or jib.

TARTAR
Tar"tar, n. Etym: [F. tartre (cf. Pr. tartari, Sp., Pg., & It.
tartaro, LL. tartarum, LGr.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A reddish crust or sediment in wine casks, consisting
essentially of crude cream of tartar, and used in marking pure cream
of tartar, tartaric acid, potassium carbonate, black flux, etc., and,
in dyeing, as a mordant for woolen goods; -- called also argol, wine
stone, etc.

2. A correction which often incrusts the teeth, consisting of
salivary mucus, animal matter, and phosphate of lime. Cream of
tartar. (Chem.) See under Cream.
 -- Tartar emetic (Med. Chem.), a double tartrate of potassium and
basic antimony. It is a poisonous white crystalline substance having
a sweetish metallic taste, and used in medicine as a sudorific and
emetic.

TARTAR
Tar"tar, n.

1. Etym: [Per. Tatar, of Tartar origin.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Tartary in Asia; a member of any one
of numerous tribes, chiefly Moslem, of Turkish origin, inhabiting the
Russian Europe; -- written also, more correctly but less usually,
Tatar.

2. A person of a keen, irritable temper. To catch a tartar, to lay
hold of, or encounter, a person who proves too strong for the
assailant. [Colloq.]

TARTAR
Tar"tar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars.

TARTAR
Tar"tar, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tartare.]

Defn: See Tartarus. Shak.

TARTARATED
Tar"tar*a`ted, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Tartrated.

TARTAREAN; TARTAREOUS
Tar*ta"re*an, Tar*ta"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. tartareus: cf. F.
tartaréen.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tartarus; hellish.

TARTAREOUS
Tar*ta"re*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. 1st Tartarous.]

1. Consisting of tartar; of the nature of tartar.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the surface rough and crumbling; as, many lichens are
tartareous.

TARTARIAN; TARTARIC
Tar*ta"ri*an, Tar*tar"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars. Tartarian
lamb (Bot.), Scythian lamb. See Barometz.

TARTARIAN
Tar*ta"ri*an, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of some kinds of cherries, as the Black Tartarian, or
the White Tartarian.

TARTARIC
Tar*tar"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to tartar; derived from, or resembling,
tartar. Tartaric acid. (a) An acid widely diffused throughout the
vegetable kingdom, as in grapes, mountain-ash berries, etc., and
obtained from tartar as a white crystalline substance,
C2H2(OH)2.(CO2H)2, having a strong pure acid taste. It is used in
medicine, in dyeing, calico printing, photography, etc., and also as
a substitute for lemon juice. Called also dextro-tartaric acid. (b)
By extension, any one of the series of isomeric acids (racemic acid,
levotartaric acid, inactive tartaric acid) of which tartaric acid
proper is the type.

TARTARINE
Tar"tar*ine, n. (Old Chem.)

Defn: Potassium carbonate, obtained by the incineration of tartar.
[Obs.]

TARTARIZE
Tar"tar*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tartarized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tartarizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. tartariser.] (Chem.)

Defn: To impregnate with, or subject to the action of, tartar. [R.]
Tartarized antimony (Med. Chem.), tartar emetic.

TARTARIZE
Tar"tar*ize, v. t.

Defn: To cause to resemble the Tartars and their civilization, as by
conquest.

TARTAROUS
Tar"tar*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. tartareux.]

Defn: Containing tartar; consisting of tartar, or partaking of its
qualities; tartareous.

TARTAROUS
Tar"tar*ous, a.

Defn: Resembling, or characteristic of, a Tartar; ill-natured;
irritable.
The Tartarous moods of common men. B. Jonson.

TARTARUM
Tar"ta*rum, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See 1st Tartar.

TARTARUS
Tar"ta*rus, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The infernal regions, described in the Iliad as situated as far
below Hades as heaven is above the earth, and by later writers as the
place of punishment for the spirits of the wicked. By the later
poets, also, the name is often used synonymously with Hades, or the
Lower World in general.

TARTARY
Tar"ta*ry, n.

Defn: Tartarus. [Obs.] Spenser.

TARTINI'S TONES
Tar*ti"ni's tones`. Etym: [From Tartini, an Italian violinist, who
discovered them in 1754.]

Defn: See the Note under Tone.

TARTISH
Tart"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat tart.

TARTLET
Tart"let, n.

Defn: A small tart. V. Knox.

TARTLY
Tart"ly, adv.

Defn: In a tart manner; with acidity.

TARTNESS
Tart"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tart.

Syn.
 -- Acrimony; sourness; keenness; poignancy; severity; asperity;
acerbity; harshness. See Acrimony.

TARTRALIC
Tar*tral"ic, a. Etym: [From Tartar the chemical compound.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a white
amorphous deliquescent substance, C8H10O11; -- called also
ditartaric, tartrilic, or tartrylic acid.

TARTRAMATE
Tar*tram"ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tartramic acid.

TARTRAMIC
Tar*tram"ic, a. Etym: [Tarto- + amic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is the primary
acid amide derivative of tartaric acid.

TARTRAMIDE
Tar*tram"ide, n. Etym: [Tarto- + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An acid amide derivative of tartaric acid, obtained as a white
crystalline substance.

TARTRATE
Tar"trate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tartrate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tartaric acid.

TARTRATED
Tar"tra`ted, a. (Med. Chem.)

Defn: Containing, or derived from, tartar; combined with tartaric
acid.

TARTRAZINE
Tar"tra*zine, n. Etym: [Tartaric + hydrazine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An artificial dyestuff obtained as an orange-yellow powder, and
regarded as a phenyl hydrazine derivative of tartaric and sulphonic
acids.

TARTRELIC
Tar*trel"ic, a. Etym: [From Tartar the chemical compound.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anhydride, C4H4O5, of
tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline deliquescent
substance.

TARTRO-
Tar"tro-.

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) used in chemistry to
denote the presence of tartar or of some of its compounds or
derivatives.

TARTRONATE
Tar"tro*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tartronic acid.

TARTRONIC
Tar*tron"ic, a. Etym: [Tartro- + malonic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also
hydroxy malonic acid) obtained, by reducing mesoxalic acid, as a
white crystalline substance.

TARTRONYL
Tar"tro*nyl, n. Etym: [Tartronic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical constituting the characteristic residue
of tartronic acid and certain of its derivatives.

TARTROVINIC
Tar`tro*vin"ic, a. Etym: [Tartro- + vinic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain acid composed of
tartaric acid in combination with ethyl, and now called ethyltartaric
acid.

TARTUFFE; TARTUFE
Tar*tuffe", Tar*tufe", n. Etym: [F. tartufe.]

Defn: A hypocritical devotee. See the Dictionary of Noted Names in
Fiction.

TARTUFFISH; TARTUFISH
Tar*tuff"ish, Tar*tuf"ish, a.

Defn: Like a tartuffe; precise; hypocritical. Sterne.

TARWEED
Tar"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several resinous-glandular composite plants of
California, esp. to the species of Grindelia, Hemizonia, and Madia.

TAS
Tas, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A heap. [Obs.] "The tas of bodies slain." Chaucer.

TAS
Tas, v. t.

Defn: To tassel. [Obs.] "A purse of leather tassed with silk."
Chaucer.

TASCO
Tas"co, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. tasconio.]

Defn: A kind of clay for making melting pots. Percy Smith.

TASIMER
Ta*sim"er, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for detecting or measuring minute extension or
movements of solid bodies. It consists essentially of a small rod,
disk, or button of carbon, forming part of an electrical circuit, the
resistance of which, being varied by the changes of pressure produced
by the movements of the object to be measured, causes variations in
the strength of the current, which variations are indicated by a
sensitive galvanometer. It is also used for measuring minute changes
of temperature. T. A. Edison.

TASK
Task, n. Etym: [OE. taske, OF. tasque, F. tâche, for tasche, LL.
tasca, taxa, fr. L. taxare to rate, appraise, estimate. See Tax, n. &
v.]

1. Labor or study imposed by another, often in a definite quantity or
amount.
Ma task of servile toil. Milton.
Each morning sees some task begin, Each evening sees it close.
Longfellow.

2. Business; employment; undertaking; labor.
His mental powers were equal to greater tasks. Atterbury.
To take to task. See under Take.

Syn.
 -- Work; labor; employment; business; toil; drudgery; study; lesson;
stint.