

TERMAGANT
Ter"ma*gant, a.

Defn: Tumultuous; turbulent; boisterous; furious; quarrelsome;
scolding.
 -- Ter"ma*gant*ly, adv.
A termagant, imperious, prodigal, profligate wench. Arbuthnot.

TERMATARIUM
Ter`ma*ta"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Termes.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any nest or dwelling of termes, or white ants.

TERMATARY
Ter"ma*ta*ry, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Termatarium.

TERM DAY
Term day.

Defn: A day which is a term (as for payment of rent), or is a day in
a term, as of the sitting of a court; esp., one of a series of
special days, designated by scientists of different nations or
stations, for making synoptic magnetic, meteorological, or other
physical observations.

TERMER
Term"er, n.

1. One who resorted to London during the law term only, in order to
practice tricks, to carry on intrigues, or the like. [Obs.] [Written
also termor.] B. Jonson.

2. (Law)

Defn: One who has an estate for a term of years or for life.

TERMES
Ter"mes, n.; pl. Termities. Etym: [L. termes, tarmes, -itis, a
woodworm. Cf. Termite.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Pseudoneuroptera including the white ants, or
termites. See Termite.

TERMINABLE
Ter"mi*na*ble, a. Etym: [See Terminate.]

Defn: Capable of being terminated or bounded; limitable.
 -- Ter"mi*na*ble*ness, n. Terminable annuity, an annuity for a
stated, definite number of years; -- distinguished from life annuity,
and perpetual annuity.

TERMINAL
Ter"mi*nal, a. Etym: [L. terminals: cf. F. terminal. See Term, n.]

1. Of or pertaining to the end or extremity; forming the extremity;
as, a terminal edge.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing at the end of a branch or stem; terminating; as, a
terminal bud, flower, or spike. Terminal moraine. See the Note under
Moraine.
 -- Terminal statue. See Terminus, n., 2 and 3.
 -- Terminal velocity. (a) The velocity acquired at the end of a
body's motion. (b) The limit toward which the velocity of a body
approaches, as of a body falling through the air.

TERMINAL
Ter"mi*nal, n.

1. That which terminates or ends; termination; extremity.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: Either of the ends of the conducting circuit of an electrical
apparatus, as an inductorium, dynamo, or electric motor, usually
provided with binding screws for the attachment of wires by which a
current may be conveyed into or from the machine; a pole.

TERMINALIA
Ter`mi*na"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A festival celebrated annually by the Romans on February 23 in
honor of Terminus, the god of boundaries.

TERMINANT
Ter"mi*nant, n. Etym: [L. terminans, p.pr. of terminare.]

Defn: Termination; ending. [R.] Puttenham.

TERMINATE
Ter"mi*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Terminated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Terminating.] Etym: [L. terminatus, p.p. of terminare. See Term.]

1. To set a term or limit to; to form the extreme point or side of;
to bound; to limit; as, to terminate a surface by a line.

2. To put an end to; to make to cease; as, to terminate an effort, or
a controversy.

3. Hence, to put the finishing touch to; to bring to completion; to
perfect.
During this interval of calm and prosperity, he [Michael Angelo]
terminated two figures of slaves, destined for the tomb, in an
incomparable style of art. J. S. Harford.

TERMINATE
Ter"mi*nate, v. i.

1. To be limited in space by a point, line, or surface; to stop
short; to end; to cease; as, the torrid zone terminates at the
tropics.

2. To come to a limit in time; to end; to close.
The wisdom of this world, its designs and efficacy, terminate on zhis
side heaven. South.

TERMINATION
Ter`mi*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. terminatio a bounding, fixing,
determining: cf. F. terminasion, OF. also termination. See Term.]

1. The act of terminating, or of limiting or setting bounds; the act
of ending or concluding; as, a voluntary termination of hostilities.

2. That which ends or bounds; limit in space or extent; bound; end;
as, the termination of a line.

3. End in time or existence; as, the termination of the year, or of
life; the termination of happiness.

4. End; conclusion; result. Hallam.

5. Last purpose of design. [R.]

6. A word; a term. [R. & Obs.] Shak.

7. (Gram.)

Defn: The ending of a word; a final syllable or letter; the part
added to a stem in inflection.

TERMINATIONAL
Ter`mi*na"tion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to termination; forming a termination.

TERMINATIVE
Ter"mi*na*tive, a.

Defn: Tending or serving to terminate; terminating; determining;
definitive. Bp. Rust.
 -- Ter"mi*na*tive*ly, adv. Jer. Taylor.

TERMINATOR
Ter"mi*na`tor, n. Etym: [L., he who limits or sets bounds.]

1. One who, or that which, terminates.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The dividing line between the illuminated and the unilluminated
part of the moon.

TERMINATORY
Ter"mi*na*to*ry, a.

Defn: Terminative.

TERMINE
Ter"mine, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. terminer.]

Defn: To terminate. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

TERMINER
Ter"mi*ner, n. Etym: [F. terminer to bound, limit, end. See
Terminate.] (Law)

Defn: A determining; as, in oyer and terminer. See Oyer.

TERMINISM
Ter"mi*nism, n.

Defn: The doctrine held by the Terminists.

TERMINIST
Ter"mi*nist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. terministe.] (Theol.)

Defn: One of a class of theologians who maintain that God has fixed a
certain term for the probation of individual persons, during which
period, and no longer, they have the offer to grace. Murdock.

TERMINOLOGICAL
Ter`mi*no*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to terminology.
 -- Ter`mi*no*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

TERMINOLOGY
Ter`mi*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. terminus term + -logy: cf. F.
terminologie.]

1. The doctrine of terms; a theory of terms or appellations; a
treatise on terms.

2. The terms actually used in any business, art, science, or the
like; nomenclature; technical terms; as, the terminology of
chemistry.
The barbarous effect produced by a German structure of sentence, and
a terminology altogether new. De Quincey.

TERM INSURANCE
Term insurance.

Defn: Insurance for a specified term providing for no payment to the
insured except upon losses during the term, and becoming void upon
its expiration.

TERMINUS
Ter"mi*nus, n.; pl. Termini. Etym: [L. See Term.]

1. Literally, a boundary; a border; a limit.

2. (Myth.)

Defn: The Roman divinity who presided over boundaries, whose statue
was properly a short pillar terminating in the bust of a man, woman,
satyr, or the like, but often merely a post or stone stuck in the
ground on a boundary line.

3. Hence, any post or stone marking a boundary; a term. See Term, 8.

4. Either end of a railroad line; also, the station house, or the
town or city, at that place.

TERMITE
Ter"mite, n.; pl. Termites. Etym: [F. See Termes.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of pseudoneoropterous insects
belonging to Termes and allied genera; -- called also white ant. See
Illust. of White ant.

Note: They are very abundant in tropical countries, and are noted for
their destructive habits, their large nests, their remarkable social
instincts, and their division of labor among the polymorphic
individuals of several kinds. Besides the males and females, each
nest has ordinary workers, and large-headed individuals called
soldiers.

TERMLESS
Term"less, a.

1. Having no term or end; unlimited; boundless; unending; as,
termless time. [R.] "Termless joys." Sir W. Raleigh.

2. Inexpressible; indescribable. [R.] Shak.

TERMLY
Term"ly, a.

Defn: Occurring every term; as, a termly fee. [R.] Bacon.

TERMLY
Term"ly, adv.

Defn: Term by term; every term. [R.] "Fees . . . that are termly
given." Bacon.

TERMONOLOGY
Ter`mo*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: Terminology. [R.]

TERMOR
Term"or, n. (Law)

Defn: Same as Termer, 2.

TERM POLICY
Term policy.

Defn: A policy of term insurance.

TERN
Tern, n. Etym: [Dan. terne, tærne; akin to Sw. tärna, Icel. ; cf. NL.
sterna.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of long-winged aquatic birds,
allied to the gulls, and belonging to Sterna and various allied
genera.

Note: Terns differ from gulls chiefly in their graceful form, in
their weaker and more slender bills and feet, and their longer and
more pointed wings. The tail is usually forked. Most of the species
are white with the back and wings pale gray, and often with a dark
head. The common European tern (Sterna hirundo) is found also in Asia
and America. Among other American species are the arctic tern (S.
paradisæa), the roseate tern (S. Dougalli), the least tern (S.
Antillarum), the royal tern (S. maxima), and the sooty tern (S.
fuliginosa). Hooded tern. See Fairy bird, under Fairy.
 -- Marsh tern, any tern of the genus Hydrochelidon. They frequent
marshes and rivers and feed largely upon insects.
 -- River tern, any tern belonging to Seëna or allied genera which
frequent rivers.
 -- Sea tern, any tern of the genus Thalasseus. Terns of this genus
have very long, pointed wings, and chiefly frequent seas and the
mouths of large rivers.

TERN
Tern, a. Etym: [L. pl. terni three each, three; akin to tres three.
See Three, and cf. Trine.]

Defn: Threefold; triple; consisting of three; ternate. Tern flowers
(Bot.), flowers growing three and three together.
 -- Tern leaves (Bot.), leaves arranged in threes, or three by three,
or having three in each whorl or set.
 -- Tern peduncles (Bot.), three peduncles growing together from the
same axis.
 -- Tern schooner (Naut.), a three-masted schooner.

TERN
Tern, n. Etym: [F. terne. See Tern, a.]

Defn: That which consists of, or pertains to, three things or numbers
together; especially, a prize in a lottery resulting from the
favorable combination of three numbers in the drawing; also, the
three numbers themselves.
She'd win a tern in Thursday's lottery. Mrs. Browning.

TERNARY
Ter"na*ry, a. Etym: [L. ternarius, fr. terni. See Tern, a.]

1. Proceeding by threes; consisting of three; as, the ternary number
was anciently esteemed a symbol of perfection, and held in great
veneration.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Containing, or consisting of, three different parts, as
elements, atoms, groups, or radicals, which are regarded as having
different functions or relations in the molecule; thus, sodic
hydroxide, NaOH, is a ternary compound.

TERNARY
Ter"na*ry, n.; pl. Ternaries (.

Defn: A ternion; the number three; three things taken together; a
triad.
Some in ternaries, some in pairs, and some single. Holder.

TERNATE
Ter"nate, a. Etym: [NL. ternatus, fr. L. terni three each. See Tern,
a.]

Defn: Having the parts arranged by threes; as, ternate branches,
leaves, or flowers.
 -- Ter"nate*ly, adv.

TERNEPLATE
Terne"plate`, n. Etym: [See Tern, a., and Plate.]

Defn: Thin iron sheets coated with an alloy of lead and tin; -- so
called because made up of three metals.

TERNION
Ter"ni*on, n. Etym: [L. ternio, fr. terni three each. See Tern, a.]

Defn: The number three; three things together; a ternary. Bp. Hall.

TERPENE
Ter"pene, n. Etym: [See Turpentine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of isomeric hydrocarbons of pleasant
aromatic odor, occurring especially in coniferous plants and
represented by oil of turpentine, but including also certain
hydrocarbons found in some essential oils.

TERPENTIC
Ter*pen"tic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Terpenylic.

TERPENYLIC
Ter`pe*nyl"ic, a. Etym: [Terpene + -yl + -ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C8H12O4 (called
also terpentic acid), homologous with terebic acid, and obtained as a
white crystalline substance by the oxidation of oil of turpentine
with chromic acid.

TERPILENE
Ter"pi*lene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A polymeric form of terpene, resembling terbene.

TERPIN
Ter"pin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance regarded as a hydrate of oil of
turpentine.

TERPINOL
Ter"pin*ol, n. Etym: [Terpin + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any oil substance having a hyacinthine odor, obtained by the
action of acids on terpin, and regarded as a related hydrate.

TERPSICHORE
Terp*sich"o*re, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gr. Myth.)

Defn: The Muse who presided over the choral song and the dance,
especially the latter.

TERPSICHOREAN
Terp`sich*o*re"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Terpsichore; of or pertaining to dancing.

TERRA
Ter"ra, n. Etym: [It. & L. See Terrace.]

Defn: The earth; earth. Terra alba Etym: [L., white earth] (Com.), a
white amorphous earthy substance consisting of burnt gypsum,
aluminium silicate (kaolin), or some similar ingredient, as magnesia.
It is sometimes used to adulterate certain foods, spices, candies,
paints, etc.
 -- Terra cotta. Etym: [It., fr. terra earth + cotta, fem. of cotto
cooked, L. coctus, p.p. of coquere to cook. See Cook, n.] Baked clay;
a kind of hard pottery used for statues, architectural decorations,
figures, vases, and the like.
 -- Terræ filius Etym: [L., son of the earth], formerly, one
appointed to write a satirical Latin poem at the public acts in the
University of Oxford; -- not unlike the prevaricator at Cambridge,
England.
 -- Terra firma Etym: [L.], firm or solid earth, as opposed to water.
 -- Terra Japonica. Etym: [NL.] Same as Gambier. It was formerly
supposed to be a kind of earth from Japan.
 -- Terra Lemnia Etym: [L., Lemnian earth], Lemnian earth. See under
Lemnian.
 -- Terra ponderosa Etym: [L., ponderous earth] (Min.), barite, or
heavy spar.
 -- Terra di Sienna. See Sienna.

TERRACE
Ter"race, n. Etym: [F. terrasse (cf. Sp. terraza, It. terrazza), fr.
L. terra the earth, probably for tersa, originally meaning, dry land,
and akin to torrere to parch, E. torrid, and thirst. See Thirst, and
cf. Fumitory, Inter, v., Patterre, Terrier, Trass, Tureen, Turmeric.]

1. A raised level space, shelf, or platform of earth, supported on
one or more sides by a wall, a bank of tuft, or the like, whether
designed for use or pleasure.

2. A balcony, especially a large and uncovered one.

3. A flat roof to a house; as, the buildings of the Oriental nations
are covered with terraces.

4. A street, or a row of houses, on a bank or the side of a hill;
hence, any street, or row of houses.

5. (Geol.)

Defn: A level plain, usually with a steep front, bordering a river, a
lake, or sometimes the sea.

Note: Many rivers are bordered by a series of terraces at different
levels, indicating the flood plains at successive periods in their
history. Terrace epoch. (Geol.) See Drift epoch, under Drift, a.

TERRACE
Ter"race, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Terraced; p. pr. & vb. n. Terracing.]

Defn: To form into a terrace or terraces; to furnish with a terrace
or terraces, as, to terrace a garden, or a building. Sir H. Wotton.
Clermont's terraced height, and Esher's groves. Thomson.

TERRACULTURE
Ter"ra*cul`ture, n. Etym: [L. terra the earth + cultura.]

Defn: Cultivation on the earth; agriculture. [R.] --
Ter`ra*cul"tur*al, a. [R.]

TERRA INCOGNITA
Ter"ra in*cog"ni*ta. [L.]

Defn: An unknown land; unexplored country.

The enormous tracts lying outside China proper, still almost terræ
incognitæ.
A. R. Colquhoun.

TERRANE
Ter"rane, n. Etym: [F. terrain, from L. terra earth.] (Geol.)

Defn: A group of rocks having a common age or origin; -- nearly
equivalent to formation, but used somewhat less comprehensively.

TERRAPIN
Ter"ra*pin, n. Etym: [Probably of American Indian origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of tortoises living in fresh and
brackish waters. Many of them are valued for food. [Written also
terapin, terrapen, terrapene, and turapen.]

Note: The yellow-bellied terrapin (Pseudemys acebra) of the Southern
United States, the red-bellied terrapin (Pseudemys rugosa), native of
the tributaries Chesapeake Bay (called also potter, slider, and
redfender), and the diamond-back or salt-marsh terrapin (Malaclemmys
palustris), are the most important American species. The diamond-back
terrapin is native of nearly the whole of the Atlantic coast of the
United States. Alligator terrapin, the snapping turtle.
 -- Mud terrapin, any one of numerous species of American tortoises
of the genus Cinosternon.
 -- Painted terrapin, the painted turtle. See under Painted.
 -- Speckled terrapin, a small fresh-water American terrapin
(Chelopus guttatus) having the carapace black with round yellow
spots; -- called also spotted turtle.

TERRAQUEOUS
Ter*ra"que*ous, a. Etym: [L. terra the earth + E. aqueous.]

Defn: Consisting of land and water; as, the earth is a terraqueous
globe. Cudworth.
The grand terraqueous spectacle From center to circumference
unveiled. Wordsworth.

TERRAR
Ter"rar, n. Etym: [LL. terrarius liber. See Terrier a collection of
acknowledgments.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: See 2d Terrier, 2.

TERRAS
Ter"ras, n. (Min.)

Defn: See .

TERREEN
Ter*reen", n.

Defn: See Turren.

TERREITY
Ter*re"i*ty, n.

Defn: Quality of being earthy; earthiness. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

TERREL
Ter"rel, n. Etym: [NL. terrella, from L. terra the earth.]

Defn: A spherical magnet so placed that its poles, equator, etc.,
correspond to those of the earth. [Obs.] Chambers.

TERREMOTE
Terre"mote`, n. Etym: [OF. terremote, terremoete, fr. L. terra the
earth + movere, motum, to move.]

Defn: An earthquake. [Obs.] Gower.

TERRENE
Ter*rene", n.

Defn: A tureen. [Obs.] Walpole.

TERRENE
Ter*rene", a. Etym: [L. terrenus, fr. terra the earth. See Terrace.]

1. Of or pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, terrene substance.
Holland.

2. Earthy; terrestrial.
God set before him a mortal and immortal life, a nature celestial and
terrene. Sir W. Raleigh.
Be true and faithful to the king and his heirs, and truth and faith
to bear of life and limb, and terrene honor. O. Eng. Oath of
Allegiance, quoted by Blackstone.
Common conceptions of the matters which lie at the basis of our
terrene experience. Hickok.

TERRENE
Ter*rene", n. Etym: [L. terrenum land, ground: cf. F. terrain.]

1. The earth's surface; the earth. [Poetic]
Tenfold the length of this terrene. Milton.

2. (Surv.)

Defn: The surface of the ground.

TERRENITY
Ter*ren"i*ty, n.

Defn: Earthiness; worldliness. [Obs.] "A dull and low terrenity."
Feltham.

TERREOUS
Ter"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. terreus, fr. terra the earth. See Terrace.]

Defn: Consisting of earth; earthy; as, terreous substances; terreous
particles. [Obs.]

TERREPLEIN
Terre"plein`, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. terra earth + planus even, level,
plain.] (Fort.)

Defn: The top, platform, or horizontal surface, of a rampart, on
which the cannon are placed. See Illust. of Casemate.

TERRESTRE
Ter*res"tre, a. Etym: [OE., from OF. & F. terrestre.]

Defn: Terrestrial; earthly. [Obs.] "His paradise terrestre." Chaucer.

TERRESTRIAL
Ter*res"tri*al, a. Etym: [L. terrestris, from terra the earth. See
Terrace.]

1. Of or pertaining to the earth; existing on the earth; earthly; as,
terrestrial animals. "Bodies terrestrial." 1 Cor. xv. 40.

2. Representing, or consisting of, the earth; as, a terrestrial
globe. "The dark terrestrial ball." Addison.

3. Of or pertaining to the world, or to the present state; sublunary;
mundane.
Vain labors of terrestrial wit. Spenser.
A genius bright and base, Of towering talents, and terrestrial aims.
Young.

4. Consisting of land, in distinction from water; belonging to, or
inhabiting, the land or ground, in distinction from trees, water, or
the like; as, terrestrial serpents.
The terrestrial parts of the globe. Woodward.

5. Adapted for the observation of objects on land and on the earth;
as, a terrestrial telescope, in distinction from an astronomical
telescope.
 -- Ter*res"tri*al*ly, adv.
 -- Ter*res"tri*al*ness, n.

TERRESTRIAL
Ter*res"tri*al, n.

Defn: An inhabitant of the earth.

TERRESTRIFY
Ter*res"tri*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. terrestris terrestrial + -fy.]

Defn: To convert or reduce into a condition like that of the earth;
to make earthy. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

TERRESTRIOUS
Ter*res"tri*ous, a. Etym: [See Terrestrial.]

Defn: Terrestrial. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

TERRET
Ter"ret, n.

Defn: One of the rings on the top of the saddle of a harness, through
which the reins pass.

TERRE-TENANT
Terre"-ten`ant, n. Etym: [F. terre earth, land + tenant, p.pr. of
tenir to hold.] (Law)

Defn: One who has the actual possession of land; the occupant.
[Written also ter-tenant.]

TERRE-VERTE
Terre"-verte`, n. Etym: [F., fr. terre earth + vert, verte, green.]

Defn: An olive-green earth used as a pigment. See Glauconite.

TERRIBLE
Ter"ri*ble, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. terribilis, fr. terrere to frighten.
See Terror.]

1. Adapted or likely to excite terror, awe, or dread; dreadful;
formidable.
Prudent in peace, and terrible in war. Prior.
Thou shalt not be affrighted at them; for the Lord thy God is among
you, a mighty God and terrible. Deut. vii. 21.

2. Excessive; extreme; severe. [Colloq.]
The terrible coldness of the season. Clarendon.

Syn.
 -- Terrific; fearful; frightful; formidable; dreadful; horrible;
shocking; awful.
 -- Ter"ri*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ter"ri*bly, adv.

TERRICOLAE
Ter*ric"o*læ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. terra + colere to inhabit.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of annelids including the common earthworms and
allied species.

TERRIENNIAK
Ter`ri*en"ni*ak, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The arctic fox.

TERRIER
Ter"ri*er, n. Etym: [CF. L. terere to rub, to rub away, terebra a
borer.]

Defn: An auger or borer. [Obs.]

TERRIER
Ter"ri*er, n.

1. Etym: [F. terrier, chien terrier, from terre the earth, L. terra;
cf. F. terrier a burrow, LL. terrarium a hillock (hence the sense, a
mound thrown up in making a burrow, a burrow). See Terrace, and cf.
Terrier, 2.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a breed of small dogs, which includes several distinct
subbreeds, some of which, such as the Skye terrier and Yorkshire
terrier, have long hair and drooping ears, while others, at the
English and the black-and-tan terriers, have short, close, smooth
hair and upright ears.

Note: Most kinds of terriers are noted for their courage, the
acuteness of their sense of smell, their propensity to hunt burrowing
animals, and their activity in destroying rats, etc. See Fox terrier,
under Fox.

2. Etym: [F. terrier, papier terrier, LL. terrarius liber, i.e., a
book belonging or pertaining to land or landed estates. See Terrier,
1, and cf. Terrar.] (Law)
(a) Formerly, a collection of acknowledgments of the vassals or
tenants of a lordship, containing the rents and services they owed to
the lord, and the like.
(b) In modern usage, a book or roll in which the lands of private
persons or corporations are described by their site, boundaries,
number of acres, or the like. [Written also terrar.]

TERRIFIC
Ter*rif"ic, a. Etym: [L. terrificus; fr. terrere to frighten + facere
to make. See Terror, and Fact.]

Defn: Causing terror; adapted to excite great fear or dread;
terrible; as, a terrific form; a terrific sight.

TERRIFICAL
Ter*rif"ic*al, a.

Defn: Terrific. [R.]

TERRIFICALLY
Ter*rif"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a terrific manner.

TERRIFY
Ter"ri*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Terrified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Terrifying.] Etym: [L. terrere to frighten + -fy: cf. F. terrifier,
L. terrificare. See Terrific, and -fy.]

1. To make terrible. [Obs.]
If the law, instead of aggravating and terrifying sin, shall give out
license, it foils itself. Milton.

2. To alarm or shock with fear; to frighten.
When ye shall hear of wars . . . be not terrified. Luke xxi. 9.

TERRIGENOUS
Ter*rig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. terrigena, terrigenus; terra the earth +
genere, gignere, to bring forth.]

Defn: Earthborn; produced by the earth.

TERRINE
Ter*rine", n. [F. See Tureen.]

1. A dish or pan, originally of earthenware, such as those in which
various dishes are cooked and served; esp., an earthenware jar
containing some table delicacy and sold with its contents.

2.  (Cookery) A kind of ragout formerly cooked and served in the same
dish; also, a dish consisting of several meats braised together and
served in a terrine.

3.  A soup tureen.

TERRITORIAL
Ter`ri*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. territorialis: cf. F. territorial.]

1. Of or pertaining to territory or land; as, territorial limits;
territorial jurisdiction.

2. Limited to a certain district; as, right may be personal or
territorial.

3. Of or pertaining to all or any of the Territories of the United
States, or to any district similarly organized elsewhere; as,
Territorial governments.

TERRITORIALIZE
Ter`ri*to"ri*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Territorialized; p. pr. &
vb. n. Territorializing.]

1. To enlarge by extension of territory.

2. To reduce to the condition of a territory.

TERRITORIALLY
Ter`ri*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In regard to territory; by means of territory.

TERRITORIAL WATERS
Ter`ri*to"ri*al wa"ters. (Internat. Law)

Defn: The waters under the territorial jurisdiction of a state;
specif., the belt (often called the marine belt or territorial sea)
of sea subject to such jurisdiction, and subject only to the right of
innocent passage by the vessels of other states.

Perhaps it may be said without impropriety that a state has
theoretically the right to extend its territorial waters from time to
time at its will with the increased range of guns. Whether it would
in practice be judicious to do so . . . is a widely different matter
. . . . In any case the custom of regulating a line three miles from
land as defining the boundary of marginal territorial waters is so
far fixed that a state must be supposed to accept it in absence of
express notice.
W. E. Hall.

TERRITORIED
Ter"ri*to*ried, a.

Defn: Possessed of territory. [R.]

TERRITORY
Ter"ri*to*ry, n.; pl. Territories. Etym: [L. territorium, from terra
the earth: cf. F. territoire. See Terrace.]

1. A large extent or tract of land; a region; a country; a district.
He looked, and saw wide territory spread Before him -- towns, and
rural works between. Milton.

2. The extent of land belonging to, or under the dominion of, a
prince, state, or other form of government; often, a tract of land
lying at a distance from the parent country or from the seat of
government; as, the territory of a State; the territories of the East
India Company.

3. In the United States, a portion of the country not included within
the limits of any State, and not yet admitted as a State into the
Union, but organized with a separate legislature, under a Territorial
governor and other officers appointed by the President and Senate of
the United States. In Canada, a similarly organized portion of the
country not yet formed into a Province.

TERROR
Ter"ror, n. Etym: [L. terror, akin to terrere to frighten, for
tersere; akin to Gr. tras to tremble, to be afraid, Russ. triasti to
shake: cf. F. terreur. Cf. Deter.]

1. Extreme fear; fear that agitates body and mind; violent dread;
fright.
Terror seized the rebel host. Milton.

2. That which excites dread; a cause of extreme fear.
Those enormous terrors of the Nile. Prior.
Rulers are not a terror to good works. Rom. xiii. 3.
There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats. Shak.

Note: Terror is used in the formation of compounds which are
generally self-explaining: as, terror-fraught, terror-giving, terror-
smitten, terror-stricken, terror-struck, and the like. King of
terrors, death. Job xviii. 14.
 -- Reign of Terror. (F. Hist.) See in Dictionary of Noted Names in
Fiction.

Syn.
 -- Alarm; fright; consternation; dread; dismay. See Alarm.

TERRORISM
Ter"ror*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. terrorisme.]

Defn: The act of terrorizing, or state of being terrorized; a mode of
government by terror or intimidation. Jefferson.

Defn: The practise of coercing governments to accede to political
demands by committing violence on civilian targets; any similar use
of violence to achieve goals.

TERRORIST
Ter"ror*ist, n. Etym: [F. terroriste.]

Defn: One who governs by terrorism or intimidation; specifically, an
agent or partisan of the revolutionary tribunal during the Reign of
Terror in France. Burke.

TERRORIZE
Ter"ror*ize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. terroriser.]

Defn: To impress with terror; to coerce by intimidation.
Humiliated by the tyranny of foreign despotism, and terrorized by
ecclesiastical authority. J. A. Symonds.

TERRORLESS
Ter"ror*less, a.

Defn: Free from terror. Poe.

TERRY
Ter"ry, n.

Defn: A kind of heavy colored fabric, either all silk, or silk and
worsted, or silk and cotton, often called terry velvet, used for
upholstery and trimmings.

TERSANCTUS
Ter*sanc"tus, n. Etym: [L. ter thrice + sanctus holy.] (Eccl.)

Defn: An ancient ascription of praise (containing the word "Holy" --
in its Latin form, "Sanctus" -- thrice repeated), used in the Mass of
the Roman Catholic Church and before the prayer of consecration in
the communion service of the Church of England and the Protestant
Episcopal Church. Cf. Trisagion.

TERSE
Terse, a. [Compar. Terser; superl. Tersest.] Etym: [L. tersus, p.p.
of tergere to rub or wipe off.]

1. Appearing as if rubbed or wiped off; rubbed; smooth; polished.
[Obs.]
Many stones, . . . although terse and smooth, have not this power
attractive. Sir T. Browne.

2. Refined; accomplished; -- said of persons. [R. & Obs.] "Your
polite and terse gallants." Massinger.

3. Elegantly concise; free of superfluous words; polished to
smoothness; as, terse language; a terse style.
Terse, luminous, and dignified eloquence. Macaulay.
A poet, too, was there, whose verse Was tender, musical, and terse.
Longfellow.

Syn.
 -- Neat; concise; compact. Terse, Concise. Terse was defined by
Johnson "cleanly written", i. e., free from blemishes, neat or
smooth. Its present sense is "free from excrescences," and hence,
compact, with smoothness, grace, or elegance, as in the following
lones of Whitehead: -
"In eight terse lines has Phædrus told (So frugal were the bards of
old) A tale of goats; and closed with grace, Plan, moral, all, in
that short space." It differs from concise in not implying, perhaps,
quite as much condensation, but chiefly in the additional idea of
"grace or elegance." -- Terse"ly, adv.
 -- Terse"ness, n.

TERSULPHIDE
Ter*sul"phide, n. Etym: [Pref. ter- + sulphide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A trisulphide.

TERSULPHURET
Ter*sul"phu*ret, n. Etym: [Pref. ter- + sulphuret.] (Chem.)

Defn: A trisulphide. [R.]

TER-TENANT
Ter"-ten`ant, n.

Defn: See Terre-tenant.

TERTIAL
Ter"tial, a. & n. Etym: [From L. tertius third, the tertial feathers
being feathers of the third row. See Tierce.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Tertiary.

TERTIAN
Ter"tian, a. Etym: [L. tertianus, from tertius the third. See
Tierce.] (Med.)

Defn: Occurring every third day; as, a tertian fever.

TERTIAN
Ter"tian, n. Etym: [L. tertiana (sc. febris): cf. OF. tertiane.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A disease, especially an intermittent fever, which returns
every third day, reckoning inclusively, or in which the intermission
lasts one day.

2. A liquid measure formerly used for wine, equal to seventy
imperial, or eighty-four wine, gallons, being one third of a tun.

TERTIARY
Ter"ti*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. tertiarius containing a third part, fr.
tertius third: cf. F. tertiaire. See Tierce.]

1. Being of the third formation, order, or rank; third; as, a
tertiary use of a word. Trench.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Possessing some quality in the third degree; having been
subjected to the substitution of three atoms or radicals; as, a
tertiary alcohol, amine, or salt. Cf. Primary, and Secondary.
(CH3)3C.OH.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: Later than, or subsequent to, the Secondary.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Growing on the innermost joint of a bird's wing; tertial; --
said of quills. Tertiary age. (Geol.) See under Age, 8.
 -- Tertiary color, a color produced by the mixture of two
secondaries. "The so-called tertiary colors are citrine, russet, and
olive." Fairholt.
 -- Tertiary period. (Geol.) (a) The first period of the age of
mammals, or of the Cenozoic era. (b) The rock formation of that
period; -- called also Tertiary formation. See the Chart of Geology.
 -- Tertiary syphilis (Med.), the third and last stage of syphilis,
in which it invades the bones and internal organs.

TERTIARY
Ter"ti*a*ry, n.; pl. Tertiaries (.

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A member of the Third Order in any monastic system; as, the
Franciscan tertiaries; the Dominican tertiaries; the Carmelite
tertiaries. See Third Order, under Third. Addis & Arnold.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: The Tertiary era, period, or formation.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the quill feathers which are borne upon the basal joint
of the wing of a bird. See Illust. of Bird.

TERTIATE
Ter"ti*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. tertiatus, p.p. of tertiare to do for the
third time, fr. tertius the third.]

1. To do or perform for the third time. [Obs. & R.] Johnson.

2. (Gun.)

Defn: To examine, as the thickness of the metal at the muzzle of a
gun; or, in general, to examine the thickness of, as ordnance, in
order to ascertain its strength.

TERTIUM QUID
Ter"ti*um quid. [L.]

Defn: A third somewhat; something mediating, or regarded as being,
between two diverse or incompatible substances, natures, or
positions.

TERUTERO
Ter`u*ter"o, n. Etym: [Probably so named from its city.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The South American lapwing (Vanellus Cayennensis). Its wings
are furnished with short spurs. Called also Cayenne lapwing.

TERZA RIMA
Ter"za ri"ma. Etym: [It., a third or triple rhyme.]

Defn: A peculiar and complicated system of versification, borrowed by
the early Italian poets from the Troubadours.

TERZETTO
Ter*zet"to, n. Etym: [It., dim. of terzo the third, L. tertius. See
Tierce.] (Mus.)

Defn: A composition in three voice parts; a vocal (rarely an
instrumental) trio.

TESLA COIL; TESLA TRANSFORMER
Tes"la coil, Tes"la trans*form"er. [After N. Tesla, American
electrician.] (Elec.)

Defn: A transformer without iron, for high frequency alternating or
oscillating currents; an oscillation transformer.

TESSELAR
Tes"sel*ar, a. Etym: [L. tessella a small square piece, a little
cube, dim. of tessera a square piece of stone, wood, etc., a die.]

Defn: Formed of tesseræ, as a mosaic.

TESSELLATA
Tes`sel*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Tessellate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Crinoidea including numerous fossil species in
which the body is covered with tessellated plates.

TESSELLATE
Tes"sel*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tessellated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tessellating.] Etym: [L. tessellatus tessellated. See Tessellar.]

Defn: To form into squares or checkers; to lay with checkered work.
The floors are sometimes of wood, tessellated after the fashion of
France. Macaulay.

TESSELLATE
Tes"sel*late, a. Etym: [L. tesselatus.]

Defn: Tessellated.

TESSELLATED
Tes"sel*la`ted, a.

1. Formed of little squares, as mosaic work; checkered; as, a
tessellated pavement.

2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Marked like a checkerboard; as, a tessellated leaf.

TESSELLATION
Tes`sel*la"tion, n.

Defn: The act of tessellating; also, the mosaic work so formed. J.
Forsyth.

TESSERA
Tes"se*ra, n.; pl. Tesseræ. Etym: [L., a square piece, a die. See
Tessellar.]

Defn: A small piece of marble, glass, earthenware, or the like,
having a square, or nearly square, face, used by the ancients for
mosaic, as for making pavements, for ornamenting walls, and like
purposes; also, a similar piece of ivory, bone, wood, etc., used as a
ticket of admission to theaters, or as a certificate for successful
gladiators, and as a token for various other purposes. Fairholt.

TESSERAIC
Tes`se*ra"ic, a.

Defn: Diversified by squares; done in mosaic; tessellated. [Obs.] Sir
R. Atkyns (1712).

TESSERAL
Tes"se*ral, a.

1. Of, pertaining to, or containing, tesseræ.

2. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Isometric.

TESSULAR
Tes"su*lar, a. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Tesseral.

TEST
Test, n. Etym: [OE. test test, or cupel, potsherd, F. têt, from L.
testum an earthen vessel; akin to testa a piece of burned clay, an
earthen pot, a potsherd, perhaps for tersta, and akin to torrere to
patch, terra earth (cf. Thirst, and Terrace), but cf. Zend tasta cup.
Cf. Test a shell, Testaceous, Tester a covering, a coin, Testy, Tête-
à-tête.]

1. (Metal.)

Defn: A cupel or cupelling hearth in which precious metals are melted
for trial and refinement.
Our ingots, tests, and many mo. Chaucer.

2. Examination or trial by the cupel; hence, any critical examination
or decisive trial; as, to put a man's assertions to a test. "Bring me
to the test." Shak.

3. Means of trial; as, absence is a test of love.
Each test every light her muse will bear. Dryden.

4. That with which anything is compared for proof of its genuineness;
a touchstone; a standard.
Life, force, and beauty must to all impart, At once the source, and
end, and test of art. Pope.

5. Discriminative characteristic; standard of judgment; ground of
admission or exclusion.
Our test excludes your tribe from benefit. Dryden.

6. Judgment; distinction; discrimination.
Who would excel, when few can make a test Betwixt indifferent writing
and the best Dryden.

7. (Chem.)

Defn: A reaction employed to recognize or distinguish any particular
substance or constituent of a compound, as the production of some
characteristic precipitate; also, the reagent employed to produce
such reaction; thus, the ordinary test for sulphuric acid is the
production of a white insoluble precipitate of barium sulphate by
means of some soluble barium salt. Test act (Eng. Law), an act of the
English Parliament prescribing a form of oath and declaration against
transubstantiation, which all officers, civil and military, were
formerly obliged to take within six months after their admission to
office. They were obliged also to receive the sacrament according to
the usage of the Church of England. Blackstone.
 -- Test object (Optics), an object which tests the power or quality
of a microscope or telescope, by requiring a certain degree of
excellence in the instrument to determine its existence or its
peculiar texture or markings.
 -- Test paper. (a) (Chem.) Paper prepared for use in testing for
certain substances by being saturated with a reagent which changes
color in some specific way when acted upon by those substances; thus,
litmus paper is turned red by acids, and blue by alkalies, turmeric
paper is turned brown by alkalies, etc. (b) (Law) An instrument
admitted as a standard or comparison of handwriting in those
jurisdictions in which comparison of hands is permitted as a mode of
proving handwriting.
 -- Test tube. (Chem.) (a) A simple tube of thin glass, closed at one
end, for heating solutions and for performing ordinary reactions. (b)
A graduated tube.

Syn.
 -- Criterion; standard; experience; proof; experiment; trial.
 -- Test, Trial. Trial is the wider term; test is a searching and
decisive trial. It is derived from the Latin testa (earthen pot),
which term was early applied to the fining pot, or crucible, in which
metals are melted for trial and refinement. Hence the peculiar force
of the word, as indicating a trial or criterion of the most decisive
kind.
I leave him to your gracious acceptance, whose trial shall better
publish his commediation. Shak.
Thy virtue, prince, has stood the test of fortune, Like purest gold,
that tortured in the furnace, Comes out more bright, and brings forth
all its weight. Addison.

TEST
Test, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tested; p. pr. & vb. n. Testing.]

1. (Metal.)

Defn: To refine, as gold or silver, in a test, or cupel; to subject
to cupellation.

2. To put to the proof; to prove the truth, genuineness, or quality
of by experiment, or by some principle or standard; to try; as, to
test the soundness of a principle; to test the validity of an
argument.
Experience is the surest standard by which to test the real tendency
of the existing constitution. Washington.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: To examine or try, as by the use of some reagent; as, to test a
solution by litmus paper.

TEST
Test, n. Etym: [L. testis. Cf. Testament, Testify.]

Defn: A witness. [Obs.]
Prelates and great lords of England, who were for the more surety
tests of that deed. Ld. Berners.

TEST
Test, v. i. Etym: [L. testari. See Testament.]

Defn: To make a testament, or will. [Obs.]

TEST; TESTA
Test, Tes"ta, n.; pl. E. Tests, L. Testæ. Etym: [L. testa a piece of
burned clay, a broken piece of earthenware, a shell. See Test a
cupel.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The external hard or firm covering of many invertebrate
animals.

Note: The test of crustaceans and insects is composed largely of
chitin; in mollusks it is composed chiefly of calcium carbonate, and
is called the shell.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The outer integument of a seed; the episperm, or spermoderm.

TESTABLE
Test"a*ble, a. Etym: [See Testament.]

1. Capable of being tested or proved.

2. Capable of being devised, or given by will.

TESTACEA
Tes*ta"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. testaceum a shelled anumal.
See Testaceous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Invertebrate animals covered with shells, especially mollusks;
shellfish.

TESTACEAN
Tes*ta"cean, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Onr of the Testacea.

TESTACEOGRAPHY
Tes*ta`ce*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Testacea + -graphy: cf. F.
testacéographie.]

Defn: The science which treats of testaceans, or shellfish; the
description of shellfish. [R.]

TESTACEOLOGY
Tes*ta`ce*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Testacea + -logy: cf. F. testacéologie.]

Defn: The science of testaceous mollusks; conchology. [R.]

TESTACEOUS
Tes*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. testaceus, fr. testa a shell. See Testa.]

1. Of or pertaining to shells; consisted of a hard shell, or having a
hard shell.

2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a dull red brick color or a brownish yellow color.
Testaceous animals (Zoöl.), animals having a firm, calcareous shell,
as oysters and clams, thus distinguished from crustaceous animals,
whose shells are more thin and soft, and consist of several joints,
or articulations, as lobsters and crabs.

TESTACY
Tes"ta*cy, n. Etym: [See Testate.] (Law)

Defn: The state or circumstance of being testate, or of leaving a
valid will, or testament, at death.

TESTAMENT
Tes"ta*ment, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. testamentum, fr. testari to be a
witness, to make one's last will, akin to testis a witness. Cf.
Intestate, Testify.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A solemn, authentic instrument in writing, by which a person
declares his will as to disposal of his estate and effects after his
death.

Note: This is otherwise called a will, and sometimes a last will and
testament. A testament, to be valid, must be made by a person of
sound mind; and it must be executed and published in due form of law.
A man, in certain cases, may make a valid will by word of mouth only.
See Nuncupative will, under Nuncupative.

2. One of the two distinct revelations of God's purposes toward man;
a covenant; also, one of the two general divisions of the canonical
books of the sacred Scriptures, in which the covenants are
respectively revealed; as, the Old Testament; the New Testament; --
often limited, in colloquial language, to the latter.
He is the mediator of the new testament . . . for the redemption of
the transgressions that were under the first testament. Heb. ix. 15.
Holographic testament, a testament written wholly by the testator
himself. Bouvier.

TESTAMENTAL
Tes`ta*men"tal, a. Etym: [L. testamentalis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a testament; testamentary.
Thy testamental cup I take, And thus remember thee. J. Montgomery.

TESTAMENTARY
Tes`ta*men"ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. testamentarius: cf. F. testamentaire.]

1. Of or pertaining to a will, or testament; as, letters
testamentary.

2. Bequeathed by will; given by testament.
How many testamentary charities have been defeated by the negligence
or fraud of executors! Atterbury.

3. Done, appointed by, or founded on, a testament, or will; as, a
testamentary guardian of a minor, who may be appointed by the will of
a father to act in that capacity until the child becomes of age.

TESTAMENTATION
Tes`ta*men*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act or power of giving by testament, or will. [R.] Burke.

TESTAMENTIZE
Tes"ta*men*tize, v. i.

Defn: To make a will. [Obs.] Fuller.

TESTAMUR
Tes*ta"mur, n. Etym: [L., we testify, fr. testari to testify.] (Eng.
Universities)

Defn: A certificate of merit or proficiency; -- so called from the
Latin words, Ita testamur, with which it commences.

TESTATE
Tes"tate, a. Etym: [L. testatus, p.p. of testari. See Testament.]
(Law)

Defn: Having made and left a will; as, a person is said to die
testate. Ayliffe.

TESTATE
Tes"tate, n. (Law)

Defn: One who leaves a valid will at death; a testate person. [R.]

TESTATION
Tes*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. testatio.]

Defn: A witnessing or witness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

TESTATOR
Tes*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. testateur.] (Law)

Defn: A man who makes and leaves a will, or testament, at death.

TESTATRIX
Tes*ta"trix, n. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: A woman who makes and leaves a will at death; a female
testator.

TESTE
Tes"te, n. Etym: [So called fr. L. teste, abl. of testis a witness,
because this was formerly the initial word in the clause.] (Law)
(a) A witness.
(b) The witnessing or concluding clause, duty attached; -- said of a
writ, deed, or the like. Burrill.

TESTER
Tes"ter, n. Etym: [OE. testere a headpiece, helmet, OF. testiere, F.
têtière a head covering, fr. OF. teste the head, F. tête, fr. L.
testa an earthen pot, the skull. See Test a cupel, and cf. Testière.]

1. A headpiece; a helmet. [Obs.]
The shields bright, testers, and trappures. Chaucer.

2. A flat canopy, as over a pulpit or tomb. Oxf. Gross.

3. A canopy over a bed, supported by the bedposts.
No testers to the bed, and the saddles and portmanteaus heaped on me
to keep off the cold. Walpole.

TESTER
Tes"ter, n. Etym: [For testern, teston, fr. F. teston, fr. OF. teste
the head, the head of the king being impressed upon the coin. See
Tester a covering, and cf. Testone, Testoon.]

Defn: An old French silver coin, originally of the value of about
eighteen pence, subsequently reduced to ninepence, and later to
sixpence, sterling. Hence, in modern English slang, a sixpence; --
often contracted to tizzy. Called also teston. Shak.

TESTERN
Tes"tern, n.

Defn: A sixpence; a tester. [Obs.]

TESTERN
Tes"tern, v. t.

Defn: To present with a tester. [Obs.] Shak.

TESTES
Tes"tes, n.,

Defn: pl. of Teste, or of Testis.

TESTICARDINES
Tes`ti*car"di*nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Test a shell, and Cardo.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of brachiopods including those which have a
calcareous shell furnished with a hinge and hinge teeth. Terebratula
and Spirifer are examples.

TESTICLE
Tes"ti*cle, n. Etym: [L. testiculus, dim. of testis a testicle,
probably the same word as testis a witness, as being a witness to
manhood. Cf. Test a witness.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the essential male genital glands which secrete the
semen.

TESTICOND
Tes"ti*cond, a. Etym: [L. testis testis + condere to hide.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the testicles naturally concealed, as in the case of the
cetaceans.

TESTICULAR
Tes*tic"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the testicle.

TESTICULATE
Tes*tic"u*late, a. Etym: [NL. testiculatus.] (Bot.)
(a) Shaped like a testicle, ovate and solid.
(b) Having two tubers resembling testicles in form, as some species
of orchis.

TESTIERE
Tes`ti*ère", n. Etym: [OF. testiere. See Tester a headpiece.]

Defn: A piece of plate armor for the head of a war horse; a tester.

TESTIF
Tes"tif, a. Etym: [See Testy.]

Defn: Testy; headstrong; obstinate. [Obs.]
Testif they were and lusty for to play. Chaucer.

TESTIFICATION
Tes`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. testificatio: cf. OF. testification.
See Testify.]

Defn: The act of testifying, or giving testimony or evidence; as, a
direct testification of our homage to God. South.

TESTIFICATOR
Tes"ti*fi*ca`tor, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A testifier.

TESTIFIER
Tes"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who testifies; one who gives testimony, or bears witness to
prove anything; a witness.

TESTIFY
Tes"ti*fy, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Testified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Testifying.] Etym: [OF. testifier, L. testificari; testis a witness +
-ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy, and cf. Attest, Contest, Detest,
Protest, Testament.]

1. To make a solemn declaration, verbal or written, to establish some
fact; to give testimony for the purpose of communicating to others a
knowledge of something not known to them.
Jesus . . . needed not that any should testify of man, for he knew
what was in man. John ii. 25.

2. (Law)

Defn: To make a solemn declaration under oath or affirmation, for the
purpose of establishing, or making proof of, some fact to a court; to
give testimony in a cause depending before a tribunal.
One witness shall not testify against any person to cause him to die.
Num. xxxv. 30.

3. To declare a charge; to protest; to give information; to bear
witness; -- with against.
O Israel, . . . I will testify against thee. Ps. l. 7.
I testified against them in the day wherein they sold victuals. Neh.
xiii. 15.

TESTIFY
Tes"ti*fy, v. t.

1. To bear witness to; to support the truth of by testimony; to
affirm or declare solemny.
We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye
receive not our witness. John iii. 11.

2. (Law)

Defn: To affirm or declare under oath or affirmation before a
tribunal, in order to prove some fact.

TESTIFY
Tes"ti*fy, adv.

Defn: In a testy manner; fretfully; peevishly; with petulance.

TESTIMONIAL
Tes`ti*mo"ni*al, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. testimoniale, LL. testimonialis,
L. testimoniales (sc. litteræ). See Testimonial, a.]

1. A writing or certificate which bears testimony in favor of one's
character, good conduct, ability, etc., or of the value of a thing.

2. Something, as money or plate, presented to a preson as a token of
respect, or of obligation for services rendered.

TESTIMONIAL
Tes`ti*mo"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. testimonialis: cf. F. testimonial.]

Defn: Relating to, or containing, testimony.

TESTIMONY
Tes"ti*mo*ny, n.; pl. Testimonies. Etym: [L. testimonium, from testis
a witness: cf. OF. testimoine, testemoine, testimonie. See Testify.]

1. A solemn declaration or affirmation made for the purpose of
establishing or proving some fact.

Note: Such declaration, in judicial proceedings, may be verbal or
written, but must be under oath or affirmation.

2. Affirmation; declaration; as, these doctrines are supported by the
uniform testimony of the fathers; the belief of past facts must
depend on the evidence of human testimony, or the testimony of
historians.

3. Open attestation; profession.
[Thou] for the testimony of truth, hast borne Universal reproach.
Milton.

4. Witness; evidence; proof of some fact.
When ye depart thence, shake off the dust under your feet for a
testimony against them. Mark vi. 11.

5. (Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: The two tables of the law.
Thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee.
Ex. xxv. 16.

6. Hence, the whole divine revelation; the sacre
The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. Ps. xix.
7.

Syn.
 -- Proof; evidence; attestation; witness; affirmation; confirmation;
averment.
 -- Testimony, Proof, Evidence. Proof is the most familiar, and is
used more frequently (though not exclusively) of facts and things
which occur in the ordinary concerns of life. Evidence is a word of
more dignity, and is more generally applied to that which is moral or
intellectual; as, the evidences of Christianity, etc. Testimony is
what is deposed to by a witness on oath or affirmation. When used
figuratively or in a wider sense, the word testimony has still a
reference to some living agent as its author, as when we speak of the
testimony of conscience, or of doing a thing in testimony of our
affection, etc. Testimony refers rather to the thing declared,
evidence to its value or effect. "To conform our language more to
common use, we ought to divide arguments into demonstrations, proofs,
and probabilities; ba proofs, meaning such arguments from experience
as leave no room for doubt or opposition." Hume. "The evidence of
sense is the first and highest kind of evidence of which human nature
is capable." Bp. Wilkins. "The proof of everything must be by the
testimony of such as the parties produce." Spenser.

TESTIMONY
Tes"ti*mo*ny, v. t.

Defn: To witness; to attest; to prove by testimony. [Obs.] Shak.

TESTINESS
Tes"ti*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being testy; fretfulness; petulance.
Testiness is a disposition or aptness to be angry. Locke.

TESTING
Test"ing, n.

1. The act of testing or proving; trial; proof.

2. (Metal.)

Defn: The operation of refining gold or silver in a test, or cupel;
cupellation. Testing machine (Engin.), a machine used in the
determination of the strength of materials, as iron, stone, etc., and
their behavior under strains of various kinds, as elongation,
bending, crushing, etc.

TESTIS
Tes"tis, n.; pl. Testes. Etym: [L.] (Anat.)

Defn: A testicle.

TESTON
Tes"ton, n.

Defn: A tester; a sixpence. [Obs.]

TESTONE
Tes*tone", n. Etym: [Cf. Pg. testao, tostao. See Testoon.]

Defn: A silver coin of Portugal, worth about sixpence sterling, or
about eleven cents. Homans.

TESTOON
Tes*toon", n. Etym: [It. testone. See Tester a coin.]

Defn: An Italian silver coin. The testoon of Rome is worth 1s. 3d.
sterling, or about thirty cents. Homans.

TESTUDINAL
Tes*tu"di*nal, a. Etym: [See Testudo.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a tortoise.

TESTUDINARIOUS
Tes*tu`di*na"ri*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the shell of a tortoise; resembling a
tortoise shell; having the color or markings of a tortoise shell.

TESTUDINATA
Tes*tu`di*na"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Nl. See Testudo.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of reptiles which includes the turtles and tortoises.
The body is covered by a shell consisting of an upper or dorsal
shell, called the carapace, and a lower or ventral shell, called the
plastron, each of which consists of several plates.

TESTUDINATE; TESTUDINATED
Tes*tu"di*nate, Tes*tu"di*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. testudinatus, fr.
testudo, -inis, a tortoise, an arch or vault.]

Defn: Resembling a tortoise shell in appearance or structure; roofed;
arched; vaulted.

TESTUDINEOUS
Tes`tu*din"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. testudineus.]

Defn: Resembling the shell of a tortoise.

TESTUDO
Tes*tu"do, n.; pl. Testudines. Etym: [L., from testa the shell of
shellfish, or of testaceous animals.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of tortoises which formerly included a large number of
diverse forms, but is now restricted to certain terrestrial species,
such as the European land tortoise (Testudo Græca) and the gopher of
the Southern United States.

2. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A cover or screen which a body of troops formed with their
shields or targets, by holding them over their heads when standing
close to each other. This cover resembled the back of a tortoise, and
served to shelter the men from darts, stones, and other missiles. A
similar defense was sometimes formed of boards, and moved on wheels.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of musical instrument. a species of lyre; -- so called
in allusion to the lyre of Mercury, fabled to have been made of the
shell of a tortoise.

TESTY
Tes"ty, a. [Compar. Testier; superl. Testiest.] Etym: [OF. testu
obstinate, headstrong, F. têtu, fr. OF. teste the head, F. tête. See
Test a cupel.]

Defn: Fretful; peevish; petulant; easily irritated.
Must I observe you must I stand and crouch Under your testy humor
Shak.
I was displeased with myself; I was testy. Latimer.

TETANIC
Te*tan"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. L. tetanicus suffering from tetanus, Gr.
tétanique.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to tetanus; having the character of tetanus;
as, a tetanic state; tetanic contraction.
This condition of muscle, this fusion of a number of simple spasms
into an apparently smooth, continuous effort, is known as tetanus, or
tetanic contraction. Foster.

2. (Physiol. & Med.)

Defn: Producing, or tending to produce, tetanus, or tonic contraction
of the muscles; as, a tetanic remedy. See Tetanic, n.

TETANIC
Te*tan"ic, n. (Physiol. & Med.)

Defn: A substance (notably nux vomica, strychnine, and brucine)
which, either as a remedy or a poison, acts primarily on the spinal
cord, and which, when taken in comparatively large quantity, produces
tetanic spasms or convulsions.

TETANIN
Tet"a*nin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous base (ptomaine) formed in meat broth through the
agency of a peculiar microbe from the wound of a person who has died
of tetanus; -- so called because it produces tetanus as one of its
prominent effects.

TETANIZATION
Tet`a*ni*za"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The production or condition of tetanus.

TETANIZE
Tet"a*nize, v. t. (Physiol.)

Defn: To throw, as a muscle, into a state of permanent contraction;
to cause tetanus in. See Tetanus, n., 2.

TETANOID
Tet"a*noid, a. Etym: [Tetanus + -oid.] (Med. & Physiol.)

Defn: Resembling tetanus.

TETANOMOTOR
Tet`a*no*mo"tor, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument from tetanizing a muscle by irritating its nerve
by successive mechanical shocks.

TETANUS
Tet"a*nus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: A painful and usually fatal disease, resulting generally from a
wound, and having as its principal symptom persistent spasm of the
voluntary muscles. When the muscles of the lower jaw are affected, it
is called locked-jaw, or lickjaw, and it takes various names from the
various incurvations of the body resulting from the spasm.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: That condition of a muscle in which it is in a state of
continued vibratory contraction, as when stimulated by a series of
induction shocks.

TETANY
Tet"a*ny, n. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition resembling tetanus, but distinguished from
it by being less severe and having intermittent spasms.

TETARD
Te*tard", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gobioid fish (Eleotris gyrinus) of the Southern United
States; -- called also sleeper.

TETARTOHEDRAL
Te*tar`to*he"dral, a. Etym: [Gr. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Having one fourth the number of planes which are requisite to
complete symmetry.
 -- Te*tar`to*he"dral*ly, adv.

TETARTOHEDRISM
Te*tar`to*he"drism, n. (Crystallog.)

Defn: The property of being tetartohedral.

TETAUG
Te*taug", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Tautog. [R.]

TETCHINESS
Tetch"i*ness, n.

Defn: See Techiness.

TETCHY
Tetch"y, a.

Defn: See Techy. Shak.

TETE
Tête, n. Etym: [F., the head. See Tester a covering.]

Defn: A kind of wig; false hair.

TETE-A-TETE
Tête`-à-tête", n. Etym: [F., head to head. See Tester a covering,
Test a cupel.]

1. Private conversation; familiar interview or conference of two
persons.

2. A short sofa intended to accomodate two persons.

TETE-A-TETE
Tête`-à-tête", a.

Defn: Private; confidential; familiar.
She avoided tête-à-tête walks with him. C. Kingsley.

TETE-A-TETE
Tête`-à-tête", adv.

Defn: Face to face; privately or confidentially; familiarly. Prior.

TETE-DE-PONT
Tête`-de-pont", n.; pl. Têtes-de-pont. Etym: [F., head of a bridge.]
(Mil.)

Defn: A work thrown up at the end of a bridge nearest the enemy, for
covering the communications across a river; a bridgehead.

TETEL
Te*tel", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large African antelope (Alcejaphus tora). It has widely
divergent, strongly ringed horns.

TETHER
Teth"er, n. Etym: [Formerly tedder, OE. tedir; akin to LG. tider,
tier, Icel. tjo, Dan. töir. *64.]

Defn: A long rope or chain by which an animal is fastened, as to a
stake, so that it can range or feed only within certain limits.

TETHER
Teth"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tethered; p. pr. & vb. n. Tethering.]

Defn: To confine, as an animal, with a long rope or chain, as for
feeding within certain limits.
And by a slender cord was tethered to a stone. Wordsworth.

TETHER-BALL
Teth"er-ball`, n.

Defn: A game played with rackets and a ball suspended by a string
from an upright pole, the object of each side being to wrap the
string around the pole by striking the ball in a direction opposite
to the other.

TETHYDAN
Te*thy"dan, n. Etym: [See Tethys.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tunicate.

TETHYODEA
Te`thy*o"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Tethys + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Tunicata including the common attached ascidians,
both simple and compound. Called also Tethioidea.

TETHYS
Te"thys, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of a large naked mollusks having a very large, broad,
fringed cephalic disk, and branched dorsal gills. Some of the species
become a foot long and are brilliantly colored.

TETRA-
Tet"ra-. Etym: [Gr. Four.]

1. A combining form or prefix signifying four, as in tetrabasic,
tetrapetalous.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting four
proportional or combining parts of the substance or ingredient
denoted by the term to which it is prefixed, as in tetra-chloride,
tetroxide.

TETRABASIC
Tet`ra*bas"ic, a. Etym: [Tetra- + basic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Capable of neutralizing four molecules of a monacid base;
having four hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by bases;
quadribasic; -- said of certain acids; thus, normal silicic acid,
Si(OH)4, is a tetrabasic acid.

TETRABORIC
Tet`ra*bor"ic, a. Etym: [Tetra- + boric.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Pyroboric.

TETRABRANCHIATA
Tet`ra*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Tetra-, and Branchia.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Cephalopoda having four gills. Among living species
it includes only the pearly nautilus. Numerous genera and species are
found in the fossil state, such as Ammonites, Baculites, Orthoceras,
etc.

TETRABRANCHIATE
Tet`ra*bran`chi*ate, a. Etym: [Tetra + branchiate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Tetrabranchiata.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Tetrabranchiata.

TETRACARPEL
Tet`ra*car"pel, a. Etym: [Tetra- + carpellary.] (Bot.)

Defn: Composed of four carpels.

TETRACHORD
Tet"ra*chord, n. Etym: [L. tetrachordon, Gr. Tetra-) + tétrachorde.]
(Anc. Mus.)

Defn: A scale series of four sounds, of which the extremes, or first
and last, constituted a fourth. These extremes were immutable; the
two middle sounds were changeable.

TETRACHOTOMOUS
Tet`ra*chot"o*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a division by fours; separated into four parts or
series, or into series of fours.

TETRACID
Tet*rac"id, a. Etym: [Tetra + acid.] (Chem.)

Defn: Capable of neutralizing four molecules of a monobasic acid;
having four hydrogen atoms capable of replacement ba acids or acid
atoms; -- said of certain bases; thus, erythrine, C4H6(OH)4, is a
tetracid alcohol.

TETRACOCCOUS
Tet`ra*coc"cous, a. Etym: [See Tetra-, and Coccus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having four cocci, or carpels.

TETRACOLON
Tet`ra*co"lon, n. Etym: [Gr. Tetra-) + (Pros.)

Defn: A stanza or division in lyric poetry, consisting of four verses
or lines. Crabb.

TETRACORALLA
Te`tra*co*ral"la, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Tetra-, and Corallum.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: Same as Rugosa.

TETRACTINELLID
Te*trac`ti*nel"lid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of sponge of the division Tetractinellida. Also
used adjectively.

TETRACTINELLIDA
Te*trac`ti*nel"li*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Spongiæ in which the spicules are siliceous and
have four branches diverging at right angles. Called also
Tetractinellinæ.

TETRAD
Tet"rad, n. Etym: [L. tetras, -adis, Gr. tétrade.]

1. The number four; a collection of four things; a quaternion.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A tetravalent or quadrivalent atom or radical; as, carbon is a
tetrad.

TETRADACTYL; TETRADACTYLE
Tet`ra*dac"tyl, Tet`ra*dac"tyle, a. Etym: [Cf. F. tétradactyle.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Tetradactylous.

TETRADACTYLOUS
Tet`ra*dac"tyl*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. Tetra-) + (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having, or characterized by, four digits to the foot or hand.

TETRADECANE
Tet`ra*dec"ane, n. Etym: [Tetra- + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A light oily hydrocarbon, C14H30, of the marsh-gas series; --
so called from the fourteen carbon atoms in the molecule.

TETRADECAPODA
Tet`ra*de*cap"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Tetra-, and Decapoda.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Arthrostraca.

TETRADIC
Tet*rad"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tetrad; possessing or having the
characteristics of a tetrad; as, a carbon is a tetradic element.

TETRADITE
Tet"ra*dite, n. Etym: [See Tetrad.]

Defn: A person in some way remarkable with regard to the number four,
as one born on the fourth day of the month, or one who reverenced
four persons in the Godhead. Smart.

TETRADON
Tet"ra*don, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Tetrodon.

TETRADONT
Tet"ra*dont, a. & n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Tetrodont.

TETRADRACHM; TETRADRACHMA
Tet"ra*drachm, Tet`ra*drach"ma, n. Etym: [NL. tetradrachma, fr. Gr.
Tetra-) +

Defn: A silver coin among the ancient Greeks, of the value of four
drachms. The Attic tetradrachm was equal to 3s. 3d. sterling, or
about 76 cents.

TETRADYMITE
Tet*rad"y*mite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A telluride of bismuth. It is of a pale steel-gray color and
metallic luster, and usually occurs in foliated masses. Calles also
telluric bismuth.

TETRADYNAMIA
Tet`ra*dy*na"mi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Tetra-) + (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants having six stamens, four of which are
longer than the others.

TETRADYNAMIAN
Tet`ra*dy*na"mi*an, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the order Tetradynamia.

TETRADYNAMIAN; TETRADYNAMOUS
Tet`ra*dy*na"mi*an, Tet`ra*dyn"a*mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to the order Tetradynamia; having six stamens, four
of which are uniformly longer than the others.

TETRAGON
Tet"ra*gon, n. Etym: [L. tetragonum, Gr. Tetra-) + tétragone.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A plane figure having four sides and angles; a quadrangle, as a
square, a rhombus, etc.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: An aspect of two planets with regard to the earth when they are
distant from each other ninety degrees, or the fourth of a circle.
Hutton.

TETRAGONAL
Te*trag"o*nal, a.

1. (Geom.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tetragon; having four angles or sides;
thus, the square, the parallelogram, the rhombus, and the trapezium
are tetragonal fingers.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having four prominent longitudinal angles.

3. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Designating, or belonging to, a certain system of
crystallization; dimetric. See Tetragonal system, under
Crystallization.

TETRAGRAMMATON
Tet`ra*gram"ma*ton, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Tetra-) +

Defn: The mystic number four, which was often symbolized to represent
the Deity, whose name was expressed by four letters among some
ancient nations; as, the Hebrew JeHoVaH, Greek qeo`s, Latin deus,
etc.

TETRAGYNIA
Tet`ra*gyn"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. te`tra- (see Tetra-) +
gynh` a woman, female.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan order of plants having four styles.

TETRAGYNIAN; TETRAGYNOUS
Tet`ra*gyn"i*an, Te*trag"y*nous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to the order Tetragynia; having four styles.

TETRAHEDRAL
Tet`ra*he"dral, a. Etym: [See Tetrahedron.]

1. Having, or composed of, four sides.

2. (Crystallog.)
(a) Having the form of the regular tetrahedron.
(b) Pertaining or related to a tetrahedron, or to the system of
hemihedral forms to which the tetrahedron belongs. Tetrahedral angle
(Geom.), a solid angle bounded or inclosed by four plane angles.

TETRAHEDRALLY
Tet`ra*he"dral*ly, adv.

Defn: In a tetrahedral manner.

TETRAHEDRITE
Tet`ra*he"drite, n. Etym: [So called because the crystals of the
species are commonly tetrahedrons.] (Min.)

Defn: A sulphide of antimony and copper, with small quantities of
other metals. It is a very common ore of copper, and some varieties
yield a considerable presentage of silver. Called also gray copper
ore, fahlore, and panabase.

TETRAHEDRON
Tet`ra*he"dron, n. Etym: [Tetra- + Gr. (Geom.)

Defn: A solid figure inclosed or bounded by four triangles.

Note: In crystallography, the regular tetrahedron is regarded as the
hemihedral form of the regular octahedron. Regular tetrahedron
(Geom.), a solid bounded by four equal equilateral triangles; one of
the five regular solids.

TETRAHEXAHEDRAL
Tet`ra*hex`a*he"dral, a. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Pertaining to a tetrahexahedron.

TETRAHEXAHEDRON
Tet`ra*hex`a*he"dron, n. Etym: [Tetra- + hexahedron.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A solid in the isometric system, bounded by twenty-four equal
triangular faces, four corresponding to each face of the cube.

TETRAKISHEXAHEDRON
Tet`ra*kis*hex`a*he"dron, n. Etym: [Gr. hexahedron.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A tetrahexahedron.

TETRAKOSANE
Tet"ra*ko*sane`, n. Etym: [Tetra- + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon, C24H50, resembling paraffin, and like it
belonging to the marsh-gas series; -- so called from having twenty-
four atoms of carbon in the molecule.

TETRALOGY
Te*tral"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. Tetra-) + tétralogie.] (Gr. Drama)

Defn: A group or series of four dramatic pieces, three tragedies and
one satyric, or comic, piece (or sometimes four tragedies),
represented consequently on the Attic stage at the Dionysiac
festival.

Note: A group or series of three tragedies, exhibited together
without a fourth piese, was called a trilogy.

TETRAMERA
Te*tram"e*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Tetramerous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Coleoptera having, apparently, only four tarsal
joints, one joint being rudimentary.

TETRAMEROUS
Te*tram"er*ous, a. Etym: [Tetra- + Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the parts arranged in sets of four; as, a tetramerous
flower.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having four joints in each of the tarsi; -- said of certain
insects.

TETRAMETER
Te*tram"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. tetrametrus, Gr. Tetra-) + tétramètre.]
(GR. & Latin Pros.)

Defn: A verse or line consisting of four measures, that is, in
iambic, trochaic, and anapestic verse, of eight feet; in other kinds
of verse, of four feet.

TETRAMETHYLENE
Tet`ra*meth"yl*ene, n. Etym: [Tetra- + methylene.] (Chem.)
(a) A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H8, analogous to trimethylene, and
regarded as the base of well-known series or derivatives.
(b) Sometimes, an isomeric radical used to designate certain
compounds which are really related to butylene.

TETRAMORPH
Tet"ra*morph, n. Etym: [Tetra- + Gr. (Christian Art)

Defn: The union of the four attributes of the Evangelists in one
figure, which is represented as winged, and standing on winged fiery
wheels, the wings being covered with eyes. The representations of it
are evidently suggested by the vision of Ezekiel (ch. i.)

TETRANDRIA
Te*tran"dri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. Tetra-) + (Bot.)

Defn: A Linnæan class of plants having four stamens.

TETRANDRIAN; TETRANDROUS
Te*tran"dri*an, Te*tran"drous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to the class Tetrandria.

TETRAONID
Te*tra"o*nid, n. Etym: [L. tetrao a heath cock, grouse, Gr.
tétraonide.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird belonging to the tribe of which the genus Tetrao is the
type, as the grouse, partridge, quail, and the like. Used also
adjectively.

TETRAPETALOUS
Tet`ra*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Tetra- + petal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Containing four distinct petals, or flower leaves; as, a
tetrapetalous corolla.

TETRAPHARMACOM; TETRAPHARMACUM
Tet`ra*phar"ma*com, Tet`ra*phar"ma*cum, n. Etym: [NL. tetrapharmacon,
L. tetrapharmacum, Gr. Tetra-) + (Med.)

Defn: A combination of wax, resin, lard, and pitch, composing an
ointment. Brande & C.

TETRAPHENOL
Tet`ra*phe"nol, n. Etym: [Tetra- + phenol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Furfuran. [Obs.]

TETRAPHYLLOUS
Te*traph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Tetra- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having four leaves; consisting of four distinct leaves or
leaflets.

TETRAPLA
Tet"ra*pla, n.;

Note: etymologically pl., but syntactically sing. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
tetraplo`os, tetraploy^s, fourfold.]

Defn: A Bible consisting of four different Greek versions arranged in
four columns by Origen; hence, any version in four languages or four
columns.

TETRAPNEUMONA
Tet`ra*pneu"mo*na, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Tetra-, and Pneumo-.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Arachnida including those spiders which have four
lungs, or pulmonary sacs. It includes the bird spiders (Mygale) and
the trapdoor spiders. See Mygale.

TETRAPNUEMONIAN
Tet`rap*nue*mo"ni*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Tetrapneumona.

TETRAPOD
Tet"ra*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. Tetra-) + (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect characterized by having but four perfect legs, as
certain of the butterflies.

TETRAPODY
Te*trap"o*dy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A set of four feet; a measure or distance of four feet.

TETRAPTERAN
Te*trap"ter*an, n. Etym: [See Tetrapterous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect having four wings.

TETRAPTEROUS
Te*trap"ter*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. Tetra-) + (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having four wings.

TETRAPTOTE
Tet"rap*tote, n. Etym: [L. tetraptotum, Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A noun that has four cases only. Andrews.

TETRARCH
Te"trarch, n. Etym: [L. tetrarches, Gr. Tetra-) + tétrarque. See
Arch, a.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A Roman governor of the fourth part of a province; hence, any
subordinate or dependent prince; also, a petty king or sovereign.

TETRARCH
Te"trarch, a.

Defn: Four. [Obs.] Fuller.

TETRARCHATE
Te*trarch"ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tétrarchat.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A tetrarchy.

TETRARCHICAL
Te*trarch"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tetrarch or tetrarchy. Bolingbroke.

TETRARCHY
Tet"rarch*y, n.; pl. Tetrarchies. Etym: [L. tetrarchia, Gr.
tétrarchie.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: The district under a Roman tetrarch; the office or jurisdiction
of a tetrarch; a tetrarchate.

TETRASCHISTIC
Tet`ra*schis"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Characterized by division into four parts.

TETRASEPALOUS
Tet`ra*sep"al*ous, a. Etym: [Tetra- + sepal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having four sepals.

TETRASPASTON
Tet`ra*spas"ton, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Tetra-) + (Mach.)

Defn: A machine in which four pulleys act together. Brande & C.

TETRASPERMOUS
Tet`ra*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Tetra- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having four seeds. Tetraspermous plant, a plant which produces
four seeds in each flower.

TETRASPORE
Tet"ra*spore, n. Etym: [Tetra- + spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: A nonsexual spore, one of a group of four regularly occurring
in red seaweeds.
 -- Tet`ra*spor"ic, a.

TETRASTICH
Te*tras"tich, n. Etym: [L. tetrastichon, Gr. Tetra-) +

Defn: A stanza, epigram, or poem, consisting of four verses or lines.
Pope.

TETRASTYLE
Tet"ra*style, a. Etym: [L. tetrastylon, Gr. Tetra-) + (Arch.)

Defn: Having four columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, or
colonnade.
 -- n.

Defn: A tetrastyle building.

TETRASYLLABIC; TETRASYLLABICAL
Tet`ra*syl*lab"ic, Tet`ra*syl*lab"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
tétrasyllabique.]

Defn: Consisting of, or having, four syllables; quadrisyllabic.

TETRASYLLABLE
Tet"ra*syl`la*ble, n. Etym: [Tetra- + syllable: cf. Gr.

Defn: A word consisting of four syllables; a quadrisyllable.

TETRATHECAL
Tet`ra*the"cal, a. Etym: [Tetra- + thecal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having four loculaments, or thecæ.

TETRATHIONATE
Tet`ra*thi"on*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tetrathionic acid.

TETRATHIONIC
Tet`ra*thi*on"ic, a. Etym: [Tetra- + thionic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a thionic derivative, H

TETRATOMIC
Tet`ra*tom"ic, a. Etym: [Tetra- + atomic.] (Chem.)
(a) Consisting of four atoms; having four atoms in the molecule, as
phosphorus and arsenic.
(b) Having a valence of four; quadrivalent; tetravalent; sometimes,
in a specific sense, having four hydroxyl groups, whether acid or
basic.

TETRAVALENCE
Te*trav"a*lence, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The quality or state of being tetravalent; quadrivalence.

TETRAVALENT
Te*trav"a*lent, a. Etym: [Tetra- + L. valens, -entis, p.pr.] (Chem.)

Defn: Having a valence of four; tetratomic; quadrivalent.

TETRAXILE
Te*trax"ile, a. Etym: [Tetra- + axile.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having four branches diverging at right angles; -- said of
certain spicules of sponges.

TETRAZINE; TETRAZIN
Tet*raz"ine, n. Also -in. [Tetrazo- + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical compound, C2H2N4 which  may be regarded as
benzene with four CH groups replaced by nitrogen atoms; also, any of
various derivatives of the same. There are three isomeric varieties.

TETRAZO-
Tet*raz"o-, a. Etym: [Tetra- + azo-.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively), designating any one
of a series of double derivatives of the azo and diazo compounds
containing four atoms of nitrogen.

TETRAZOLE
Tet*raz"ole, n.  [Tetrazo- + -ole.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline acid substance, CH2N4, which may be regarded as
pyrrol in which nitrogen atoms replace three CH groups; also, any of
various derivatives of the same.

TETRAZONE
Tet"ra*zone, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a certain series of basic compounds containing a
chain of four nitrogen atoms; for example, ethyl tetrazone,
(C2H5)2N.N2.N(C2H5)2, a colorless liquid having an odor of leeks.

TETRIC; TETRICAL
Tet"ric, Tet"ri*cal, a. Etym: [L. tetricus, taetricus, from teter,
taeter, offensive, foul.]

Defn: Forward; perverse; harsh; sour; rugged. [Obs.] --
Tet"ric*al*ness, n.

TETRICITY
Te*tric"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. tetricitas, taetricitas.]

Defn: Crabbedness; perverseness. [Obs.]

TETRICOUS
Tet"ric*ous, a.

Defn: Tetric. [Obs.]

TETRINIC
Te*trin"ic, a. Etym: [See Tetra-.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex ketonic acid,
C5H6O3, obtained as a white crystalline substance; -- so called
because once supposed to contain a peculiar radical of four carbon
atoms. Called also acetyl-acrylic acid.

TETRODON
Tet"ro*don, n. Etym: [Tetra- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of plectognath fishes belonging to
Tetrodon and allied genera. Each jaw is furnished with two large,
thick, beaklike, bony teeth. [Written also tetradon.]

Note: The skin is usually spinous, and the belly is capable of being
greatly distended by air or water. It includes the swellfish, puffer
(a), and similar species.

TETRODONT
Tet"ro*dont, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tetrodons.
 -- n.

Defn: A tetrodon. [Written also tetradont, and tetraodont.]

TETROL
Tet"rol, n. Etym: [Tetra- + benzol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H4, analogous to benzene; -- so
called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule. Tetrol phenol,
furfuran. [Obs.]

TETROLIC
Tet*rol"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C3H3.CO2H, of the
acetylene series, homologous with propiolic acid, obtained as a white
crystalline substance.

TETROSE
Tet"rose, n.  [Tetra- + -ose.] (Chem.)

Defn: A monosaccharide derived from a certain alcohol.

TETROXIDE
Tet*rox"ide, n. Etym: [Tetra- + oxide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oxide having four atoms of oxygen in the molecule; a
quadroxide; as, osmium tetroxide, OsO.

TETRYL
Tet"ryl, n. Etym: [Tetra- + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: Butyl; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.

TETRYLENE
Tet"ryl*ene, n. Etym: [Tetra- + ethylene.] (Chem.)

Defn: Butylene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the
molecule.

TETTER
Tet"ter, n. Etym: [OE. teter, AS. teter, tetr; akin to G. zitter,
zittermal, OHG. zittaroch, Skr. dadru, dadruka, a sort of skin
disease. *63, 240.] (Med.)

Defn: A vesicular disease of the skin; herpes. See Herpes. Honeycomb
tetter (Med.), favus.
 -- Moist tetter (Med.), eczema.
 -- Scaly tetter (Med.), psoriasis. Tetter berry (Bot.), the white
bryony.

TETTER
Tet"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tettered; p. pr. & vb. n. Tettering.]

Defn: To affect with tetter. Shak.

TETTEROUS
Tet"ter*ous, a.

Defn: Having the character of, or pertaining to, tetter.

TETTER-TOTTER
Tet"ter-tot`ter, n. Etym: [See Teeter.]

Defn: A certain game of children; seesaw; -- called also titter-
totter, and titter-cum-totter.

TETTERWORT
Tet"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant used as a remedy for tetter, -- in England the
calendine, in America the bloodroot.

TETTIGONIAN
Tet`ti*go"ni*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of Hemiptera belonging to
Tettigonia and allied genera; a leaf hopper.

TETTISH
Tet"tish, a. Etym: [Cf. Testy.]

Defn: Captious; testy. [Written also teatish.] [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

TETTIX
Tet"tix, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cicada. [Obs. or R.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small grasshoppers.

TETTY
Tet"ty, a.

Defn: Testy; irritable. [Obs.] Burton.

TEUFIT
Teu"fit, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lapwing; -- called also teuchit. [Prov. Eng.]

TEUK
Teuk, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The redshank. [Prov. Eng.]

TEUTON
Teu"ton, n.; pl. E. Teutons, L. Teutones. Etym: [L. Teutones,
Teutoni, the name of a Germanic people, probably akin to E. Dutch.
Cf. Dutch.]

1. One of an ancient German tribe; later, a name applied to any
member of the Germanic race in Europe; now used to designate a
German, Dutchman, Scandinavian, etc., in distinction from a Celt or
one of a Latin race.

2. A member of the Teutonic branch of the Indo-European, or Aryan,
family.

TEUTONIC
Teu*ton"ic, a. Etym: [L. Teutonicus, from Teutoni, or Teutones. See
Teuton.]

1. Of or pertaining to the Teutons, esp. the ancient Teutons;
Germanic.

2. Of or pertaining to any of the Teutonic languages, or the peoples
who speak these languages. Teutonic languages, a group of languages
forming a division of the Indo-European, or Aryan, family, and
embracing the High German, Low German, Gothic, and Scandinavian
dialects and languages.
 -- Teutonic order, a military religious order of knights,
established toward the close of the twelfth century, in imitation of
the Templars and Hospitalers, and composed chiefly of Teutons, or
Germans. The order rapidly increased in numbers and strength till it
became master of all Prussia, Livonia, and Pomerania. In its decay it
was abolished by Napoleon; but it has been revived as an honorary
order.

TEUTONIC
Teu*ton"ic, n.

Defn: The language of the ancient Germans; the Teutonic languages,
collectively.

TEUTONICISM
Teu*ton"i*cism, n.

Defn: A mode of speech peculiar to the Teutons; a Teutonic idiom,
phrase, or expression; a Teutonic mode or custom; a Germanism.

TEW
Tew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tewed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tewing.] Etym: [OE.
tewen, tawen. *64. See Taw, v.]

1. To prepare by beating or working, as leather or hemp; to taw.

2. Hence, to beat; to scourge; also, to pull about; to maul; to
tease; to vex. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

TEW
Tew, v. i.

Defn: To work hard; to strive; to fuse. [Local]

TEW
Tew, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Taw to tow, Tow, v. t.]

Defn: To tow along, as a vessel. [Obs.] Drayton.

TEW
Tew, n.

Defn: A rope or chain for towing a boat; also, a cord; a string.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

TEWAN
Te"wan, n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of American Indians including many of the Pueblos of
New Mexico and adjacent regions.

TEWED
Tewed, a.

Defn: Fatigued; worn with labor or hardship. [Obs. or Local] Mir. for
Mag.

TEWEL
Tew"el, n. Etym: [OE. tuel, OF. tuiel, tuel, F. tuyau; of Teutonic
origin; cf. Dan. tud, D. tuit, Prov. G. zaute. Cf. Tuyère.]

1. A pipe, funnel, or chimney, as for smoke. Chaucer.

2. The tuyère of a furnace.

TEWHIT
Te"whit, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lapwing; -- called also teewheep. [Prov. Eng.]

TEWTAW
Tew"taw, v. t. Etym: [See Tew, v. t.]

Defn: To beat; to break, as flax or hemp. [Obs.] Mortimer.

TEXAS
Tex"as, n.

Defn: A structure on the hurricane deck of a steamer, containing the
pilot house, officers' cabins, etc. [Western U.S.] Knight.

TEXAS LEAGUER
Tex"as Leagu"er. [From the Texas (baseball) League.] (Baseball)

Defn: A short fly that falls too far out to be handled by an
infielder and too close in to be caught by an outfielder. [Cant]

TEXT
Text, n. Etym: [F. texte, L. textus, texture, structure, context, fr.
texere, textum, to weave, construct, compose; cf. Gr. taksh to cut,
carve, make. Cf. Context, Mantle, n., Pretext, Tissue, Toil a snare.]

1. A discourse or composition on which a note or commentary is
written; the original words of an author, in distinction from a
paraphrase, annotation, or commentary. Chaucer.

2. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: The four Gospels, by way of distinction or eminence. [R.]

3. A verse or passage of Scripture, especially one chosen as the
subject of a sermon, or in proof of a doctrine.
How oft, when Paul has served us with a text, Has Epictetus, Plato,
Tully, preached! Cowper.

4. Hence, anything chosen as the subject of an argument, literary
composition, or the like; topic; theme.

5. A style of writing in large characters; text-hand also, a kind of
type used in printing; as, German text. Text blindness. (Physiol.)
See Word blindness, under Word.
 -- Text letter, a large or capital letter. [Obs.] -- Text pen, a
kind of metallic pen used in engrossing, or in writing text-hand.

TEXT
Text, v. t.

Defn: To write in large characters, as in text hand. [Obs.] Beau. &
Fl.

TEXT-BOOK
Text"-book`, n.

1. A book with wide spaces between the lines, to give room for notes.

2. A volume, as of some classical author, on which a teacher lectures
or comments; hence, any manual of instruction; a schoolbook.

TEXT-HAND
Text"-hand`, n.

Defn: A large hand in writing; -- so called because it was the
practice to write the text of a book in a large hand and the notes in
a smaller hand.

TEXT HAND
Text hand.

Defn: A large hand in writing; -- so called because it was the
practice to write the text of a book in a large hand and the notes in
a smaller hand.

TEXTILE
Tex"tile, a. Etym: [L. textilis, fr. texere to weave: cf. F. textile.
See Text.]

Defn: Pertaining to weaving or to woven fabrics; as, textile arts;
woven, capable of being woven; formed by weaving; as, textile
fabrics. Textile cone (Zoöl.), a beautiful cone shell (Conus
textilis) in which the colors are arranged so that they resemble
certain kinds of cloth.

TEXTILE
Tex"tile, n.

Defn: That which is, or may be, woven; a fabric made by weaving.
Bacon.

TEXTMAN
Text"man, n.; pl. Textmen (.

Defn: One ready in quoting texts. [R.] Bp. Sanderston.

TEXTORIAL
Tex*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. textorius, fr. textor a weaver, fr.
texere, textum, to weave.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to weaving. T. Warton.

TEXTRINE
Tex"trine, a. Etym: [L. textrinus, for textorinus, fr. textor a
weaver.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to weaving, textorial; as, the textrine art.
Denham.

TEXTUAL
Tex"tu*al, a. Etym: [OE. textuel, F. textuel.]

1. Of, pertaining to, or contained in, the text; as, textual
criticism; a textual reading. Milton.

2. Serving for, or depending on, texts. Bp. Hall.

3. Familiar with texts or authorities so as to cite them accurately.
"I am not textuel." Chaucer.

TEXTUALIST
Tex"tu*al*ist, n.

Defn: A textman; a textuary. Lightfoot.

TEXTUALLY
Tex"tu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a textual manner; in the text or body of a work; in
accordance with the text.

TEXTUARIST
Tex"tu*a*rist, n.

Defn: A textuary. [R.]

TEXTUARY
Tex"tu*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. textuaire.]

1. Contained in the text; textual. Sir T. Browne.

2. Serving as a text; authoritative. Glanvill.

TEXTUARY
Tex"tu*a*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. textuaire.]

1. One who is well versed in the Scriptures; a textman. Bp. Bull.

2. One who adheres strictly or rigidly to the text.

TEXTUEL
Tex"tu*el, a.

Defn: Textual. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TEXTUIST
Tex"tu*ist, n.

Defn: A textualist; a textman. [Obs.]
The crabbed textualists of his time. Milton.

TEXTURAL
Tex"tur*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to texture.

TEXTURE
Tex"ture, n. Etym: [L. textura, fr. texere, textum, to weave: cf. F.
texture. See Text.]

1. The act or art of weaving. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

2. That which woven; a woven fabric; a web. Milton.
Others, apart far in the grassy dale, Or roughening waste, their
humble texture weave. Thomson.

3. The disposition or connection of threads, filaments, or other
slender bodies, interwoven; as, the texture of cloth or of a spider's
web.

4. The disposition of the several parts of any body in connection
with each other, or the manner in which the constituent parts are
united; structure; as, the texture of earthy substances or minerals;
the texture of a plant or a bone; the texture of paper; a loose or
compact texture.

5. (Biol.)

Defn: A tissue. See Tissue.

TEXTURE
Tex"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Textured; p. pr. & vb. n. Texturing.]

Defn: To form a texture of or with; to interweave. [R.]

TEXTURY
Tex"tur*y, n.

Defn: The art or process of weaving; texture. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

TEYNE
Teyne, n. Etym: [See Tain.]

Defn: A thin plate of metal. [Obs.] "A teyne of silver." Chaucer.

TH
Th.

Defn: In Old English, the article the, when the following word began
with a vowel, was often written with elision as if a part of the
word. Thus in Chaucer, the forms thabsence, tharray, thegle, thend,
thingot, etc., are found for the absence, the array, the eagle, the
end, etc.

THACK; THACKER
Thack, Thack"er.

Defn: See Thatch, Thatcher. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

THAK
Thak, v. t.

Defn: To thwack. [Obs.] Chaucer.

THALAMENCEPHALON
Thal`a*men*ceph"a*lon, n. Etym: [NL. See Thalamus, and Encephalon.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The segment of the brain next in front of the midbrain,
including the thalami, pineal gland, and pituitary body; the
diencephalon; the interbrain.

THALAMIC
Tha*lam"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a thalamus or to thalami.

THALAMIFLORAL; THALAMIFLOROUS
Thal`a*mi*flo"ral, Thal`a*mi*flo"rous, a. Etym: [See Thalamus, and
Floral.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing the stamens directly on the receptacle; -- said of a
subclass of polypetalous dicotyledonous plants in the system of De
Candolle.

THALAMOCOELE
Thal"a*mo*coele`, n. Etym: [Thalamic + Cg. (Anat.)

Defn: The cavity or ventricle of the thalamencephalon; the third
ventricle.

THALAMOPHORA
Thal`a*moph"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Foraminifera.

THALAMUS
Thal"a*mus, n.; pl. Thalami. Etym: [L. thalamus chamber, Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A mass of nervous matter on either side of the third ventricle
of the brain; -- called also optic thalamus.

2. (Bot.)
(a) Same as Thallus.
(b) The receptacle of a flower; a torus.

THALASSIAN
Tha*las"si*an, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any sea tortoise.

THALASSIC
Tha*las"sic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sea; -- sometimes applied to rocks
formed from sediments deposited upon the sea bottom.

THALASSINIAN
Thal`as*sin"i*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Thalaassinidæ, a family of burrowing macrurous
Crustacea, having a long and soft abdomen.

THALASSOGRAPHY
Thal`as*sog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The study or science of the life of marine organisms. Agassiz.

THALER
Tha"ler, n. Etym: [G. See Dollar.]

Defn: A German silver coin worth about three shillings sterling, or
about 73 cents.

THALIA
Tha*li"a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class. Myth.)
(a) That one of the nine Muses who presided over comedy.
(b) One of the three Graces.
(c) One of the Nereids.

THALIACEA
Tha`li*a"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Thalia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Tunicata comprising the free-swimming species,
such as Salpa and Doliolum.

THALIAN
Tha*li"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Thalia; hence, of or pertaining to comedy;
comic.

THALLATE
Thal"late, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of a hypothetical thallic acid.

THALLENE
Thal"lene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon obtained from coal-tar residues, and remarkable
for its intense yellowish green fluorescence.

THALLIC
Thal"lic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing,
thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the
element has a higher valence as contrasted with the thallous
compounds; as, thallic oxide.

THALLINE
Thal"line, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of a thallus.

THALLINE
Thal"line, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: An artificial alkaloid of the quinoline series, obtained as a
white crystalline substance, C10H13NO, whose salts are valuable as
antipyretics; -- so called from the green color produced in its
solution by certain oxidizing agents.

THALLIOUS
Thal"li*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See Thallous.

THALLIUM
Thal"li*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. green line in its spectrum.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element of the aluminium group found in some
minerals, as certain pyrites, and also in the lead-chamber deposit in
the manufacture of sulphuric acid. It is isolated as a heavy, soft,
bluish white metal, easily oxidized in moist air, but preserved by
keeping under water. Symbol Tl. Atomic weight 203.7.

THALLOGEN
Thal"lo*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of a large class or division of the vegetable kingdom,
which includes those flowerless plants, such as fungi, algæ, and
lichens, that consist of a thallus only, composed of cellular tissue,
or of a congeries of cells, or even of separate cells, and never show
a distinction into root, stem, and leaf.

THALLOID
Thal"loid, a. Etym: [Thallus + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling, or consisting of, thallus.

THALLOPHYTA
Thal*loph"y*ta, n. pl. [NL. See Thallophyte.] (Bot.)

Defn: A phylum of plants of very diverse habit and structure,
including the algæ, fungi, and lichens. The simpler forms, as many
blue-green algæ, yeasts, etc., are unicellular and reproduce
vegetatively or  by means of asexual spores; in the higher forms the
plant body is a thallus, which may be filamentous or may consist of
plates of cells; it is commonly undifferentiated into stem, leaves,
and roots, and shows no distinct tissue systems; the fronds of many
algæ, however, are modified to serve many of the functions of the
above-named organs. Both asexual and sexual reproduction, often of a
complex type, occur in these forms. The Thallophyta exist almost
exclusively as gametophytes, the sporophyte being absent or
rudimentary. By those who do not separate the Myxophyta from the
Tallophyta as a distinct phylum the latter is treated as the
lowermost group in the vegetable kingdom.

THALLOPHYTE
Thal"lo*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Thallogen.

THALLOUS
Thal"lous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing,
thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the
element has a lower valence as contrasted with the thallic compounds.
[Written also thallious.]

THALLUS
Thal"lus, n.; pl. Thalli. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A solid mass of cellular tissue, consisting of one or more
layers, usually in the form of a flat stratum or expansion, but
sometimes erect or pendulous, and elongated and branching, and
forming the substance of the thallogens.

THALWEG
Thal"weg`, n. [G., fr. thal valley + weg way. See Dale; Way.]
(Physiography)
 (a) A line following the lowest part of a valley, whether under
water or not.
 (b) The line of continuous maximum descent from any point on a land
surface, or that cutting all contours and angles.

THAMMUZ; TAMMUZ
Tham"muz, Tam"muz, n. Etym: [Heb. thammuz.]

1. A deity among the ancient Syrians, in honor of whom the Hebrew
idolatresses held an annual lamentation. This deity has been
conjectured to be the same with the Phoenician Adon, or Adonis.
Milton.

2. The fourth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, -- supposed to
correspond nearly with our month of July.

THAMNOPHILE
Tham"no*phile, n. Etym: [Gr. qa`mnos a bush + fi`los loving.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bush shrike.

THAMYN
Tha"myn, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Asiatic deer (Rucervus Eldi) resembling the swamp deer; --
called also Eld's deer.

THAN
Than, conj. Etym: [OE. than, thon, then, thanne, thonne, thenne,
than, then, AS. thanne, thonne, th\'91nne; akin to D. dan, OHG.
danne, G. dann then, denn than, for, Goth. Þan then, and to E. the,
there, that. See That, and cf. Then.]

Defn: A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives
and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better,
other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object
compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object
compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then considered
by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is
expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would
rather suffer than that you should want.
Behold, a greater than Solomon is here. Matt. xii. 42.
Which when Beelzebub perceived, than whom, Satan except, none higher
sat. Milton.
It's wiser being good than bad; It's safer being meek than fierce;
It's fitter being sane than mad. R. Browning.

THAN
Than, adv.

Defn: Then. See Then. [Obs.] Gower.
Thanne longen folk to gon on pilgrimages. Chaucer.

THANA
Tha"na (tä"nä), n. [Written also tana, tanna.] [Hind. thana.]

Defn: A police station. [India] Kipling.

THANAGE
Than"age, n.

Defn: The district in which a thane anciently had jurisdiction;
thanedom.

THANATOID
Than"a*toid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Deathlike; resembling death. Dunglison.

THANATOLOGY
Than`a*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: A description, or the doctrine, of death. Dunglison.

THANATOPSIS
Than`a*top"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A view of death; a meditation on the subject of death. Bryant.

THANE
Thane, n. Etym: [OE. thein, Þein, AS. Þegen, Þegn; akin to OHG. degan
a follower, warrior, boy, MHG. degen a hero, G. degen hero, soldier,
Icel. Þegn a thane, a freeman; probably akin to Gr. Þius servant, AS.
Þeón, G. dienen to serve.]

Defn: A dignitary under the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in England. Of
these there were two orders, the king's thanes, who attended the
kings in their courts and held lands immediately of them, and the
ordinary thanes, who were lords of manors and who had particular
jurisdiction within their limits. After the Conquest, this title was
disused, and baron took its place.

Note: Among the ancient Scots, thane was a title of honor, which
seems gradually to have declined in its significance. Jamieson.

THANEDOM
Thane"dom, n.

Defn: The property or jurisdiction of a thane; thanage. Sir W. Scott.

THANEHOOD
Thane"hood, n.

Defn: The character or dignity of a thane; also, thanes,
collectively. J. R. Green.

THANESHIP
Thane"ship, n.

Defn: The state or dignity of a thane; thanehood; also, the
seignioralty of a thane.

THANK
Thank, n.; pl. Thanks. Etym: [AS. Þanc, Þonc, thanks, favor, thought;
akin to OS. thank favor, pleasure, thanks, D. & G. dank thanks, Icel.
Þ\'94kk, Dan. tak, Sw. tack, Goth. Þagks thanks; -- originally, a
thought, a thinking. See Think.]

Defn: A expression of gratitude; an acknowledgment expressive of a
sense of favor or kindness received; obligation, claim, or desert, or
gratitude; -- now generally used in the plural. "This ceremonial
thanks." Massinger.
If ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye for
sinners also do even the same. Luke vi. 33.
What great thank, then, if any man, reputed wise and constant, will
neither do, nor permit others under his charge to do, that which he
approves not, especially in matter of sin Milton.
Thanks, thanks to thee, most worthy friend, For the lesson thou hast
taught. Longfellow.
His thanks, Her thanks, etc., of his or her own accord; with his or
her good will; voluntary. [Obs.]
Full sooth is said that love ne lordship, Will not, his thanks, have
no fellowship. Chaucer.
-- In thank, with thanks or thankfulness. [Obs.] -- Thank offering,
an offering made as an expression of thanks.