

TWITCH
Twitch, n.

1. The act of twitching; a pull with a jerk; a short, sudden, quick
pull; as, a twitch by the sleeve.

2. A short, spastic contraction of the fibers or muscles; a simple
muscular contraction; as, convulsive twitches; a twitch in the side.

3. (Far.)

Defn: A stick with a hole in one end through which passes a loop,
which can be drawn tightly over the upper lip or an ear of a horse.
By twisting the stick the compression is made sufficiently painful to
keep the animal quiet during a slight surgical operation. J. H.
Walsh.

TWITCHER
Twitch"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, twitches.

TWITCH GRASS
Twitch" grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Quitch grass.

TWITE
Twite, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The European tree sparrow.
(b) The mountain linnet (Linota flavirostris). [Prov. Eng.]

TWITLARK
Twit"lark`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The meadow pipit. [Prov. Eng.]

TWITTER
Twit"ter, n. Etym: [From Twit.]

Defn: One who twits, or reproaches; an upbraider.

TWITTER
Twit"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Twittered; p. pr. & vb. n. Twittering.]
Etym: [OE. twiteren; of imitative origin; cf. G. zwitschern, OHG.
zwizzir, D. kwetteren, Sw. qwitra, Dan. quiddre. Cf. Titter.]

1. To make a succession of small, tremulous, intermitted noises.
The swallow twittering from the straw-built shed. Gray.

2. To make the sound of a half-suppressed laugh; to titter; to
giggle. J. Fletcher.

3. Etym: [Perhaps influenced by twitch.]

Defn: To have a slight trembling of the nerves; to be excited or
agitated.

TWITTER
Twit"ter, v. t.

Defn: To utter with a twitter. Cowper.

TWITTER
Twit"ter, n.

1. The act of twittering; a small, tremulous, intermitted noise, as
that made by a swallow.

2. A half-suppressed laugh; a fit of laughter partially restrained; a
titter; a giggle. Hudibras.

3. A slight trembling or agitation of the nerves.

TWITTERING
Twit"ter*ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, twitters.

2. A slight nervous excitement or agitation, such as is caused by
desire, expectation, or suspense.
A widow, who had a twittering towards a second husband, took a
gossiping companion to manage the job. L'Estrange.

TWITTINGLY
Twit"ting*ly, adv.

Defn: In a twitting manner; with upbraiding.

TWITTLE-TWATTLE
Twit"tle-twat`tle, n. Etym: [See Twattle.]

Defn: Tattle; gabble. L'Estrange.

'TWIXT
'Twixt.

Defn: An abbreviation of Betwixt, used in poetry, or in colloquial
language.

'TWIXT-BRAIN
'Twixt"-brain`, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The thalamen

TWO
Two, a. Etym: [OE. two, twa, properly fem. & neut., twei, twein,
tweien, properly masc. (whence E. twain), AS. twa, fem. & neut., tw,
masc., t, neut.; akin to OFries. tw, masc., twa, fem. & neut., OS.
tw, masc., twa, fem., tw, neut., D. twee, OHG. zw, zw, zwei, G. zwei,
Icel. tveir, tvær, tvau, Sw. två, Dan. to, Goth. twai, tw, twa; Lith.
du, Russ. dva, Ir. & Gael. da, W. dau, dwy, L. duo, Gr. dva. Balance,
Barouche, Between, Bi-, Combine, Deuce two in cards, Double, Doubt,
Dozen, Dual, Duet, Dyad, Twain, Twelve, Twenty, Twice, Twilight,
Twig, Twine, n., Twist.]

Defn: One and one; twice one. "Two great lights." Gen. i. 16. "Two
black clouds." Milton.

Note: Two is often joined with other words, forming compounds
signifying divided into, consisting of, or having, two parts,
divisions, organs, or the like; as two-bladed, two-celled, two-eared,
two-flowered, twohand, two-headed, two-horse, two-leafed or two-
leaved, two-legged, two-lobed, two-masted, two-named, two-part, two-
petaled, two-pronged, two-seeded, two-sided, two-story, two-stringed,
two-foothed, two-valved, two-winged, and the like. One or two, a
phrase often used indefinitely for a small number.

TWO
Two, n.

1. The sum of one; the number next greater than one, and next less
than three; two units or objects.

2. A symbol representing two units, as 2, II., or ii. In two,
asunder; into parts; in halves; in twain; as, cut in two.

TWO-CAPSULED
Two"-cap`suled, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having two distinct capsules; bicapsular.

TWO-CLEFT
Two"-cleft`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Divided about half way from the border to the base into two
segments; bifid.

TWO-CYCLE
Two"-cy`cle, n. (Thermodynamics)

Defn: A two-stroke cycle for an internal-combustion engine. --Two"-
cy`cle, a.

TWO-DECKER
Two"-deck`er, n.

Defn: A vessel of war carrying guns on two decks.

TWO-EDGED
Two"-edged`, a.

Defn: Having two edges, or edges on both sides; as, a two-edged
sword.

TWOFOLD
Two"fold`, a. Etym: [Cf. Twifold.]

Defn: Double; duplicate; multiplied by two; as, a twofold nature; a
twofold sense; a twofold argument.

TWOFOLD
Two"fold`, adv.

Defn: In a double degree; doubly.

TWO-FOOT
Two"-foot`, a.

Defn: Measuring two feet; two feet long, thick, or wide; as, a two-
foot rule.

TWO-FORKED
Two"-forked`, a.

Defn: Divided into two parts, somewhat after the manner of a fork;
dichotomous.

TWO-HAND
Two"-hand`, a.

Defn: Employing two hangs; as, the two-hand alphabet. See
Dactylology.

TWO-HANDED
Two"-hand`ed, a.

1. Having two hands; -- often used as an epithet equivalent to large,
stout, strong, or powerful. "Two-handed sway." Milton.

2. Used with both hands; as, a two-nanded sword.
That two-handed engine [the sword]. Milton.

3. Using either hand equally well; ambidextrous.

TWO-LIPPED
Two"-lipped`, a.

1. Having two lips.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Divided in such a manner as to resemble the two lips when the
mouth is more or less open; bilabiate.

TWO-NAME
Two"-name`, a. (Banking)

Defn: Having or bearing two names; as, two-name paper, that is,
negotiable paper on which at least two persons are severally liable
as separate makers, or, usually, one as maker and one as indorser.
[Colloq.]

TWO-PARTED
Two"-part`ed, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Divided from the border to the base into two distinct parts;
bipartite.

TWO-PARTED
Two"-part`ed, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Divided from the border to the base into two distinct parts;
bipartite.

TWOPENCE
Two"pence, n.

Defn: A small coin, and money of account, in England, equivalent to
two pennies, -- minted to a fixed annual amount, for almsgiving by
the sovereign on Maundy Thursday.

TWOPENNY
Two"pen*ny, a.

Defn: Of the value of twopence.

TWO-PHASE; TWO-PHASER
Two"-phase`, a., Two"-phas`er, n. (Elec.)

Defn: Same as Diphase, Diphaser.

TWO-PLY
Two"-ply`, a.

1. Consisting of two thicknesses, as cloth; double.

2. Woven double, as cloth or carpeting, by incorporating two sets of
warp thread and two of weft.

TWO-PORT
Two"-port`, a.

Defn: Having two ports; specif.: Designating a type of two-cycle
internal-combustion engine in which the admission of the mixture to
the crank case is through a suction valve.

TWO-RANKED
Two"-ranked`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Alternately disposed on exactly opposite sides of the stem so
as to from two ranks; distichous.

TWO-SIDED
Two"-sid`ed, a.

1. Having two sides only; hence, double-faced; hypocritical.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Symmetrical.

TWO-SPEED
Two"-speed`, a.

Defn: Adapted for producing or for receiving either of two speeds; --
said of a power-transmitting device.

TWO-STEP
Two"-step`, n.

Defn: A kind of round dance in march or polka time; also, a piece of
music for this dance. [U. S.]

TWO-THROW
Two"-throw`, a. (Mach.)
 (a) Capable of being thrown or cranked in two directions, usually
opposite to one another; as, a two-throw crank; a two-throw switch.
 (b) Having two crank set near together and opposite to one another;
as, a two-throw crank shaft.

TWO-TONGUED
Two"-tongued`, a.

Defn: Double-tongued; deceitful. Sandys.

TWO-TO-ONE
Two"-to-one", a. (Mach.)

Defn: Designating, or pert. to, a gear for reducing or increasing a
velocity ratio two to one.

TWO-WAY
Two"-way`, a. (Pipe Fitting)

Defn: Serving to connect at will one pipe or channel with either of
two others; as, a two-way cock.

TWYBLADE
Twy"blade`, n.

Defn: See Twayblade.

TY-ALL
Ty"-all`, n.

Defn: Something serving to tie or secure. [Obs.] Latimer.

TYBURN TICKET
Ty"burn tick`et. Etym: [So called in allusion to Tyburn, formerly a
place of execution in England.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A certificate given to one who prosecutes a felon to
conviction, exempting him from certain parish and ward offices.

TYCHISM
Ty"chism, n. [Gr. ty`chh fortune, chance + -ism.]

Defn: Any theory which conceives chance as an objective reality;
esp., a theory of evolution which considers that variation may be
purely fortuitous.

TYCHONIC
Ty*chon"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tycho Brahe, or his system of astronomy.

TYCOON
Ty*coon", n. Etym: [Chinese tai-kun great prince.]

Defn: The title by which the shogun, or former commander in chief of
the Japanese army, was known to foreigners.

TYDY
Ty"dy, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Tidy.

TYE
Tye, n.

1. A knot; a tie. [R.] See Tie.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A chain or rope, one end of which passes through the mast, and
is made fast to the center of a yard; the other end is attached to a
tackle, by means of which the yard is hoisted or lowered.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A trough for washing ores. Knight.

TYE
Tye, v. t.

Defn: See Tie, the proper orthography.

TYER
Ty"er, n.

Defn: One who ties, or unites. [R.]

TYFOON
Ty*foon", n.

Defn: See Typhoon.

TYGER
Ty"ger, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tiger. [Obs.]

TYING
Ty"ing,

Defn: p. pr. of Tie.

TYING
Ty"ing, n. (Mining)

Defn: The act or process of washing ores in a buddle.

TYKE
Tyke, n.

Defn: See 2d Tike.

TYLARUS
Ty"la*rus, n.; pl. Tylari. Etym: [NL., fr.Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the pads on the under surface of the toes of birds.

TYLER
Ty"ler, n.

Defn: See 2d Tiler.

TYLOPODA
Ty*lop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tribe of ungulates comprising the camels.

TYLOSIS
Ty*lo"sis, n.; pl. Tyloses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An intrusion of one vegetable cell into the cavity of another,
sometimes forming there an irregular mass of cells. Goodale.

TYMBAL
Tym"bal, n. Etym: [F. timbale, Sp. timbal; cf. atabal; probably of
Arabic origin. Cf. Atabal, Timbrel.]

Defn: A kind of kettledrum. [Written also trimbal.]
A tymbal's sound were better than my voice. Prior.

TYMP
Tymp, n. Etym: [Cf. Tympan.] (Blast Furnace)

Defn: A hollow water-cooled iron casting in the upper part of the
archway in which the dam stands.

TYMPAN
Tym"pan, n. Etym: [F., fr. tympanum a kettledrum, a panel of a door.
See Tympanum, and cf. Tymp.]

1. A drum. [Obs.]

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A panel; a tympanum.

3. (Print.)

Defn: A frame covered with parchment or cloth, on which the blank
sheets are put, in order to be laid on the form to be impressed.
Tympan sheet (Print.), a sheet of paper of the same size as that to
be printed, pasted on the tympan, and serving as a guide in laying
the sheets evenly for printing. W. Savage.

TYMPANAL
Tym"pa*nal, n.

Defn: Tympanic.

TYMPANIC
Tym*pan"ic, a. Etym: [See Tympanum.]

1. Like a tympanum or drum; acting like a drumhead; as, a tympanic
membrane.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tympanum. Tympanic bone (Anat.), a bone
of the skull which incloses a part of the tympanum and supports the
tympanic membrane.
 -- Tympanic membrane. (Anat.) See the Note under Ear.

TYMPANIC
Tym*pan"ic, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The tympanic bone.

TYMPANIST
Tym"pa*nist, n. Etym: [L. tympaniste, Gr.

Defn: One who beats a drum. [R.]

TYMPANITES
Tym`pa*ni"tes, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A flatulent distention of the belly; tympany.

TYMPANITIC
Tym`pa*nit"ic, a. Etym: [L. tympaniticus one afflicted with
tympanites.] (Med.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or affected with, tympanites.

TYMPANITIS
Tym`pa*ni"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Tympanum, and -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the lining membrane of the middle ear.

TYMPANIZE
Tym"pa*nize, v. i. Etym: [L. tympanizare to beat a drum, Gr.

Defn: To drum. [R.] Coles.

TYMPANIZE
Tym"pa*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tympanized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tympanizing.]

Defn: To stretch, as a skin over the head of a drum; to make into a
drum or drumhead, or cause to act or sound like a drum. [Obs.]
"Tympanized, as other saints of God were." Oley.

TYMPANO
Tym"pa*no, n.; pl. Tympani. Etym: [It. timpano. See Tympanum.] (Mus.)

Defn: A kettledrum; -- chiefly used in the plural to denote the
kettledrums of an orchestra. See Kettledrum. [Written also timpano.]

TYMPANO-
Tym"pa*no-.

Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with,
or relation to, the tympanum; as in tympanohyal, tympano-Eustachian.

TYMPANOHYAL
Tym`pa*no*hy"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tympanum and the hyoidean arch.
 -- n.

Defn: The proximal segment in the hyoidean arch, becoming a part of
the styloid process of the temporal bone in adult man.

TYMPANUM
Tym"pa*num, n.; pl. E. Tympanums, L. Tympana. Etym: [L., a
kettledrum, a drum or wheel in machines, the triangular area in a
pediment, the panel of a door, Gr. Type, and cf. Timbrel.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) The ear drum, or middle ear. Sometimes applied incorrectly to the
tympanic membrane. See Ear.
(b) A chamber in the anterior part of the syrinx of birds.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the naked, inflatable air sacs on the neck of the
prairie chicken and other species of grouse.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The recessed face of a pediment within the frame made by the
upper and lower cornices, being usually a triangular space or table.
(b) The space within an arch, and above a lintel or a subordinate
arch, spanning the opening below the arch.

4. (Mech.)

Defn: A drum-shaped wheel with spirally curved partitions by which
water is raised to the axis when the wheel revolves with the lower
part of the circumference submerged, -- used for raising water, as
for irrigation.

TYMPANY
Tym"pa*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. Tympanites.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A flatulent distention of the belly; tympanites. Fuller.

2. Hence, inflation; conceit; bombast; turgidness. "Thine 's a
tympany of sense." Dryden.
A plethoric a tautologic tympany of sentence. De Quincey.

TYND
Tynd, v. t. Etym: [See Tine to shut in.]

Defn: To shut; to close. [Obs.] Wyclif.

TYNE
Tyne, v. t. Etym: [Icel. t.]

Defn: To lose. [Obs. or Scot.] "His bliss gan he tyne." Piers
Plowman. Sir W. Scott.

TYNE
Tyne, v. i.

Defn: To become lost; to perish. [Obs.] Spenser.

TYNE
Tyne, n. Etym: [See Tine a prong.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A prong or point of an antler.

TYNE
Tyne, n. Etym: [See Teen, n.]

Defn: Anxiety; tine. [Obs.] "With labor and long tyne." Spenser.

TYNY
Ty"ny, a. Etym: [See Tiny.]

Defn: Small; tiny. [Obs.]

TYPAL
Typ"al, a.

Defn: Relating to a type or types; belonging to types; serving as a
type; typical. Owen.

-TYPE
-type. Etym: [See Type, n.]

Defn: A combining form signifying impressed form; stamp; print; type;
typical form; representative; as in stereotype phototype, ferrotype,
monotype.

TYPE
Type, n. Etym: [F. type; cf. It. tipo, from L. typus a figure, image,
a form, type, character, Gr. tup to hurt.]

1. The mark or impression of something; stamp; impressed sign;
emblem.
The faith they have in tennis, and tall stockings, Short blistered
breeches, and those types of travel. Shak.

2. Form or character impressed; style; semblance.
Thy father bears the type of king of Naples. Shak.

3. A figure or representation of something to come; a token; a sign;
a symbol; -- correlative to antitype.
A type is no longer a type when the thing typified comes to be
actually exhibited. South.

4. That which possesses or exemplifies characteristic qualities; the
representative. Specifically: (a) (Biol.)

Defn: A general form or structure common to a number of individuals;
hence, the ideal representation of a species, genus, or other group,
combining the essential characteristics; an animal or plant
possessing or exemplifying the essential characteristics of a
species, genus, or other group. Also, a group or division of animals
having a certain typical or characteristic structure of body
maintained within the group.
Since the time of Cuvier and Baer . . . the whole animal kingdom has
been universally held to be divisible into a small number of main
divisions or types. Haeckel.
(b) (Fine Arts)

Defn: The original object, or class of objects, scene, face, or
conception, which becomes the subject of a copy; esp., the design on
the face of a medal or a coin.
(c) (Chem.) A simple compound, used as a mode or pattern to which
other compounds are conveniently regarded as being related, and from
which they may be actually or theoretically derived.

Note: The fundamental types used to express the simplest and most
essential chemical relations are hydrochloric acid, HCl; water, H2O;
ammonia, NH3; and methane, CH4.

5. (Typog.)
(a) A raised letter, figure, accent, or other character, cast in
metal or cut in wood, used in printing.
(b) Such letters or characters, in general, or the whole quantity of
them used in printing, spoken of collectively; any number or mass of
such letters or characters, however disposed.

Note: Type are mostly made by casting type metal in a mold, though
some of the larger sizes are made from maple, mahogany, or boxwood.
In the cut, a is the body; b, the face, or part from which the
impression is taken; c, the shoulder, or top of the body; d, the nick
(sometimes two or more are made), designed to assist the compositor
in distinguishing the bottom of the face from the top; e, the groove
made in the process of finishing, -- each type as cast having
attached to the bottom of the body a jet, or small piece of metal
(formed by the surplus metal poured into the mold), which, when
broken off, leaves a roughness that requires to be removed. The fine
lines at the top and bottom of a letter are technically called
ceriphs, and when part of the face projects over the body, as in the
letter f, the projection is called a kern. The type which compose an
ordinary book font consist of Roman CAPITALS, small capitals, and
lower-case letters, and Italic CAPITALS and lower-case letters, with
accompanying figures, points, and reference marks, -- in all about
two hundred characters. Including the various modern styles of fancy
type, some three or four hundred varieties of face are made. Besides
the ordinary Roman and Italic, some of the most important of the
varieties are --
Old English. Black Letter. Old Style. French Elzevir. Boldface.
Antique. Clarendon. Gothic. Typewriter. Script. The smallest body in
common use is diamond; then follow in order of size, pearl, agate,
nonpareil, minion, brevier, bourgeois (or two-line diamond), long
primer (or two-line pearl), small pica (or two-line agate), pica (or
two-line nonpareil), English (or two-line minion), Columbian (or two-
line brevier), great primer (two-line bourgeois), paragon (or two-
line long primer), double small pica (or two-line small pica), double
pica (or two-line pica), double English (or two-line English), double
great primer (or two-line great primer), double paragon (or two-line
paragon), canon (or two-line double pica). Above this, the sizes are
called five-line pica, six-line pica, seven-line pica, and so on,
being made mostly of wood. The following alphabets show the different
sizes up to great primer.
Brilliant . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Diamond . .
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Pearl . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
Agate . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Nonpareil . . .
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Minion . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
Brevier . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Bourgeois . .
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Long primer . . .
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Small pica . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
Pica . . . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz English . . .
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Columbian . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
Great primer . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz The foregoing account
is conformed to the designations made use of by American type
founders, but is substantially correct for England. Agate, however,
is called ruby, in England, where, also, a size intermediate between
nonpareil and minion is employed, called emerald. Point system of
type bodies (Type Founding), a system adopted by the type founders of
the United States by which the various sizes of type have been so
modified and changed that each size bears an exact proportional
relation to every other size. The system is a modification of a
French system, and is based on the pica body. This pica body is
divided into twelfths, which are termed "points," and every type body
consist of a given number of these points. Many of the type founders
indicate the new sizes of type by the number of points, and the old
names are gradually being done away with. By the point system type
founders cast type of a uniform size and height, whereas formerly
fonts of pica or other type made by different founders would often
vary slightly so that they could not be used together. There are no
type in actual use corresponding to the smaller theoretical sizes of
the point system. In some cases, as in that of ruby, the term used
designates a different size from that heretofore so called.
1 American 9 Bourgeois | | 1| 2 Saxon 10 Long Primer | | 2| 3
Brilliant 11 Small Pica | | 3| | 4 Excelsior | 4| | 5 Pearl 16
Columbian | | 5| 6 Nonpareil 18 Great Primer | | 7 Minion | 8 Brevier
20 Paragon | | Diagram of the "points" by which sizes of Type are
graduated in the "Point System". Type founder, one who casts or
manufacture type.
 -- Type foundry, Type foundery, a place for the manufacture of type.
 -- Type metal, an alloy used in making type, stereotype plates,
etc., and in backing up electrotype plates. It consists essentially
of lead and antimony, often with a little tin, nickel, or copper.
 -- Type wheel, a wheel having raised letters or characters on its
periphery, and used in typewriters, printing telegraphs, etc.
 -- Unity of type (Biol.), that fundamental agreement in structure
which is seen in organic beings of the same class, and is quite
independent of their habits of life. Darwin.

TYPE
Type, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Typed; p. pr. & vb. n. Typing.]

1. To represent by a type, model, or symbol beforehand; to prefigure.
[R.] White (Johnson).

2. To furnish an expression or copy of; to represent; to typify. [R.]
Let us type them now in our own lives. Tennyson.

TYPESETTER
Type"set`ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sets type; a compositor; a machine for
setting type.

TYPESETTING
Type"set`ting, n.

Defn: The act or art of setting type.

TYPEWRITE
Type"write`, v. t. & i.

Defn: To write with a typewriter. [Recent]

TYPEWRITER
Type"writ`er, n.

1. An instrument for writing by means of type, a typewheel, or the
like, in which the operator makes use of a sort of keyboard, in order
to obtain printed impressions of the characters upon paper.

2. One who uses such an instrument.

TYPEWRITING
Type"writ`ing, n.

Defn: The act or art of using a typewriter; also, a print made with a
typewriter.

TYPHLITIS
Typh*li"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the cæcum.

TYPHLOSOLE
Typh"lo*sole, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fold of the wall which projects into the cavity of the
intestine in bivalve mollusks, certain annelids, starfishes, and some
other animals.

TYPHOEAN
Ty*pho"ë*an, a. Etym: [L. Typhoius, from Typhoeus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Typhoeus (ti*fo"us), the fabled giant of
Greek mythology, having a hundred heads; resembling Typhoeus.

Note: Sometimes incorrectly written and pronounced Ty-phoe''an (, or
Ty-phe'' an.

TYPHOID
Ty"phoid, a. Etym: [Typhus + -oid: cf. F. typhoïde, Gr. Typhus.]
(Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to typhus; resembling typhus; of a low grade
like typhus; as, typhoid symptoms. Typhoid fever, a disease formerly
confounded with typhus, but essentially different from the latter. It
is characterized by fever, lasting usually three or more weeks,
diarrhæa with evacuations resembling pea soup in appearance, and
prostration and muscular debility, gradually increasing and often
becoming profound at the acme of the disease. Its local lesions are a
scanty eruption of spots, resembling flea bites, on the belly,
enlargement of the spleen, and ulceration of the intestines over the
areas occupied by Peyer's glands. The virus, or contagion, of this
fever is supposed to be a microscopic vegetable organism, or
bacterium. Called also enteric fever. See Peyer's glands.
 -- Typhoid state, a condition common to many diseases, characterized
by profound prostration and other symptoms resembling those of
typhus.

TYPHOMALARIAL
Ty`pho*ma*la"ri*al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to typhoid fever and malaria; as, typhomalarial
fever, a form of fever having symptoms both of malarial and typhoid
fever.

TYPHOMANIA
Ty`pho*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Typhus, and Mania.] (Med.)

Defn: A low delirium common in typhus fever.

TYPHON
Ty"phon, n. Etym: [Gr. Typhoon.] (Class. Mythol.)

1. According to Hesiod, the son of Typhoeus, and father of the winds,
but later identified with him.

Note: By modern writers, Typhon is identified with the Egyptian Set,
who represents physical evil. Encyc. Brit.

2. A violent whirlwind; a typhoon. [Obs.]
The circling typhon whirled from point to point. Thomson.

TYPHOON
Ty*phoon", n. Etym: [Earlier tuffoon, tuffon, Pg. tufao, Ar. tufan a
violent storm; probably fr. Gr. tyfw^n, tyfw^s, a violent whirlwind,
that rushes upward from the earth, whirling clouds of dust (cf.
Typhus); or perhaps from Chin. t'ai-fung a cyclonic wind.]

Defn: A violent whirlwind; specifically, a violent whirlwind
occurring in the Chinese seas.

TYPHOS
Ty"phos, n. Etym: [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: Typhus. [Obs.]

TYPHOTOXIN
Ty`pho*tox"in, n. Etym: [Typhoid + -toxic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A basic substance, C7H17NO2, formed from the growth of the
typhoid bacillus on meat pulp. It induces in small animals lethargic
conditions with liquid dejecta.

TYPHOUS
Ty"phous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. typheux.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to typhus; of the nature of typhus.

TYPHUS
Ty"phus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. dh smoke.] (Med.)

Defn: A contagious continued fever lasting from two to three weeks,
attended with great prostration and cerebral disorder, and marked by
a copious eruption of red spots upon the body. Also called jail
fever, famine fever, putrid fever, spottled fever, etc. See Jail
fever, under Jail.

TYPIC
Typ"ic, a.

Defn: Typical. "Typic shades." Boyle.

TYPICAL
Typ"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. typicus, Gr. typique. See Type.]

1. Of the nature of a type; representing something by a form, model,
or resemblance; emblematic; prefigurative.
The Levitical priesthood was only typical of the Christian.
Atterbury.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Combining or exhibiting the essential characteristics of a
group; as, a typical genus.
 -- Typ"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Typ"ic*al*ness, n.

TYPIFICATION
Typ`i*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of typifying, or representing by a figure.

TYPIFIER
Typ"i*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, typifies. Bp. Warburton.

TYPIFY
Typ"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Typified; p. pr. & vb. n. Typifying.]
Etym: [Type + -fy.]

Defn: To represent by an image, form, model, or resemblance.
Our Savior was typified, indeed, by the goat that was slain, and the
scapegoat in the wilderness. Sir T. Browne.

TYPIST
Typ"ist, n.

Defn: A person who operates a typewriting machine; a typewriter.

TYPO
Ty"po, n. Etym: [An abbreviation of typographer.]

Defn: A compositor. [Colloq.]

TYPOCOSMY
Typ"o*cos`my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A representation of the world. [R.]

TYPOGRAPH
Ty"po*graph, n.  [Type + -graph.]

Defn: A machine for setting type or for casting lines of type and
setting them.

TYPOGRAPHER
Ty*pog"ra*pher, n. Etym: [Cf. F. typographe. See Typography.]

Defn: A printer. T. Warton.

TYPOGRAPHIC; TYPOGRAPHICAL
Ty`po*graph"ic, Ty`po*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. typographique.]

1. Of or pertaining to the act or act of representing by types or
symbols; emblematic; figurative; typical. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. Of or pertaining to typography or printing; as, the typographic
art.
 -- Ty`po*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

TYPOGRAPHY
Ty*pog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Type + -graphy: cf. F. typographie.]

1. The act or art of expressing by means of types or symbols;
emblematical or hieroglyphic representation. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. The art of printing with types; the use of types to produce
impressions on paper, vellum, etc.

TYPOLITE
Typ"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. typolithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A stone or fossil which has on it impressions or figures of
plants and animals.

TYPOLITHOGRAPHY
Ty`po*li*thog"ra*phy, n. [Gr.  type + lithography.]

Defn: A branch of lithography in which impressions from printers'
types are transferred to stone for reproduction. --
Ty`po*lith`o*graph"ic (#), a.

TYPOLOGY
Ty*pol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Type + -logy.]

1. (Theol.)

Defn: A discourse or treatise on types.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: The doctrine of types.

TYPOTHETAE
Ty*poth"e*tæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. E. type + Gr.

Defn: Printers; -- used in the name of an association of the master
printers of the United States and Canada, called The United Typothetæ
of America.

TYRAN
Ty"ran, n. Etym: [See Tyrant.]

Defn: A tyrant. [Obs.]
Lordly love is such a tyran fell. Spenser.

TYRANNESS
Ty"ran*ness, n.

Defn: A female tyrant. [Obs.] "That proud tyranness." Spenser.
Akenside.

TYRANNIC; TYRANNICAL
Ty*ran"nic, Ty*ran"nic*al, a. Etym: [L. tyrannicus, Gr. tyrannique.
See Tyrant.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tyrant; suiting a tyrant; unjustly severe
in government; absolute; imperious; despotic; cruel; arbitrary; as, a
tyrannical prince; a tyrannical master; tyrannical government. "A
power tyrannical." Shak.
Our sects a more tyrannic power assume. Roscommon.
The oppressor ruled tyrannic where he durst. Pope.
-- Ty*ran"nic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Ty*ran"nic*al*ness, .

TYRANNICIDAL
Ty*ran"ni*ci`dal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to tyrannicide, or the murder of a tyrant.
Booth.

TYRANNICIDE
Ty*ran"ni*ci`de, n. Etym: [L. tyrannicidium the killing of a tyrant,
tyrannicida the killer of a tyrant; tyrannus a tyrant + caedere to
kill: cf. F. tyrannicide.]

1. The act of killing a tyrant. Hume.

2. One who kills a tyrant.

TYRANNISH
Tyr"an*nish, a.

Defn: Like a tyrant; tyrannical. [Obs.] "The proud tyrannish Roman."
Gower.

TYRANNIZE
Tyr"an*nize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tyrannized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tyrannizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. tyranniser, Gr.

Defn: To act the tyrant; to exercise arbitrary power; to rule with
unjust and oppressive severity; to exercise power others not
permitted by law or required by justice, or with a severity not
necessary to the ends of justice and government; as, a prince will
often tyrannize over his subjects; masters sometimes tyrannize over
their servants or apprentices.

TYRANNIZE
Tyr"an*nize, v. t.

Defn: To subject to arbitrary, oppressive, or tyrannical treatment;
to oppress.

TYRANNOUS
Tyr"an*nous, a.

Defn: Tyrannical; arbitrary; unjustly severe; despotic. Sir P.
Sidney.
 -- Tyr"an*nous*ly, adv.

TYRANNY
Tyr"an*ny, n. Etym: [OE. tirannye, OF. tirannie, F. tyrannie; cf. It.
tirannia; Gr. tyrannis. See Tyrant.]

1. The government or authority of a tyrant; a country governed by an
absolute ruler; hence, arbitrary or despotic exercise of power;
exercise of power over subjects and others with a rigor not
authorized by law or justice, or not requisite for the purposes of
government.
"Sir," would he [Seneca] say, "an emperor mote need Be virtuous and
hate tyranny." Chaucer.

2. Cruel government or discipline; as, the tyranny of a schoolmaster.

3. Severity; rigor; inclemency.
The tyranny of the open night's too rough For nature to endure. Shak.

TYRANT
Tyr"ant, n. Etym: [OE. tirant, tiraunt, tyraunt, OF. tiran, tirant
(probably from confusion with the p. pr. of verbs), F. tyran, L.
tyrannus, Gr.

1. An absolute ruler; a sovereign unrestrained by law or
constitution; a usurper of sovereignty.

Note: Free governments [in Greece] having superseded the old
hereditary sovereignties (basilei^ai), all who obtained absolute
power in a state were called ty\rannoi, tyrants, or rather despots; -
- for the term rather regards the irregular way in which the power
was gained, whether force or fraud, than the way in which it was
exercised, being applied to the mild Pisistratus, but not to the
despotic kings of Persia. However, the word soon came to imply
reproach, and was then used like our tyrant. Liddell & Scott.

2. Specifically, a monarch, or other ruler or master, who uses power
to oppress his subjects; a person who exercises unlawful authority,
or lawful authority in an unlawful manner; one who by taxation,
injustice, or cruel punishment, or the demand of unreasonable
services, imposes burdens and hardships on those under his control,
which law and humanity do not authorize, or which the purposes of
government do not require; a cruel master; an oppressor. "This false
tyrant, this Nero." Chaucer.
Love, to a yielding heart, is a king, but to a resisting, is a
tyrant. Sir P. Sidney.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of American clamatorial birds
belonging to the family Tyrannidæ; -- called also tyrant bird.

Note: These birds are noted for their irritability and pugnacity, and
for the courage with which they attack rapacious birds far exceeding
them in size and strength. They are mostly plain-colored birds, but
often have a bright-colored crown patch. A few species, as the
scissorstail, are handsomely colored. The kingbird and pewee are
familiar examples. Tyrant flycatcher (Zoöl.), any one of numerous
species of tyrants which have a flattened bill, toothed at the tip,
and resemble the true flycatchers in habits. The Acadian flycatcher
(Empidonax Acadicus) and the vermilion flycatcher (Pyrocephalus
rubineus) are examples.
 -- Tyrant shrike (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of American
tyrants of the genus Tyrannus having a strong toothed bill and
resembling the strikes in habits. The kingbird is an example.

TYRANT
Ty"rant, v. i.

Defn: To act like a tyrant; to play the tyrant; to tyrannical. [Obs.]
Fuller.

TYRE
Tyre, Etym: [Tamil tayir.]

Defn: Curdled milk. [India]

TYRE
Tyre, n. & v.

Defn: Attire. See 2d and 3d Tire. [Obs.]

TYRE
Tyre, v. i.

Defn: To prey. See 4th Tire. [Obs.]

TYRIAN
Tyr"i*an, a. Etym: [L. Tyrius, from Tyrus Tyre, Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to Tyre or its people.

2. Being of the color called Tyrian purple.
The bright-eyed perch with fins of Tyrian dye. Pope.
Tyrian purple, or Tyrian dye, a celebrated purple dye prepared in
ancient Tyre from several mollusks, especially Ianthina, Murex, and
Purpura. See the Note under Purple, n., 1, and Purple of mollusca,
under Purple, n.

TYRIAN
Tyr"i*an, n. Etym: [L. Tyrius.]

Defn: A native of Tyre.

TYRO
Ty"ro, n.; pl. Tyros. Etym: [L. tiro a newlylevied soldier, a
beginner.]

Defn: A beginner in learning; one who is in the rudiments of any
branch of study; a person imperfectly acquainted with a subject; a
novice. [Written also tiro.]
The management of tyros of eighteen Is difficult. Cowper.

TYROCINY
Ty"ro*cin*y, n. Etym: [L. tirocinium first service or trial, fr.
tiro. See Tyro.]

Defn: The state of being a tyro, or beginner; apprenticeship. [Obs.]
Blount.

TYROLITE
Tyr"o*lite, n. Etym: [From Tyrol, where it occurs.] (Min.)

Defn: A translucent mineral of a green color and pearly or vitreous
luster. It is a hydrous arseniate of copper.

TYRONISM
Ty"ro*nism, n.

Defn: The state of being a tyro, or beginner. [Written also
tironism.]

TYROSIN
Tyr"o*sin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline nitrogenous substance present in small
amount in the pancreas and spleen, and formed in large quantity from
the decomposition of proteid matter by various means, -- as by
pancreatic digestion, by putrefaction as of cheese, by the action of
boiling acids, etc. Chemically, it consists of oxyphenol and
amidopropionic acid, and by decomposition yields oxybenzoic acid, or
some other benzol derivative. [Written also tyrosine.]

TYROTOXICON
Tyr`o*tox"i*con, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Toxic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A ptomaine discovered by Vaughan in putrid cheese and other
dairy products, and producing symptoms similar to cholera infantum.
Chemically, it appears to be related to, or identical with,
diazobenzol.

TYROTOXINE
Tyr`o*tox"ine, n.

Defn: Same as Tyrotoxicon.

TYSONITE
Ty"son*ite, n. Etym: [After S. T. Tyson.] (Min.)

Defn: A fluoride of the cerium metals occurring in hexagonal crystals
of a pale yellow color. Cf. Fluocerite.

TYSTIE
Ty"stie, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. þeisti, Norw. teiste.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The black guillemot. [Prov. Eng.]

TYTHE
Tythe, n.

Defn: See Tithe.

TYTHING
Tyth"ing, n.

Defn: See Tithing.

TZAR
Tzar, n.

Defn: The emperor of Russia. See Czar.

TZARINA; TZARITZA
Tza*ri"na, Tza*rit"za, n.

Defn: The empress of Russia. See Czarina.

TZETZE
Tzet"ze, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Tsetse.

U

Defn: U, the twenty-first letter of the English alphabet, is a
cursive form of the letter V, with which it was formerly used
interchangeably, both letters being then used both as vowels and
consonants. U and V are now, however, differentiated, U being used
only as a vowel or semivowel, and V only as a consonant. The true
primary vowel sound of U, in Anglo-Saxon, was the sound which it
still retains in most of the languages of Europe, that of long oo, as
in tool, and short oo, as in wood, answering to the French ou in
tour. Etymologically U is most closely related to o, y (vowel), w,
and v; as in two, duet, dyad, twice; top, tuft; sop, sup; auspice,
aviary. See V, also O and Y. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 130-144.

UAKARI
Ua*ka"ri, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Ouakari.

UBEROUS
U"ber*ous, a. Etym: [L. uber.]

Defn: Fruitful; copious; abundant; plentiful. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

UBERTY
U"ber*ty, n. Etym: [L. ubertas.]

Defn: Fruitfulness; copiousness; abundance; plenty. [Obs.] Florio.

UBICATION; UBIETY
U`bi*ca"tion, U*bi"e*ty, n. Etym: [NL. ubicatio, ubietas, fr. L. ubi
where.]

Defn: The quality or state of being in a place; local relation;
position or location; whereness. [R.] Glanvill.

UBIQUARIAN
U`bi*qua"ri*an, a.

Defn: Ubiquitous. [R.]

UBIQUIST; UBIQUITARIAN
U"bi*quist, U*biq`ui*ta"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. ubique everywhere: cf. F.
ubiquiste, ubiquitaire. See Ubiquity.]   (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a school of Lutheran divines which held that the body of
Christ is present everywhere, and especially in the eucharist, in
virtue of his omnipresence.  Called also Ubiquitist, Ubiquitary.

UBIQUITARINESS
U*biq"ui*ta*ri*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being ubiquitary, or ubiquitous. [R.]
Fuller.

UBIQUITARY
U*biq"ui*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. ubique everywhere. See Ubiquitarian.]

Defn: Ubiquitous. Howell.

UBIQUITARY
U*biq"ui*ta*ry, n.; pl. Ubiquitaries (.

1. One who exists everywhere. B. Jonson.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A ubiquist. Bp. Hall.

UBIQUITIST
U*biq"ui*tist, n.

Defn: Same as Ubiquist.

UBIQUITOUS
U*biq"ui*tous, a. Etym: [See Ubiquity.]

Defn: Existing or being everywhere, or in all places, at the same
time; omnipresent.
 -- U*biq"ui*tous*ly, adv.
In this sense is he ubiquitous. R. D. Hitchcock.

UBIQUITY
U*biq"ui*ty, n. Etym: [L. ubique everywhere, fr. ubi where, perhaps
for cubi, quobi (cf. alicubi anywhere), and if so akin to E. who: cf.
F. ubiquité.]

1. Existence everywhere, or in places, at the same time;
omnipresence; as, the ubiquity of God is not disputed by those who
admit his existence.
The arms of Rome . . . were impeded by . . . the wide spaces to be
traversed and the ubiquity of the enemy. C. Merivale.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: The doctrine, as formulated by Luther, that Christ's glorified
body is omnipresent.

UCHEES
U"chees, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of North American Indians belonging to the Creek
confederation.

UCKEWALLIST
Uck`e*wal"list, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of rigid Anabaptists, which originated in 1637,
and whose tenets were essentially the same as those of the
Mennonists. In addition, however, they held that Judas and the
murderers of Christ were saved. So called from the founder of the
sect, Ucke Wallis, a native of Friesland. Eadie.

UDAL
U"dal (u"dal), n. Etym: [Icel. oedhal allodium, an hereditary estate;
akin to Sw. odal allodial, Dan. odel.]

Defn: In Shetland and Orkney, a freehold; property held by udal, or
allodial, right.

UDAL
U"dal, a.

Defn: Allodial; -- a term used in Finland, Shetland, and Orkney. See
Allodial. Burrill.

UDAL; UDALBORN; UDALER; UDALMAN
U"dal, n. & a. U"dal*born`, U"dal*er, U"dal*man, etc.

Defn: Vars. of Odal, etc. Obs. exc. in Shetland and the Orkney
Islands, where udal designates land held in fee simple without any
charter and free of any feudal character.

UDALER; UDALMAN
U"dal*er, U"dal*man, n.

Defn: In the Shetland and Orkney Islands, one who holds property by
udal, or allodial, right. Sir W. Scott.

UDDER
Ud"der, n. Etym: [OE. uddir, AS. uder; akin to D. uijer, G. euter,
OHG. utar, utiro, Icel. jugr, Sw. jufver, jur, Dan. yver, L. uber,
Gr. o"y^qar, Skr. udhar. *216. Cf. Exuberant.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The glandular organ in which milk is secreted and stored; --
popularly called the bag in cows and other quadrupeds. See Mamma.
A lioness, with udders all drawn dry. Shak.

2. One of the breasts of a woman. [R.]
Yon Juno of majestic size, With cowlike udders, and with oxlike eyes.
Pope.

UDDERED
Ud"dered, a.

Defn: Having an udder or udders.

UDDERLESS
Ud"der*less, a.

1. Destitute or deprived of an udder.

2. Hence, without mother's milk; motherless; as, udderless lambs.
[Poetic] Keats.

UDOMETER
U*dom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. udus wet, moist + -meter.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A rain gauge.

UGH
Ugh (oo), interj.

Defn: An exclamation expressive of disgust, horror, or recoil. Its
utterance is usually accompanied by a shudder.

UGLESOME
Ug"le*some, a. [Ugly.]

Defn: Ugly. [Obs.] "Such an uglesome countenance." Latimer.

UGLIFY
Ug"li*fy, v. t. Etym: [Ugly + -fy.]

Defn: To disfigure; to make ugly. [R.] Mad. D'Arblay.

UGLILY
Ug"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ugly manner; with deformity.

UGLINESS
Ug"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being ugly.

UGLY
Ug"ly, a. [Compar. Uglier; superl. Ugliest.] Etym: [Icel. uggligr
fearful, dreadful; uggr fear (akin to ugga to fear) + -ligr (akin to
E. -ly, like). Awe.]

1. Offensive to the sight; contrary to beauty; being of disagreeable
or loathsome aspect; unsightly; repulsive; deformed.
The ugly view of his deformed crimes. Spenser.
Like the toad, ugly and venomous. Shak.
O, I have passed a miserable night, So full of ugly sights, of
ghastly dreams. Shak.

2. Ill-natured; crossgrained; quarrelsome; as, an ugly temper; to
feel ugly. [Colloq. U. S.]

3. Unpleasant; disagreeable; likely to cause trouble or loss; as, an
ugly rumor; an ugly customer. [Colloq.]

UGLY
Ug"ly, n.

Defn: A shade for the face, projecting from the bonnet. [Colloq.
Eng.] C. Kingsley.

UGLY
Ug"ly, v. t.

Defn: To make ugly. [R.] Richardson.

UGRIAN
U"gri*an, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A Mongolian race, ancestors of the Finns. [Written also
Uigrian.]

UGSOME
Ug"some, a. [Ugly.]

Defn: Ugly; offensive; loathsome. [Obs.] -- Ug"some*ness, n. [Obs.]
"The horror and ugsomeness of death." Latimer.

UHLAN
Uh"lan, n. Etym: [G. uhlan, Pol. ulan, hulan, from Turk. oglan a
youth, lad; of Tartar origin.] [Written also ulan, and formerly
hulan.]

1. One of a certain description of militia among the Tartars.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: One of a kind of light cavalry of Tartaric origin, first
introduced into European armies in Poland. They are armed with
lances, pistols, and sabers, and are employed chiefly as skirmishers.

UINTATHERIUM
U*in`ta*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Uinta, the Indian name of the
region where the animals were discovered + Gr. qhri`on beast.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of large Eocene ungulates allied to Dinoceras.
This name is sometimes used for nearly all the known species of the
group. See Dinoceras.

UITLANDER
Uit"land`er, n. [D. Cf. Outlander.]

Defn: A foreigner; an outlander. [South Africa]

UKASE
U*kase", n. Etym: [F., fr. Russ. ukas'; pref. u- + kazate to show, to
say.]

Defn: In Russia, a published proclamation or imperial order, having
the force of law.

ULAN
U"lan, n.

Defn: See Uhlan.

ULARBURONG
U*lar"bu*rong, n. Etym: [From the native Malay name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large East Indian nocturnal tree snake (Dipsas dendrophila).
It is not venomous.

ULCER
Ul"cer, n. Etym: [F. ulcère, L. ulcus, gen. ulceris, akin to Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body,
discharging purulent matter, found on a surface, especially one of
the natural surfaces of the body, and originating generally in a
constitutional disorder; a sore discharging pus. It is distinguished
from an abscess, which has its beginning, at least, in the depth of
the tissues.

2. Fig.: Anything that festers and corrupts like an open sore; a vice
in character. Cold ulcer (Med.), an ulcer on a finger or toe, due to
deficient circulation and nutrition. In such cases the extremities
are cold.

ULCER
Ul"cer, v. t.

Defn: To ulcerate. [R.] Fuller.

ULCERABLE
Ul"cer*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of ulcerating.

ULCERATE
Ul"cer*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ulcerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ulcerating.] Etym: [L. ulceratus, p. p. of ulcerare, fr. ulcus
ulcer.]

Defn: To be formed into an ulcer; to become ulcerous.

ULCERATE
Ul"cer*ate, v. t.

Defn: To affect with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers. Harvey.

ULCERATED
Ul"cer*a`ted, a.

Defn: Affected with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers; as, an ulcerated
sore throat.

ULCERATION
Ul`cer*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. ulceratio: cf. F. ulcération.] (Med.)

Defn: The process of forming an ulcer, or of becoming ulcerous; the
state of being ulcerated; also, an ulcer.

ULCERATIVE
Ul"cer*a*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ulcers; as, an ulcerative process.

ULCERED
Ul"cered, a.

Defn: Ulcerous; ulcerated.

ULCEROUS
Ul"cer*ous, a. Etym: [L. ulcerous: cf. F. ulcéreux.]

1. Having the nature or character of an ulcer; discharging purulent
or other matter. R. Browning.

2. Affected with an ulcer or ulcers; ulcerated.
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place. Shak.
-- Ul"cer*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Ul"cer*ous*ness, n.

ULCUSCLE; ULCUSCULE
Ul"cus*cle, Ul*cus"cule, n. Etym: [L. ulcusculum, dim. of ulcus. See
Ulcer.]

Defn: A little ulcer. [R.]

ULE
U"le, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Mexican and Central American tree (Castilloa elastica and C.
Markhamiana) related to the breadfruit tree. Its milky juice contains
caoutchouc. Called also ule tree.

ULEMA
U*le"ma, n. Etym: [Ar. 'ulema the wise or learned men, pl. of 'alim
wise, learned, fr. alima to know.]

Defn: A college or corporation in Turkey composed of the hierarchy,
namely, the imams, or ministers of religion, the muftis, or doctors
of law, and the cadis, or administrators of justice.

ULEXITE
U"lex*ite, n. Etym: [After a German chemist.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in white rounded crystalline masses. It is
a hydrous borate of lime and soda.

ULIGINOSE; ULIGINOUS
U*lig"i*nose`, U*lig"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. uliginosus, fr. uligo, -
inis, moisture, fr. uvere to be moist.]

Defn: Muddy; oozy; slimy; also, growing in muddy places. [R.]
Woodward.

ULLAGE
Ul"lage (; 48), n. Etym: [OF. eullage, ovillage, the filling up of a
cask, fr. ouillier, oillier, euillier, to fill a wine cask; properly,
to add oil to prevent evaporation, as to a flask that is nearly full,
fr. OF. oile oil. See Oil.] (Com.)

Defn: The amount which a vessel, as a cask, of liquor lacks of being
full; wantage; deficiency.

ULLET
Ul"let, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. hullote, E. howlet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European owl (Syrnium aluco) of a tawny color; -- called also
uluia.

ULLMANNITE
Ull"mann*ite, n. Etym: [So named after J. C. Ullman, a German
chemist.] (Min.)

Defn: A brittle mineral of a steel-gray color and metallic luster,
containing antimony, arsenic, sulphur, and nickel.

ULLUCO
Ul*lu"co, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Melluc.

ULMACEOUS
Ul*ma"ceous, a. Etym: [L. ulmus an elm.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a suborder of urticaceous plants, of which
the elm is the type.

ULMATE
Ul"mate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of ulmic acid.

ULMIC
Ul"mic, a. Etym: [L. ulmus an elm: cf. F. ulmique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to ulmin; designating an acid obtained from ulmin.

ULMIN
Ul"min, n. Etym: [L. ulmus an elm: cf. F. ulmine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A brown amorphous substance found in decaying vegetation. Cf.
Humin. [Formerly written ulmine.]

ULMUS
Ul"mus, n. Etym: [L., an elm.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees including the elm.

ULNA
Ul"na, n. Etym: [L., the elbow. See Ell.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The postaxial bone of the forearm, or branchium, corresponding
to the fibula of the hind limb. See Radius.

2. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: An ell; also, a yard. Burrill.

ULNAGE
Ul"nage, n. Etym: [See Ulna, and cf. Alnage.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: Measurement by the ell; alnage.

ULNAR
Ul"nar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ulna, or the elbow; as, the ulnar
nerve.

ULNARE
Ul*na"re, n.; pl. Ulnaria. Etym: [NL. See Ulna.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus, which articulates
with the ulna and corresponds to the cuneiform in man.

ULODENDRON
U`lo*den"dron, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of fossil trees.

ULOID
U"loid, a. [Written also ouloid.] [Gr.  scar + -oid.] (Med.)

Defn: Resembling a scar; scarlike.

ULONATA
U`lo*na"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of insects nearly equivalent to the true Orthoptera.

ULOTRICHAN
U*lot"ri*chan, a. (Anthropol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Ulotrichi.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Ulotrichi.

ULOTRICHI
U*lot"ri*chi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anthropol.)

Defn: The division of mankind which embraces the races having woolly
or crispy hair. Cf. Leiotrichi.

ULOTRICHOUS
U*lot"ri*chous, a. (Anthropol.)

Defn: Having woolly or crispy hair; -- opposed to leiotrichous.

ULSTER
Ul"ster, n.

Defn: A long, loose overcoat, worn by men and women, originally made
of frieze from Ulster, Ireland.

ULTERIOR
Ul*te"ri*or, a. Etym: [L., comp. of ultra, ultro, beyond, on the
other side, properly cases of an old adjective, formed with a
comparative suffix, which is akin to OL. uls beyond, L. olim
formerly, hereafter, orig., at that time, ille that, OL. olle, ollus.
Cf. Outrage.]

1. Situated beyond, or on the farther side; thither; -- correlative
with hither.

2. Further; remoter; more distant; succeeding; as, ulterior demands
or propositions; ulterior views; what ulterior measures will be
adopted is uncertain. Ulterior object or aim, an object or aim beyond
that which is avowed.

ULTERIOR
Ul*te"ri*or, n.

Defn: Ulterior side or part. [R.] Coleridge.

ULTERIORLY
Ul*te"ri*or*ly, adv.

Defn: More distantly or remotely.

ULTIMA
Ul"ti*ma, a. Etym: [L., fem. ultimus last.]

Defn: Most remote; furthest; final; last. Ultima ratio Etym: [L.],
the last reason or argument; the last resort.
 -- Ultima Thule. [L.] See Thule.

ULTIMA
Ul"ti*ma, n. Etym: [L., fem. of ultimus last.] (Gram. & Pros.)

Defn: The last syllable of a word.

ULTIMATE
Ul"ti*mate, a. Etym: [LL. ultimatus last, extreme, fr. L. ultimare to
come to an end, fr. ultimus the farthest, last, superl. from the same
source as ulterior. See Ulterior, and cf. Ultimatum.]

1. Farthest; most remote in space or time; extreme; last; final.
My harbor, and my ultimate repose. Milton.
Many actions apt to procure fame are not conductive to this our
ultimate happiness. Addison.

2. Last in a train of progression or consequences; tended toward by
all that precedes; arrived at, as the last result; final.
Those ultimate truths and those universal laws of thought which we
can not rationally contradict. Coleridge.

3. Incapable of further analysis; incapable of further division or
separation; constituent; elemental; as, an ultimate constituent of
matter. Ultimate analysis (Chem.), organic analysis. See under
Organic.
 -- Ultimate belief. See under Belief.
 -- Ultimate ratio (Math.), the limiting value of a ratio, or that
toward which a series tends, and which it does not pass.

Syn.
 -- Final; conclusive. See Final.

ULTIMATE
Ul"ti*mate, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Ultimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ultimating.]

1. To come or bring to an end; to eventuate; to end. [R.]

2. To come or bring into use or practice. [R.]

ULTIMATELY
Ul"ti*mate*ly, adv.

Defn: As a final consequence; at last; in the end; as, afflictions
often tend to correct immoral habits, and ultimately prove blessings.

ULTIMATION
Ul`ti*ma"tion, n.

Defn: State of being ultimate; that which is ultimate, or final;
ultimatum. [R.] Swift.

ULTIMATUM
Ul`ti*ma"tum, n.; pl. E. Ultimatums, L. Ultimata. Etym: [NL. See
Ultimate.]

Defn: A final proposition, concession, or condition; especially, the
final propositions, conditions, or terms, offered by either of the
parties in a diplomatic negotiation; the most favorable terms a
negotiator can offer, the rejection of which usually puts an end to
the hesitation.

ULTIME
Ul"time, a.

Defn: Ultimate; final. [Obs.] Bacon.

ULTIMITY
Ul*tim"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. ultimatus extremity, fr. L. ultimus the
last.]

Defn: The last stage or consequence; finality. [Obs.] Bacon.

ULTIMO
Ul"ti*mo. Etym: [L. ultimo (mense) in the last month.]

Defn: In the month immediately preceding the present; as, on the 1st
ultimo; -- usually abbreviated to ult. Cf. Proximo.

ULTION
Ul"tion, n. Etym: [L. ultio.]

Defn: The act of taking vengeance; revenge. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ULTRA-
Ul"tra-, a.

Defn: A prefix from the Latin ultra beyond (see Ulterior), having in
composition the signification beyond, on the other side, chiefly when
joined with words expressing relations of place; as, ultramarine,
ultramontane, ultramundane, ultratropical, etc. In other relations it
has the sense of excessively, exceedingly, beyond what is common,
natural, right, or proper; as, ultraconservative; ultrademocratic,
ultradespotic, ultraliberal, ultraradical, etc.

ULTRA
Ul"tra, a. Etym: [See Ultra-.]

Defn: Going beyond others, or beyond due limit; extreme; fanatical;
uncompromising; as, an ultra reformer; ultra measures.

ULTRA
Ul"tra, n.

Defn: One who advocates extreme measures; an ultraist; an extremist;
a radical. Brougham.

ULTRAGASEOUS
Ul`tra*gas"e*ous, a. [Pref. ultra + gaseous.] (Physics)

Defn: Having the properties exhibited by gases under very low
pressures (one millionth of an atmosphere or less). Matter under this
condition, which has been termed the fourth state of matter, is
sometimes called radiant matter.

ULTRAGE
Ul"trage, n.

Defn: Outrage. [Obs.]

ULTRAISM
Ul"tra*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ultraïsme. See Ultra-.]

Defn: The principles of those who advocate extreme measures, as
radical reform, and the like. Dr. H. More.

ULTRAIST
Ul"tra*ist, n.

Defn: One who pushes a principle or measure to extremes; an
extremist; a radical; an ultra.

ULTRAMARINE
Ul`tra*ma*rine", a. Etym: [Pref. ultra- + marine.]

Defn: Situated or being beyond the sea. Burke.

ULTRAMARINE
Ul`tra*ma*rine", n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. ultramarino. So called because the
lapis lazuli was originally brought from beyond the sea, -- from
Asia.] (Chem.)

Defn: A blue pigment formerly obtained by powdering lapis lazuli, but
now produced in large quantities by fusing together silica, alumina,
soda, and sulphur, thus forming a glass, colored blue by the sodium
polysulphides made in the fusion. Also used adjectively. Green
ultramarine, a green pigment obtained as a first product in the
manufacture of ultramarine, into which it is changed by subsequent
treatment.
 -- Ultramarine ash or ashes (Paint.), a pigment which is the
residuum of lapis lazuli after the ultramarine has been extracted. It
was used by the old masters as a middle or neutral tint for flesh,
skies, and draperies, being of a purer and tenderer gray that
produced by the mixture of more positive colors. Fairholt.

ULTRAMONTANE
Ul`tra*mon"tane, Etym: [LL. ultramontanus; L. ultra beyond + montanus
belonging to a mountain, from mons, montis, mountain: cf. F.
ultramontain, It. ultramontano. See Ultra-, and Mountain.]

Defn: Being beyond the mountains; specifically, being beyond the
Alps, in respect to the one who speaks.

Note: This term was first applied, somewhat contemptuously, by the
Italians, to the nations north of the Alps, especially the Germans
and French, their painters, jurists, etc. At a later period, the
French and Germans applied it to the Italians. It is now more
particularly used in respect to religious matters; and ultramontane
doctrines, when spoken of north of the Alps, denote the extreme views
of the pope's rights and supremacy maintained by Bellarmin and other
Italian writers.

ULTRAMONTANE
Ul`tra*mon"tane, n.

1. One who resides beyond the mountains, especially beyond the Alps;
a foreigner.

2. One who maintains extreme views favoring the pope's supremacy. See
Ultramontanism.

ULTRAMONTANISM
Ul`tra*mon"ta*nism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ultramontanisme.]

Defn: The principles of those within the Roman Catholic Church who
maintain extreme views favoring the pope's supremacy; -- so used by
those living north of the Alps in reference to the Italians; --
rarely used in an opposite sense, as referring to the views of those
living north of the Alps and opposed to the papal claims. Cf.
Gallicanism.

ULTRAMONTANIST
Ul`tra*mon"ta*nist, n.

Defn: One who upholds ultramontanism.

ULTRAMUNDANE
Ul`tra*mun"dane, a. Etym: [L. ultramundanus. See Ultra-, and
Mundane.]

Defn: Being beyond the world, or beyond the limits of our system.
Boyle.

ULTRARED
Ul`tra*red", a. Etym: [Pref. ultra- + red.] (Physics)

Defn: Situated beyond or below the red rays; as, the ultrated rays of
the spectrum, which are less refrangible than the red.

ULTRATROPICAL
Ul`tra*trop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. ultra- + tropical.]

Defn: Situated beyond, or outside of, the tropics; extratropical;
also, having an excessively tropical temperature; warmer than the
tropics.

ULTRAVIOLET
Ul`tra*vi"o*let, a. Etym: [Pref. ultra- + violet.] (Physics)

Defn: Lying outside the visible spectrum at its violet end; -- said
of rays more refrangible than the extreme violet rays of the
spectrum.

ULTRA VIRES
Ul`tra vi"res, Etym: [Law Latin, from L. prep. ultra beyond + vires,
pl. of. vis strength.]

Defn: Beyond power; transcending authority; -- a phrase used
frequently in relation to acts or enactments by corporations in
excess of their chartered or statutory rights.

ULTRAZODIACAL
Ul`tra*zo*di"a*cal, a. Etym: [Pref. ultra- + zodiacal.] (Astron.)

Defn: Outside the zodiac; being in that part of the heavens that is
more than eight degrees from the ecliptic; as, ultrazodiacal planets,
that is, those planets which in part of their orbits go beyond the
zodiac.

ULTRONEOUS
Ul*tro"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. ultroneus, from ultro to the further
side, on his part, of one's own accord. See Ultra-.]

Defn: Spontaneous; voluntary. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
 -- Ul*tro"ne*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Ul*tro"ne*ous*ness, n. [Obs.]

ULULA
Ul"u*la, n. Etym: [L., a screech owl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of owls including the great gray owl (Ulula cinerea) of
Arctic America, and other similar species. See Illust. of Owl.

ULULANT
Ul"u*lant, a.

Defn: Howling; wailing.

ULULATE
Ul"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ululated; p. pr. & vb. n. Ululating.]
Etym: [L. ululatus, p. p. of ululare to howl, yell, shriek.]

Defn: To howl, as a dog or a wolf; to wail; as, ululating jackals.
Sir T. Herbert.

ULULATION
Ul`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ululatio.]

Defn: A howling, as of a dog or wolf; a wailing.
He may fright others with his ululation. Wither.

ULVA
Ul"va, n. Etym: [L., sedge.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of thin papery bright green seaweeds including the
kinds called sea lettuce.

UMBE
Um"be, prep. Etym: [AS. ymbe; akin to OHG. umbi, G. um. Cf. Amb-.]

Defn: About. [Obs.] Layamon.

UMBECAST
Um"be*cast`, v. i. Etym: [Umbe + cast.]

Defn: To cast about; to consider; to ponder. [Obs.] Sir T. Malory.

UMBEL
Um"bel, n. Etym: [L. umbella a little shadow, umbrella, dim. of umbra
shade. See Umbrella.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of flower cluster in which the flower stalks radiate
from a common point, as in the carrot and milkweed. It is simple or
compound; in the latter case, each peduncle bears another little
umbel, called umbellet, or umbellule.

UMBELLAR
Um"bel*lar, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an umbel; having the form of an umbel.

UMBELLATE; UMBELLATED
Um"bel*late, Um"bel*la`ted, a. Etym: [NL. umbellatus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing umbels; pertaining to an umbel; umbel-like; as,
umbellate plants or flowers.

UMBELLET
Um"bel*let, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small or partial umbel; an umbellule.

UMBELLIC
Um*bel"lic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, certain umbelliferous plants;
as, umbellic acid. Umbellic acid. (Chem.) (a) Anisic acid. [Obs.] (b)
A yellow powder obtained from umbelliferone.

UMBELLIFER
Um*bel"li*fer, n. Etym: [NL. See Umbelliferous.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant producing an umbel or umbels.

UMBELLIFERONE
Um`bel*lif"er*one, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A tasteless white crystalline substance, C9H6O3, found in the
bark of a certain plant (Daphne Mezereum), and also obtained by the
distillation of certain gums from the Umbelliferæ, as galbanum,
asafetida, etc. It is analogous to coumarin. Called also hydroxy-
coumarin.

UMBELLIFEROUS
Um`bel*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Umbel + -ferous: cf. F. ombillifère.]
(Bot.)
(a) Producing umbels.
(b) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Umbelliferæ) of plants, of
which the parsley, carrot, parsnip, and fennel are well-known
examples.

UMBELLULARIA
Um*bel`lu*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. Umbellule.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of deep-sea alcyonaria consisting of a cluster of large
flowerlike polyps situated at the summit of a long, slender stem
which stands upright in the mud, supported by a bulbous base.

UMBELLULE
Um"bel*lule, n. Etym: [NL. umbellula, dim. of umbella: cf. F.
ombellule.] (Bot.)

Defn: An umbellet.

UMBER
Um"ber, n. Etym: [F. ombre ocherous ore of iron, terre d'ombre, It.
terra d'ombra, literally, earth of shadow or shade, L. umbra shadow,
shade. Cf. Umber, 3 & 4, Umbrage.]

1. (Paint.)

Defn: A brown or reddish pigment used in both oil and water colors,
obtained from certain natural clays variously colored by the oxides
of iron and manganese. It is commonly heated or burned before being
used, and is then called burnt umber; when not heated, it is called
raw umber. See Burnt umber, below.

2. An umbrere. [Obs.]

3. Etym: [F. ombre, umbre, L. umbra.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Grayling, 1.

4. Etym: [Cf. NL. scopus umbretta, F. ombrette; probably fr. L. umbra
shade, in allusion to its dark brown color. See Umber a pigment.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An African wading bird (Scopus umbretta) allied to the storks
and herons. It is dull dusky brown, and has a large occipital crest.
Called also umbrette, umbre, and umber bird. Burnt umber (Paint.), a
pigment made by burning raw umber, which is changed by this process
from an olive brown to a bright reddish brown.
 -- Cologne, or German, umber, a brown pigment obtained from lignite.
See Cologne earth.

UMBER
Um"ber, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to umber; resembling umber; olive-brown; dark
brown; dark; dusky.
Their harps are of the umber shade That hides the blush of waking
day. J. R. Drake.

UMBER
Um"ber, v. t.

Defn: To color with umber; to shade or darken; as, to umber over
one's face. B. Jonson.

UMBERY
Um"ber*y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to umber; like umber; as, umbery gold.

UMBILIC
Um*bil"ic, n. Etym: [From L. umbilicus: cf. F. ombilic. See Navel.]

1. The navel; the center. [Obs.] "The umbilic of the world." Sir T.
Herbert.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: An umbilicus. See Umbilicus, 5 (b).

UMBILIC
Um*bil"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: See Umbilical, 1.

UMBILICAL
Um*bil"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ombilical. See Umbilic, n.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an umbilicus, or umbilical cord; umbilic.

2. Pertaining to the center; central. [R.] De Foe. Umbilical cord.
(a) (Anat.) The cord which connects the fetus with the placenta, and
contains the arteries and the vein through which blood circulates
between the fetus and the placenta; the navel-string. (b) (Bot.) The
little stem by which the seeds are attached to the placenta; --
called also funicular cord.
 -- Umbilical hernia (Med.), hernia of the bowels at the umbilicus.
 -- Umbilical point (Geom.), an umbilicus. See Umbilicus, 5.
 -- Umbilical region (Anat.), the middle region of the abdomen,
bounded above by the epigastric region, below by the hypogastric
region, and on the sides by the lumbar regions.
 -- Umbilical vesicle (Anat.), a saccular appendage of the developing
embryo, containing the nutritive and unsegmented part of the ovum;
the yolk sac. See Illust. in Appendix.

UMBILICATE; UMBILICATED
Um*bil"i*cate, Um*bil"i*ca`ted, a. Etym: [L. umbilicatus. See
Umbilic.]
(a) Depressed in the middle, like a navel, as a flower, fruit, or
leaf; navel-shaped; having an umbilicus; as, an umbilicated smallpox
vesicle.
(b) (Bot.) Supported by a stalk at the central point.

UMBILICATION
Um*bil"i*ca"tion, n.

Defn: A slight, navel-like depression, or dimpling, of the center of
a rounded body; as, the umbilication of a smallpox vesicle; also, the
condition of being umbilicated.

UMBILICUS
Um`bi*li"cus, n. Etym: [L. See Umbilic.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The depression, or mark, in the median line of the abdomen,
which indicates the point where the umbilical cord separated from the
fetus; the navel.

2. (Gr. & Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An ornamented or painted ball or boss fastened at each end of
the stick on which manuscripts were rolled. Dr. W. Smith.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The hilum.

4. (Zoöl.)
(a) A depression or opening in the center of the base of many spiral
shells.
(b) Either one of the two apertures in the calamus of a feather.

5. (Geom.)
(a) One of foci of an ellipse, or other curve. [Obs.]
(b) A point of a surface at which the curvatures of the normal
sections are all equal to each other. A sphere may be osculatory to
the surface in every direction at an umbilicus. Called also umbilic.

UMBLE PIE
Um"ble pie`.

Defn: A pie made of umbles. See To eat humble pie, under Humble.

UMBLES
Um"bles, n. pl. Etym: [See Nombles.]

Defn: The entrails and coarser parts of a deer; hence, sometimes,
entrails, in general. [Written also humbles.] Johnson.

UMBO
Um"bo, n.; pl. L. Umbones, E. Umbos. Etym: [L.]

1. The boss of a shield, at or near the middle, and usually
projecting, sometimes in a sharp spike.

2. A boss, or rounded elevation, or a corresponding depression, in a
palate, disk, or membrane; as, the umbo in the integument of the
larvæ of echinoderms or in the tympanic membrane of the ear.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the lateral prominence just above the hinge of a bivalve
shell.

UMBONATE; UMBONATED
Um"bo*nate, Um"bo*na`ted, a. Etym: [NL. umbonatus. See Umbo.]

Defn: Having a conical or rounded projection or protuberance, like a
boss.

UMBRA
Um"bra, n.; pl. Umbræ. Etym: [L., a shadow.]

1. (Astron.)
(a) The conical shadow projected from a planet or satellite, on the
side opposite to the sun, within which a spectator could see no
portion of the sun's disk; -- used in contradistinction from
penumbra. See Penumbra.
(b) The central dark portion, or nucleus, of a sun spot.
(c) The fainter part of a sun spot; -- now more commonly called
penumbra.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of several species of sciænoid food fishes of the genus
Umbrina, especially the Mediterranean species (U. cirrhosa), which is
highly esteemed as a market fish; -- called also ombre, and umbrine.
Umbra tree (Bot.), a tree (Phytolacca diocia) of the same genus as
pokeweed. It is native of South America, but is now grown in southern
Europe. It has large dark leaves, and a somber aspect. The juice of
its berries is used for coloring wine. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).

UMBRACULIFEROUS
Um*brac`u*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. umbraculum umbrella (dim. of umbra
shade) + -ferous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing something like an open umbrella.

UMBRACULIFORM
Um*brac`u*li*form, a. Etym: [L. umbraculum any thing that furnishes
shade, a bower, umbrella (dim. of umbra a shade) + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of anything that serves to shade, as a tree
top, an umbrella, and the like; specifically (Bot.), having the form
of an umbrella; umbrella-shaped.

UMBRAGE
Um"brage (; 48), n. Etym: [F. ombrage shade, suspicion, umbrage, L.
umbraticus belonging to shade, fr. umbra a shade. Cf. Umber,
Umbratic.]

1. Shade; shadow; obscurity; hence, that which affords a shade, as a
screen of trees or foliage.
Where highest woods, impenetrable To star or sunlight, spread their
umbrage broad. Milton.

2. Shadowy resemblance; shadow. [Obs.]
The opinion carries no show of truth nor umbrage of reason on its
side. Woodward.

3. The feeling of being overshadowed; jealousy of another, as
standing in one's light or way; hence, suspicion of injury or wrong;
offense; resentment.
Which gave umbrage to wiser than myself. Evelyn.
Persons who feel most umbrage from the overshadowing aristocracy. Sir
W. Scott.

UMBRAGEOUS
Um*bra"geous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ombraqeux shy, skittish, suspicious,
in OF. also, shady. See Umbrage.]

1. Forming or affording a shade; shady; shaded; as, umbrageous trees
or foliage.
Umbrageous grots and caves Of cool recess, o'er which the mantling
vine Lays forth her purple grape. Milton.

2. Not easily perceived, as if from being darkened or shaded;
obscure. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

3. Feeling jealousy or umbrage; taking, or disposed to take, umbrage;
suspicious. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton.
 -- Um*bra"geous*ly, adv.
 -- Um*bra"geous*ness, n.

UMBRATE
Um"brate, v. t. Etym: [L. umbratus, p. p. of umbrare to shade, fr.
umbra a shade.]

Defn: To shade; to shadow; to foreshadow. [Obs.]

UMBRATIC; UMBRATICAL
Um*brat"ic, Um*brat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. umbraticus, from umbra shade.
See Umbrage.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the shade or darkness; shadowy; unreal;
secluded; retired. [R.] B. Jonson.

UMBRATILE
Um"bra*tile, a. Etym: [L. umbraticus, fr. umbra shade.]

Defn: Umbratic. [R.] B. Jonson.

UMBRATIOUS
Um*bra"tious, a. Etym: [L. umbra a shade. Cf. Umbrageous.]

Defn: Suspicious; captious; disposed to take umbrage. [Obs. & R.] Sir
H. Wotton.

UMBRE
Um"bre, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Umber.

UMBREL
Um*brel", n.

Defn: An umbrella. [Obs. or Colloq.]
Each of them besides bore their umbrels. Shelton.

UMBRELLA
Um*brel"la, n. Etym: [It. umbrella, fr. ombra a shade, L. umbra; cf.
L. umbella a sunshade, a parasol. Cf. Umbel, Umbrage.]

1. A shade, screen, or guard, carried in the hand for sheltering the
person from the rays of the sun, or from rain or snow. It is formed
of silk, cotton, or other fabric, extended on strips of whalebone,
steel, or other elastic material, inserted, or fastened to, a rod or
stick by means of pivots or hinges, in such a way as to allow of
being opened and closed with ease. See Parasol.
Underneath the umbrella's oily shed. Gay.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The umbrellalike disk, or swimming bell, of a jellyfish.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any marine tectibranchiate gastropod of the genus Umbrella,
having an umbrella-shaped shell; -- called also umbrella shell.
Umbrella ant (Zoöl.), the sauba ant; -- so called because it carries
bits of leaves over its back when foraging. Called also parasol ant.
 -- Umbrella bird (Zoöl.), a South American bird (Cephalopterus
ornatus) of the family Cotingidæ. It is black, with a large handsome
crest consisting of a mass of soft, glossy blue feathers curved
outward at the tips. It also has a cervical plume consisting of a
long, cylindrical dermal process covered with soft hairy feathers.
Called also dragoon bird.
 -- Umbrella leaf (Bot.), an American perennial herb (Dyphylleia
cymosa), having very large peltate and lobed radical leaves.
 -- Umbrella shell. (Zoöl.) See Umbrella, 3.
 -- Umbrella tree (Bot.), a kind of magnolia (M. Umbrella) with the
large leaves arranged in umbrellalike clusters at the ends of the
branches. It is a native of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky.
Other plants in various countries are called by this name, especially
a kind of screw pine (Pandanus odoratissimus).

UMBRERE; UMBRIERE
Um*brere, Um*briere, n. Etym: [F. ombre a shade, L. umbra; cf. F.
ombrelle a sunshade, OF. also ombrière. See Umbrella.]

Defn: In ancient armor, a visor, or projection like the peak of a
cap, to which a face guard was sometimes attached. This was sometimes
fixed, and sometimes moved freely upon the helmet and could be raised
like the beaver. Called also umber, and umbril. [Obs.]
But only vented up her umbriere. Spenser.

UMBRETTE
Um*brette", n. Etym: [F. ombrette.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Umber, 4.

UMBRIFEROUS
Um*brif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. umbrifer; umbra a shade + ferre to
bear.]

Defn: Casting or making a shade; umbrageous.
 -- Um*brif"er*ous*ly, adv.

UMBRIL
Um"bril, n.

Defn: A umbrere. [Obs.]

UMBRINE
Um"brine, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Umbra, 2.

UMBROSE
Um"brose`, a. Etym: [L. umbrosus, fr. umbra a shade.]

Defn: Shady; umbrageous. [Obs.]

UMBROSITY
Um*bros"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being umbrose; shadiness. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

UMHOFO
Um*ho"fo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus, or Rhinoceros,
simus); -- called also chukuru, and white rhinoceros.

UMLAUT
Um"laut, n. Etym: [G., from um about + laut sound.] (Philol.)

Defn: The euphonic modification of a root vowel sound by the
influence of a, u, or especially i, in the syllable which formerly
followed.

Note: It is peculiar to the Teutonic languages, and was common in
Anglo-Saxon. In German the umlauted vowels resulting from a, o, u,
followed by old i, are written ä, ö, ü, or ae, oe, ue; as, männer or
maenner, men, from mann, man. Examples of forms resulting from umlaut
in English are geese pl. of goose, men pl. of man, etc.

UMLAUTED
Um"laut*ed, a. (Philol.)

Defn: Having the umlaut; as, umlauted vowels.
There is so natural connection between umlauted forms and plurality.
Earle.

UMPIRAGE
Um"pi*rage (; 48), n. Etym: [From Umpire.]

1. The office of an umpire; the power, right, or authority of an
umpire to decide.
The mind umpirage of the federal Union. E. Everett.

2. The act of umpiring; arbitrament. Bp. Hall.

UMPIRE
Um"pire, n. Etym: [OE. nompere, nounpere (also impier, fr. F. impair
uneven), fr. OF. nomper uneven, F. non-pair; hence the meaning,
uneven, i. e., third person; non not + OF. per even, equal, peer, F.
pair; cf. L. impar uneven, unequal. See Non-, and Peer, n.]

1. A person to whose sole decision a controversy or question between
parties is referred; especially, one chosen to see that the rules of
a game, as cricket, baseball, or the like, are strictly observed.
A man, in questions of this kind, is able to be a skillful umpire
between himself and others. Barrow.

2. (Law)

Defn: A third person, who is to decide a controversy or question
submitted to arbitrators in case of their disagreement. Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- Judge; arbitrator; referee. See Judge.

UMPIRE
Um"pire, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Umpired; p. pr. & vb. n. Umpiring.]

1. To decide as umpire; to arbitrate; to settle, as a dispute.
Judges appointed to umpire the matter in contest between them, and to
decide where the right lies. South.

2. To perform the duties of umpire in or for; as, to umpire a game.
[Colloq.]

UMPIRE
Um"pire, v. i.

Defn: To act as umpire or arbitrator.

UMPIRESHIP
Um"pire*ship, n.

Defn: Umpirage; arbitrament. Jewel.

UMPRESS
Um"press, n.

Defn: Female umpire. [R.] Marston.

UMPTEEN
umpteen, [Colloq.]

Defn: An indefinite number, usu. more than ten and less than one
hundred; a lot. Often used hyperbolically, and usually expressing the
notion of more than the usual number or more than I would like; --
"I've told you umpteen times not to do that." umpteenth. Ordinal of
umpteen, with corresponding signification.

UMQUHILE
Um"quhile, adv. Etym: [Cf. OF. umwhile for a time. See While.]

Defn: Some time ago; formerly. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
 -- a.

Defn: Former. [Scot.]

UN-
Un-. Etym: [OE. un-, on-, the unaccented form of the accented prefix
and- (cf. Answer); akin to D. ont-, G. ent-, OHG. int-, Goth. and-.
See Anti-.]

Defn: An inseparable verbal prefix or particle. It is prefixed: (a)
To verbs to express the contrary, and not the simple negative, of the
action of the verb to which it is prefixed; as in uncoil, undo,
unfold. (b) To nouns to form verbs expressing privation of the thing,
quality, or state expressed by the noun, or separation from it; as in
unchild, unsex. Sometimes particles and participial adjectives formed
with this prefix coincide in form with compounds of the negative
prefix un- (see 2d Un-); as in undone (from undo), meaning
unfastened, ruined; and undone (from 2d un- and done) meaning not
done, not finished. Un- is sometimes used with an intensive force
merely; as in unloose.

Note: Compounds of this prefix are given in full in their proper
order in the Vocabulary.

UN-
Un-. Etym: [OE. & AS. un-; akin to OFries. un-, D. on-, OS., OHG., &
G. un-, Icel. o-, u-, Sw. o-, Dan. u-, W. an-, L. in-, Gr. an-, a-.
*193. Cf. A- not In- not, No, adv.]

Defn: An inseparable prefix, or particle, signifying not; in-; non-.
In- is prefixed mostly to words of Latin origin, or else to words
formed by Latin suffixes; un- is of much wider application, and is
attached at will to almost any adjective, or participle used
adjectively, or adverb, from which it may be desired to form a
corresponding negative adjective or adverb, and is also, but less
freely, prefixed to nouns. Un- sometimes has merely an intensive
force; as in unmerciless, unremorseless. I.

Defn: Un- is prefixed to adjectives, or to words used adjectively.
Specifically: --
(a) To adjectives, to denote the absence of the quality designated by
the adjective; as, ------ and the like.

(b) To past particles, or to adjectives formed after the analogy of
past particles, to indicate the absence of the condition or state
expressed by them; as, -Unabolishable Unabsolvable Unabsurd
Unabundant Unaccordant Unadoptable Unadventurous Unaffable
Unaffectionate Unafraid Unalliable Unallowablew Unalterable
Unambiguous Unambitious Unamendable Un-American Unamusive Unangular
Unanxious Unapocryphal Unapostolic Unapparent Unappeasable
Unapplausive Unappreciable Unapprehensible Unapprehensive
Unapproachable Unartificial Unartistic Unassailable Unattainable
Unattentive Unauthentic Unavailable Unbailable Unbearable Unbeautiful
Unbeliefful Unbelievable Unbeneficial Unbenevolent Unblamable
Unblemishable Unblissful Unboastful Unbold Unbookish Unbounteous
Unbribable Unbrotherly Unburdensome Unbusinesslike Unbusy Uncandid
Uncanonical Uncaptious Uncareful Uncelestial Unceremonious
Unchallengeable Unchangeable Unchary Unchastisable Uncheerful

---- and the like.

(c) To present particles which come from intransitive verbs, or are
themselves employed as adjectives, to mark the absence of the
activity, disposition, or condition implied by the participle; as, --
--- and the like.

Note: The above classes of words are unlimited in extent, and such
compounds may be formed by any writer or speaker at will from almost
all the adjectives or participles in the language, excepting those
which have a recognized and usual negative correspondent with the
prefix -in. No attempt will be made, therefore, to define them all in
this Dictionary; many will be omitted from its Vocabulary which are
negations of the simple word, and are readily explained by prefixing
a not to the latter. Derivatives of these words in -ly and -ness will
also, for the most part, be omitted for the same or similar reasons.
There will be inserted as separate articles with definitions, the
following: --1. Those which have acquired an opposed or contrary,
instead of a merely negative, meaning; as, unfriendly, ungraceful,
unpalatable, unquiet, and the like; or else an intensive sense more
than a prefixed not would express; as, unending, unparalleled,
undisciplined, undoubted, unsafe, and the like. 2. Those which have
the value of independent words, inasmuch as the simple words are
either not used at all, or are rarely, or at least much less
frequently, used; as, unavoidable, unconscionable, undeniable,
unspeakable, unprecedented, unruly, and the like; or inasmuch as they
are used in a different sense from the usual meaning of the
primitive, or especially in one of the significations of the latter;
as, unaccountable, unalloyed, unbelieving, unpretending, unreserved,
and the like; or inasmuch as they are so frequently and familiarly
used that they are hardly felt to be of negative origin; as,
uncertain, uneven, and the like. 3. Those which are anomalous,
provincial, or, for some other reason, not desirable to be used, and
are so indicated; as, unpure for impure, unsatisfaction for
dissatisfaction, unexpressible for inexpressible, and the like. II.

Defn: Un- is prefixed to nouns to express the absence of, or the
contrary of, that which the noun signifies; as, unbelief, unfaith,
unhealth, unrest, untruth, and the like.

Note: Compounds of this last class are given in full in their proper
order in the Vocabulary.

UNABILITY
Un`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Inability. [Obs.]

UNABLE
Un*a"ble, a.

Defn: Not able; not having sufficient strength, means, knowledge,
skill, or the like; impotent' weak; helpless; incapable; -- now
usually followed by an infinitive or an adverbial phrase; as, unable
for work; unable to bear fatigue.
Sapless age and weak unable limbs. Shak.

UNABLED
Un*a"bled, a.

Defn: Disabled. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

UNABLENESS
Un*a"ble*ness, n.

Defn: Inability. [Obs.] Hales.

UNA BOAT
U"na boat`. (Naut.)

Defn: The English name for a catboat; -- so called because Una was
the name of the first boat of this kind taken to England. D. Kemp.

UNABRIDGED
Un`a*bridged", a.

Defn: Not abridged, or shortened; full; complete; entire; whole.

UNABSORBABLE
Un`ab*sorb"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not absorbable; specifically (Physiol.), not capable of
absorption; unable to pass by osmosis into the circulating blood; as,
the unabsorbable portion of food.

UNACCEPTABILITY
Un`ac*cept`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being unacceptable; unacceptableness.

UNACCEPTABLE
Un`ac*cept"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not acceptable; not pleasing; not welcome; unpleasant;
disagreeable; displeasing; offensive.
 -- Un`ac*cept"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Un`ac*cept"a*bly, adv.

UNACCESSIBLE
Un`ac*cess"i*ble, a.

Defn: Inaccessible. Herbert.

UNACCOMPLISHED
Un`ac*com"plished, a.

Defn: Not accomplished or performed; unfinished; also, deficient in
accomplishment; unrefined.

UNACCOMPLISHMENT
Un`ac*com"plish*ment, n.

Defn: The state of being unaccomplished. [Obs.] Milton.

UNACCOUNTABILITY
Un`ac*count`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being unaccountable.

UNACCOUNTABLE
Un`ac*count"a*ble, a.

1. Not accountable or responsible; free from control. South.

2. Not to be accounted for; inexplicable; not consonant with reason
or rule; strange; mysterious.
 -- Un`ac*count"a*ble*ness}, n.
 -- Un`ac*count"a*bly, adv.

UNACCURATE
Un*ac"cu*rate, a.

Defn: Inaccurate. Boyle.

UNACCURATENESS
Un*ac"cu*rate*ness, n.

Defn: Inaccuracy. Boyle.

UNACCUSTOMED
Un`ac*cus"tomed, a.

1. Not used; not habituated; unfamiliar; unused; -- which to.
Chastened as a bullock unaccustomed to yoke. Jer. xxxi. 18.

2. Not usual; uncommon; strange; new.
What unaccustomed cause procures her hither Shak.

UNACQUAINTANCE
Un`ac*quaint"ance, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being unacquainted; want of
acquaintance; ignorance.
He was then in happy unacquaintance with everything connected with
that obnoxious cavity. Sir W. Hamilton.

UNACQUAINTED
Un`ac*quaint"ed, a.

1. Not acquainted. Cowper.

2. Not usual; unfamiliar; strange. [Obs.]
And the unacquainted light began to fear. Spenser.

UNACQUAINTEDNESS
Un`ac*quaint"ed*ness, n.

Defn: Unacquaintance. Whiston.

UNACTIVE
Un*ac"tive, a.

Defn: Inactive; listless. [R.]
While other animals unactive range. Milton.

UNACTIVE
Un*ac"tive, v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + active; or from unactive,
a.]

Defn: To render inactive or listless. [Obs.] Fuller.

UNACTIVENESS
Un*ac"tive*ness, n.

Defn: Inactivity. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

UNADMISSIBLE; UNADMITTABLE
Un`ad*mis"si*ble, Un`ad*mit"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Inadmissible. [R.]

UNADULTERATE; UNADULTERATED
Un`a*dul"ter*ate, Un`a*dul"ter*a`ted, a.

Defn: Not adulterated; pure. "Unadulterate air." Cowper.
 -- Un`a*dul"ter*ate*ly, adv.

UNADVISABLE
Un`ad*vis"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not advisable; inadvisable; inexpedient. Lowth.
 -- Un`ad*vis"a*bly, adv.

UNADVISED
Un`ad*vised", a.

1. Not prudent; not discreet; ill advised. Shak.

2. Done without due consideration; wanton; rash; inconsiderate; as,
an unadvised proceeding.
 -- Un`ad*vis"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Un`ad*vis"ed*ness, n.

UNAFFECTED
Un`af*fect"ed, a.

1. Not affected or moved; destitute of affection or emotion;
uninfluenced.
A poor, cold, unspirited, unmannered, Unhonest, unaffected, undone
fool. J. Fletcher.

2. Free from affectation; plain; simple; natural; real; sincere;
genuine; as, unaffected sorrow.
 -- Un`af*fect"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Un`af*fect"ed*ness, n.

UNAFILED
Un`a*filed", a.

Defn: Undefiled. [Obs.] Gower.

UNAGREEABLE
Un`a*gree"a*ble, a.

1. Disagreeable.

2. Not agreeing or consistent; unsuitable. Shak.
 -- Un`a*gree"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Un`a*gree"a*bly, adv.

UNAIDABLE
Un*aid"a*ble, a.

Defn: Incapable of being aided. "Her unaidable estate." Shak.

UNALIENABLE
Un*al"ien*a*ble, a.

Defn: Inalienable; as, unalienable rights. Swift.
 -- Un*al"ien*a*bly, adv.

UNALIST
U"nal*ist, n. Etym: [L. unus one.] (Eccl.)

Defn: An ecclesiastical who holds but one benefice; -- distinguished
from pluralist. [Eng.] V. Knox.

UNALLIED
Un`al*lied", a.

Defn: Not allied; having no ally; having no connection or relation;
as, unallied species or genera.

UNALLOYED
Un`al*loyed", a.

Defn: Not alloyed; not reduced by foreign admixture; unmixed;
unqualified; pure; as, unalloyed metals; unalloyed happiness.
I enjoyed unalloyed satisfaction in his company. Mitford.

UNALMSED
Un*almsed", a.

Defn: Not having received alms. [Obs. & R.] Pollock.

UNAMBIGUITY
Un*am`bi*gu"i*ty, n.

Defn: Absence of ambiguity; clearness; perspicuity.

UNAMBITION
Un`am*bi"tion, n.

Defn: The absence of ambition. [R.] F. W. Newman.

UNAMIABILITY
Un*a`mi*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being unamiable; moroseness.

UNAMIABLE
Un*a"mi*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not amiable; morose; ill-natured; repulsive.
 -- Un*a"mi*a*bly, adv.

UNANCHOR
Un*an"chor, v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + anchor.]

Defn: To loose from the anchor, as a ship. De Quincey.

UNANELED
Un`a*neled", a.

Defn: Not aneled; not having received extreme unction. Shak.

UNANIMATE
U*nan"i*mate, a. Etym: [See Unanimous.]

Defn: Unanimous. [Obs.]

UNANIMITY
U`na*nim"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. unanimitas: cf. F. unanimité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being unanimous.

UNANIMOUS
U*nan"i*mous, a. Etym: [L. unanimus, unanimus; unus one + animus
mind: cf. F. unanime. See Unit, and Animate.]

1. Being of one mind; agreeing in opinion, design, or determination;
consentient; not discordant or dissentient; harmonious; as, the
assembly was unanimous; the members of the council were unanimous.
"Both in one faith unanimous." Milton.

2. Formed with unanimity; indicating unanimity; having the agreement
and consent of all; agreed upon without the opposition or
contradiction of any; as, a unanimous opinion; a unanimous vote.
 -- U*nan"i*mous*ly, adv.
 -- U*nan"i*mous*ness, n.

UNANSWERABILITY
Un*an`swer*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being unanswerable; unanswerableness.

UNANSWERABLE
Un*an"swer*a*ble, a.

Defn: Not answerable; irrefutable; conclusive; decisive; as, he have
an unanswerable argument.
 -- Un*an"swer*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Un*an"swer*a*bly, adv.

UNANSWERED
Un*an"swered, a.

1. Not answered; not replied; as, an unanswered letter.

2. Not refuted; as, an unanswered argument.

3. Not responded to in kind; unrequited; as, unanswered affection.

UNAPPALLED
Un`ap*palled", a.

Defn: Not appalled; not frightened; dauntless; undaunted. Milton.

UNAPPAREL
Un`ap*par"el, v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + apparel.]

Defn: To divest of clothing; to strip. [Obs.] Donne.

UNAPPEALABLE
Un`ap*peal"a*ble, a.

1. Not appealable; that can not be carried to a higher tribunal by
appeal; as, an unappealable suit or action.

2. Not to be appealed from; -- said of a judge or a judgment that can
not be overruled.
The infallible, unappealable Judge [God]. South.
We submitted to a galling yet unappealable necessity. Shelley.
-- Un`ap*peal"a*bly, adv.

UNAPPLIABLE
Un`ap*pli"a*ble, a.

Defn: Inapplicable. Milton.

UNAPPLICABLE
Un*ap"pli*ca*ble, a.

Defn: Inapplicable.

UNAPPROPRIATE
Un`ap*pro"pri*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. un- not + appropriate, a.]

1. Inappropriate; unsuitable.

2. Not appropriated. Bp. Warburton.

UNAPPROPRIATE
Un`ap*pro"pri*ate, v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + appropriate, v. t.]

Defn: To take from private possession; to restore to the possession
or right of all; as, to unappropriate a monopoly. [R.] Milton.

UNAPPROPRIATED
Un`ap*pro"pri*a`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. un- not + appropriated.]

1. Not specially appropriate; having not special application. J.
Warton.

2. Not granted to any person, corporation, or the like, to the
exclusion of others; as, unappropriated lands.

3. Not granted for, or applied to, any specific purpose; as, the
unappropriated moneys in the treasury.

UNAPPROVED
Un`ap*proved", a.

1. Not approved.

2. Not proved. [Obs.]

UNAPT
Un*apt", a.

1. Inapt; slow; dull. Bacon.

2. Unsuitable; unfit; inappropriate. Macaulay.

3. Not accustomed and not likely; not disposed.
I am a soldier and unapt to weep. Shak.
-- Un*apt"ly, adv.
 -- Un*apt"ness, n.

UNAQUIT
Un`a*quit", a. Etym: [See Un- not, and Acquit.]

Defn: Unrequited. [R. & Obs.] Gower.

UNARGUED
Un*ar"gued, a.

1. Not argued or debated.

2. Not argued against; undisputed. [Obs.] Milton.

3. Not censured. [A Latinism. Obs.] B. Jonson.

UNARM
Un*arm", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + arm.]

Defn: To disarm. Sir T. Browne.

UNARM
Un*arm", v. i.

Defn: To puff off, or lay down, one's arms or armor. "I'll unarm
again." Shak.

UNARMED
Un*armed", a. Etym: [Pref. un- not + armed.]

1. Not armed or armored; having no arms or weapons.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Having no hard and sharp projections, as spines, prickles,
spurs, claws, etc.

UNARTED
Un*art"ed, a.

1. Ignorant of the arts. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse.

2. Not artificial; plain; simple. [Obs.] Feltham.

UNARTFUL
Un*art"ful, a.

Defn: Lacking art or skill; artless. Congreve.
 -- Un*art"ful*ly, adv. Swift. Burke.

UNARTISTIC
Un`ar*tis"tic, a.

Defn: Inartistic.

UNASCRIED
Un`a*scried", a.

Defn: Not descried. [Obs.]

UNASERVED
Un`a*served", a.

Defn: Not served. [Obs.]

UNASSENTED
Un`as*sent"ed, a.

Defn: Not assented; -- said specif. of stocks or bonds the holders of
which refuse to deposit them by way of assent to an agreement
altering their status, as in a readjustment.

UNASSUMING
Un`as*sum"ing, a.

Defn: Not assuming; not bold or forward; not arrogant or presuming;
humble; modest; retiring; as, an unassuming youth; unassuming
manners.

UNASSURED
Un`as*sured", a.

1. Not assured; not bold or confident.

2. Not to be trusted. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. Not insured against loss; as, unassured goods.

UNATONABLE
Un`a*ton"a*ble, a.

1. Not capable of being brought into harmony; irreconcilable.
"Unatonable matrimony." [Obs.] Milton.

2. Incapable of being atoned for; inexpiable.

UNATTACHED
Un`at*tached", a.

1. Not attached; not adhering; having no engagement; free.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: Not assigned to any company or regiment.

3. (Law)

Defn: Not taken or arrested. R. Junius.

UNATTENTIVE
Un`at*ten"tive, a.

Defn: Inattentive; careless.

UNATTIRE
Un`at*tire", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + altire.]

Defn: To divest of attire; to undress.

UNAU
U*nau", n. Etym: [Brazilian.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The two-toed sloth (Cholopus didactylus), native of South
America. It is about two feet long. Its color is a uniform grayish
brown, sometimes with a reddish tint.

UNAUDIENCED
Un*au"di*enced, a.

Defn: Not given an audience; not received or heard.

UNAUSPICIOUS
Un`aus*pi"cious, a.

Defn: Inauspicious. Rowe.

UNAUTHORIZE
Un*au"thor*ize, v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + authorize.]

Defn: To disown the authority of; to repudiate.

UNAVOIDABLE
Un`a*void"a*ble, a.

1. Not avoidable; incapable of being shunned or prevented;
inevitable; necessary; as, unavoidable troubles.

2. (Law)

Defn: Not voidable; incapable of being made null or void. Blackstone.
Unavoidable hemorrhage (Med.), hemorrhage produced by the afterbirth,
or placenta, being situated over the mouth of the womb so as to
require detachment before the child can be born.
 -- Un`a*void"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Un`a*void"a*bly, adv.

UNAVOIDED
Un`a*void"ed, a.

1. Not avoided or shunned. Shak.

2. Unavoidable; inevitable. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

UNAWARE
Un`a*ware", a.

Defn: Not aware; not noticing; giving no heed; thoughtless;
inattentive. Swift.

UNAWARE
Un`a*ware", adv.

Defn: Unawares. [Poetic] Dryden.

UNAWARES
Un`a*wares", adv

Defn: , Without design or preparation; suddenly; without
premeditation, unexpectedly. "Mercies lighting unawares." J. H.
Newman.
Lest unawares we lose This our high place, our sanctuary, our hill.
Milton.
At unaware, or At unawares, unexpectedly; by surprise.
He breaks at unawares upon our walks. Dryden.
So we met In this old sleepy town an at unaware. R. Browning.

UNBACKED
Un*backed", a.

1. Never mounted by a rider; unbroken. "Unbacked colts." Shak.

2. Not supported or encouraged; not countenanced; unaided. Daniel.

UNBAG
Un*bag", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + bag.]

Defn: To pour, or take, or let go, out of a bag or bags.

UNBALANCED
Un*bal"anced, a. Etym: [In senses 1 and 2, pref. un- not + balanced;
in sense 3, 1st pref. un- + balance.]

1. Not balanced; not in equipoise; having no counterpoise, or having
insufficient counterpoise.
Let Earth unbalanced from her orbit fly. Pope.

2. (Com.)

Defn: Not adjusted; not settled; not brought to an equality of debt
and credit; as, an unbalanced account; unbalanced books.

3. Being, or being thrown, out of equilibrium; hence, disordered or
deranged in sense; unsteady; unsound; as, an unbalanced mind. Pope.

UNBALLAST
Un*bal"last, v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + ballast.]

Defn: To free from ballast; to discharge ballast from. Totten.

UNBALLAST
Un*bal"last, a.

Defn: Not ballasted. [Obs. & R.] Addison.

UNBALLASTED
Un*bal"last*ed, a.

1. Etym: [Properly p. p. unballast.]

Defn: Freed from ballast; having discharged ballast.

2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + ballasted.]

Defn: Not furnished with ballast; not kept steady by ballast;
unsteady; as, unballasted vessels; unballasted wits.
Unballasted by any sufficient weight of plan. De Quincey.

UNBANED
Un*ban"ed, a. Etym: [1st un- + band + -ed.]

Defn: Wanting a band or string; unfastened. [Obs.] Shak.

UNBANK
Un*bank", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + bank.]

Defn: To remove a bank from; to open by, or as if by, the removal of
a bank. H. Taylor.

UNBAR
Un*bar", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + bar.]

Defn: To remove a bar or bars from; to unbolt; to open; as, to unbar
a gate. Heber.

UNBARBED
Un*barbed", a.

1. Not shaven. [Obs.]

2. Destitute of bards, or of reversed points, hairs, or plumes; as,
an unbarded feather.

UNBARK
Un*bark", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + bark rind.]

Defn: To deprive of the bark; to decorticate; to strip; as, to unbark
a tree. Bacon.

UNBARK
Un*bark", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + bark the vessel.]

Defn: To cause to disembark; to land. [Obs.] Hakluyt.

UNBARREL
Un*bar"rel, v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + barrel.]

Defn: To remove or release from a barrel or barrels.

UNBARRICADE
Un*bar`ri*cade", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + barricade.]

Defn: To unbolt; to unbar; to open.
You shall not unbarricade the door. J. Webster (1623).

UNBARRICADOED
Un*bar`ri*ca"doed, a.

Defn: Not obstructed by barricades; open; as, unbarricadoed streets.
Burke.

UNBASHFUL
Un*bash"ful, a.

Defn: Not bashful or modest; bold; impudent; shameless. Shak.

UNBAY
Un*bay", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + bay to dam.]

Defn: To free from the restraint of anything that surrounds or
incloses; to let loose; to open. [Obs.]
I ought . . . to unbay the current of my passion. Norris.

UNBE
Un*be", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + be.]

Defn: To cause not to be; to cause to be another. [Obs. & R.]
How oft, with danger of the field beset, Or with home mutinies, would
he unbe Himself! Old Pay.

UNBEAR
Un*bear", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + bear to support.]

Defn: To remove or loose the bearing rein of (a horse).

UNBEAT
Un*beat", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + beast.]

Defn: To deliver from the form or nature of a beast.

UNBECOME
Un`be*come", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + become.]

Defn: To misbecome. [Obs.] Bp. Sherlock.

UNBECOMING
Un`be*com"ing, a. Etym: [Pref. un- not + becoming.]

Defn: Not becoming; unsuitable; unfit; indecorous; improper.
My grief lets unbecoming speeches fall. Dryden.
-- Un`be*com"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Un`be*com"ing*ness, n.

UNBED
Un*bed", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + bed.]

Defn: To raise or rouse from bed.
Eels unbed themselves and stir at the noise of thunder. Wa

UNBEDINNED
Un`be*dinned", a.

Defn: Not filled with din.