

VOLERY
Vol"er*y, n. Etym: [F. volerie a flying, volière a large bird cage,
fr. voler to fly, L. volare. See Volatile.]

1. A flight of birds. [R.] Locke.

2. A large bird cage; an aviary.

VOLGE
Volge, n. Etym: [L. vulgus.]

Defn: The common sort of people; the crowd; the mob. [Obs.] Fuller.

VOLITABLE
Vol"i*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Volatilizable. [Obs.]

VOLITATION
Vol`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. volitare, volitatum, to fly to and fro,
v. freq. from volare to fly.]

Defn: The act of flying; flight. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

VOLITIENT
Vo*li"tient, a. Etym: [See Volition.]

Defn: Exercising the will; acting from choice; willing, or having
power to will. "What I do, I do volitient, not obedient." Mrs.
Browning.

VOLITION
Vo*li"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. volo I will, velle to will, be
willing. See Voluntary.]

1. The act of willing or choosing; the act of forming a purpose; the
exercise of the will.
Volition is the actual exercise of the power the mind has to order
the consideration of any idea, or the forbearing to consider it.
Locke.
Volition is an act of the mind, knowingly exerting that dominion it
takes itself to have over any part of the man, by employing it in, or
withholding it from, any particular action. Locke.

2. The result of an act or exercise of choosing or willing; a state
of choice.

3. The power of willing or determining; will.

Syn.
 -- Will; choice; preference; determination; purpose.
 -- Volition, Choice. Choice is the familiar, and volition the
scientific, term for the same state of the will; viz., an "elective
preference." When we have "made up our minds" (as we say) to a thing,
i. e., have a settled state of choice respecting it, that state is
called an immanent volition; when we put forth any particular act of
choice, that act is called an emanent, or executive, or imperative,
volition. When an immanent, or settled state of, choice, is one which
controls or governs a series of actions, we call that state a
predominant volition; while we give the name of subordinate volitions
to those particular acts of choice which carry into effect the object
sought for by the governing or "predominant volition." See Will.

VOLITIONAL
Vo*li"tion*al, a.

Defn: Belonging or relating to volition. "The volitional impulse."
Bacon.

VOLITIVE
Vol"i*tive, a. Etym: [See Volition.]

1. Of or pertaining to the will; originating in the will; having the
power to will. "They not only perfect the intellectual faculty, but
the volitive." Sir M. Hale.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Used in expressing a wish or permission as, volitive
proposition.

VOLKSLIED
Volks"lied, n.; pl. Volkslieder Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: A popular song, or national air.

VOLKSRAAD
Volks"raad`, n. [D.]

Defn: A legislative assembly or parliament of any one of several
countries colonized by the Dutch, esp. that of the South African
Republic, or the Transvaal, and that of the Orange Free State.

VOLLEY
Vol"ley, n.; pl. Volleys. Etym: [F. volée; flight, a volley, or
discharge of several guns, fr. voler to fly, L. volare. See
Volatile.]

1. A flight of missiles, as arrows, bullets, or the like; the
simultaneous discharge of a number of small arms.
Fiery darts in flaming volleys flew. Milton.
Each volley tells that thousands cease to breathe. Byron.

2. A burst or emission of many things at once; as, a volley of words.
"This volley of oaths." B. Jonson.
Rattling nonsense in full volleys breaks. Pope.

3.
(a) (Tennis) A return of the ball before it touches the ground.
(b) (Cricket) A sending of the ball full to the top of the wicket.

Half volley. (a) (Tennis) A return of the ball immediately after is
has touched the ground. (b) (Cricket) A sending of the ball so that
after touching the ground it flies towards the top of the wicket. R.
A. Proctor.
 -- On the volley, at random. [Obs.] "What we spake on the volley
begins work." Massinger.
 -- Volley gun, a gun with several barrels for firing a number of
shots simultaneously; a kind of mitrailleuse.

VOLLEY
Vol"ley, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Volleyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Volleying.]

Defn: To discharge with, or as with, a volley.

VOLLEY
Vol"ley, v. i.

1. To be thrown out, or discharged, at once; to be discharged in a
volley, or as if in a volley; to make a volley or volleys. Tennyson.

2.
(a) (Tennis) To return the ball before it touches the ground.
(b) (Cricket) To send the ball full to the top of the wicket. R. A.
Proctor.

VOLLEY BALL
Vol"ley ball.

Defn: A game played by volleying a large inflated ball with the hands
over a net 7 ft. 6 in. high.

VOLLEYED
Vol"leyed, a.

Defn: Discharged with a sudden burst, or as if in a volley; as,
volleyed thunder.

VOLOST
Vo"lost, n. [Russ. volost'.]

Defn: In the greater part of Russia, a division for local government
consisting of a group of mirs, or village communities; a canton.

VOLOW
Vol"ow, v. t. Etym: [From the answer, Volo I will, in the baptismal
service. Richardson (Dict.).]

Defn: To baptize; -- used in contempt by the Reformers. [Obs.]
Tyndale.

VOLPLANE
Vol"plane`, v. i. [F. vol plané act of volplaning; vol flight +
plané, p.p.; cf. planer to hover.] (Aëronautics)

Defn: To glide in a flying machine.

VOLT
Volt, n. Etym: [F. volte; cf. It. volta. See Vault.]

1. (Man.)

Defn: A circular tread; a gait by which a horse going sideways round
a center makes two concentric tracks.

2. (Fencing)

Defn: A sudden movement to avoid a thrust.

VOLT
Volt, n. Etym: [After Alessandro Volta, the Italian electrician.]
(Elec.)

Defn: The unit of electro-motive force; -- defined by the
International Electrical Congress in 1893 and by United States
Statute as, that electro-motive force which steadily applied to a
conductor whose resistance is one ohm will produce a current of one
ampère. It is practically equivalent to

VOLTA
Vol"ta, n.; pl. Volte. Etym: [It. volta a turn, turning, a time. See
Volt a tread.] (Mus.)

Defn: A turning; a time; -- chiefly used in phrases signifying that
the part is to be repeated one, two, or more times; as, una volta,
once. Seconda volta, second time, points to certain modifications in
the close of a repeated strain.

VOLTA-ELECTRIC
Vol"ta-e*lec"tric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to voltaic electricity, or voltaism.

VOLTA-ELECTROMETER
Vol`ta-e`lec*trom"e*ter, n.

Defn: An instrument for the exact measurement of electric currents.

VOLTAGE
Vol"tage, n. (Elec.)

Defn: Electric potential or potential difference, expressed in volts.

VOLTAGRAPHY
Vol*tag"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Voltaic + -graphy.]

Defn: In electrotypy, the act or art of copying, in metals deposited
by electrolytic action, a form or pattern which is made the negative
electrode. [R.]

VOLTAIC
Vol*ta"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. voltaïque, It. voltaico.]

1. Of or pertaining to Alessandro Volta, who first devised apparatus
for developing electric currents by chemical action, and established
this branch of electric science; discovered by Volta; as, voltaic
electricity.

2. Of or pertaining to voltaism, or voltaic electricity; as, voltaic
induction; the voltaic arc.

Note: See the Note under Galvanism. Voltaic arc, a luminous arc, of
intense brilliancy, formed between carbon points as electrodes by the
passage of a powerful voltaic current.
 -- Voltaic battery, an apparatus variously constructed, consisting
of a series of plates or pieces of dissimilar metals, as copper and
zinc, arranged in pairs, and subjected to the action of a saline or
acid solution, by which a current of electricity is generated
whenever the two poles, or ends of the series, are connected by a
conductor; a galvanic battery. See Battery, 4. (b), and Note.
 -- Voltaic circuit. See under Circuit.
 -- Voltaic couple or element, a single pair of the connected plates
of a battery.
 -- Voltaic electricity. See the Note under Electricity.
 -- Voltaic pile, a kind of voltaic battery consisting of alternate
disks of dissimilar metals, separated by moistened cloth or paper.
See 5th Pile.
 -- Voltaic protection of metals, the protection of a metal exposed
to the corrosive action of sea water, saline or acid liquids, or the
like, by associating it with a metal which is positive to it, as when
iron is galvanized, or coated with zinc.

VOLTAIREAN
Vol*tair"e*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. voltairien.]

Defn: Of or relating to Voltaire, the French author. J. Morley.

VOLTAIRISM
Vol*tair"ism, n.

Defn: The theories or practice of Voltaire. J. Morley.

VOLTAISM
Vol"ta*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. voltaïsme.] (Physics)

Defn: That form of electricity which is developed by the chemical
action between metals and different liquids; voltaic electricity;
also, the science which treats of this form of electricity; -- called
also galvanism, from Galvani, on account of his experiments showing
the remarkable influence of this agent on animals.

VOLTAMETER
Vol*tam"e*ter, n. Etym: [Voltaic + -meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the voltaic electricity passing
through it, by its effect in decomposing water or some other chemical
compound acting as an electrolyte.

VOLTAMMETER
Volt*am"me`ter, n.

Defn: A wattmeter.

VOLT AMPERE
Volt ampère. (Elec.)

Defn: A unit of electric measurement equal to the product of a volt
and an ampere. For direct current it is a measure of power and is the
same as a watt; for alternating current it is a measure of apparent
power.

VOLTAPLAST
Vol"ta*plast, n. Etym: [Voltaic + Gr.

Defn: A form of voltaic, or galvanic, battery suitable for use
electrotyping. G. Francis.

VOLTATYPE
Vol"ta*type, n. Etym: [Voltaic + type.]

Defn: An electrotype. [R.]

VOLTI
Vol"ti, imperative. Etym: [It., fr. voltare to turn. See Volt a
tread.] (Mus.)

Defn: Turn, that is, turn over the leaf. Volti subito Etym: [It.]
(Mus.), turn over quickly.

VOLTIGEUR
Vol`ti*geur, n. Etym: [F., fr. voltiger to vault, It. volteggiare.
See Volt a tread.]

1. A tumbler; a leaper or vaulter.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: One of a picked company of irregular riflemen in each regiment
of the French infantry.

VOLTMETER
Volt"me`ter, n. Etym: [2d volt + -meter.] (elec.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring in volts the differences of
potential between different points of an electrical circuit.

VOLTZITE
Voltz"ite, n. Etym: [So named in honor of Voltz, a French engineer.]
(Min.)

Defn: An oxysulphide of lead occurring in implanted spherical
globules of a yellowish or brownish color; -- called also voltzine.

VOLUBILATE; VOLUBILE
Vo*lu"bi*late, Vol"u*bile}, a. Etym: [See Voluble.]

Defn: Turning, or whirling; winding; twining; voluble.

VOLUBILITY
Vol`u*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. volubilitas: cf. F. volubilité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being voluble (in any of the senses of
the adjective).

VOLUBLE
Vol"u*ble, a. Etym: [L. volubilis, fr. volvere, volutum, to roll, to
turn round; akin to Gr. welle a wave: cf. F. voluble. Cf. F. Well of
water, Convolvulus, Devolve, Involve, Revolt, Vault an arch, Volume,
Volute.]

1. Easily rolling or turning; easily set in motion; apt to roll;
rotating; as, voluble particles of matter.

2. Moving with ease and smoothness in uttering words; of rapid
speech; nimble in speaking; glib; as, a flippant, voluble, tongue.
[Cassio,] a knave very voluble. Shak.

Note: Voluble was used formerly to indicate readiness of speech
merely, without any derogatory suggestion. "A grave and voluble
eloquence." Bp. Hacket.

3. Changeable; unstable; fickle. [Obs.]

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the power or habit of turning or twining; as, the
voluble stem of hop plants. Voluble stem (Bot.), a stem that climbs
by winding, or twining, round another body.
 -- Vol"u*ble*ness, n.
 -- Vol"u*bly, adv.

VOLUME
Vol"ume, n. Etym: [F., from L. volumen a roll of writing, a book,
volume, from volvere, volutum, to roll. See Voluble.]

1. A roll; a scroll; a written document rolled up for keeping or for
use, after the manner of the ancients. [Obs.]
The papyrus, and afterward the parchment, was joined together [by the
ancients] to form one sheet, and then rolled upon a staff into a
volume (volumen). Encyc. Brit.

2. Hence, a collection of printed sheets bound together, whether
containing a single work, or a part of a work, or more than one work;
a book; a tome; especially, that part of an extended work which is
bound up together in one cover; as, a work in four volumes.
An odd volume of a set of books bears not the value of its proportion
to the set. Franklin.

4. Anything of a rounded or swelling form resembling a roll; a turn;
a convolution; a coil.
So glides some trodden serpent on the grass, And long behind wounded
volume trails. Dryden.
Undulating billows rolling their silver volumes. W. Irving.

4. Dimensions; compass; space occupied, as measured by cubic units,
that is, cubic inches, feet, yards, etc.; mass; bulk; as, the volume
of an elephant's body; a volume of gas.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: Amount, fullness, quantity, or caliber of voice or tone. Atomic
volume, Molecular volume (Chem.), the ratio of the atomic and
molecular weights divided respectively by the specific gravity of the
substance in question.
 -- Specific volume (Physics & Chem.), the quotient obtained by
dividing unity by the specific gravity; the reciprocal of the
specific gravity. It is equal (when the specific gravity is referred
to water at 4º C. as a standard) to the number of cubic centimeters
occupied by one gram of the substance.

VOLUMED
Vol"umed, a.

1. Having the form of a volume, or roil; as, volumed mist.
The distant torrent's rushing sound Tells where the volumed cataract
doth roll. Byron.

2. Having volume, or bulk; massive; great.

VOLUMENOMETER
Vol`u*me*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. volumen volume + -meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the volume of a body, especially a
solid, by means of the difference in tension caused by its presence
and absence in a confined portion of air.

VOLUMENOMETRY
Vol`u*me*nom"e*try, n. (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: The method or process of measuring volumes by means of the
volumenometer.

VOLUMESCOPE
Vol*u"me*scope, n. Etym: [Volume + -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument consisting essentially of a glass tube provided
with a graduated scale, for exhibiting to the eye the changes of
volume of a gas or gaseous mixture resulting from chemical action,
and the like.

VOLUMESCOPE
Vo*lu"me*scope, n.  [Volume + -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument consisting essentially of a glass tube provided
with a graduated scale, for exhibiting to the eye the changes of
volume of a gas or gaseous mixture resulting from chemical action,
etc.

VOLUMETER
Vol*u"me*ter, n. Etym: [Cf. F. volumètre. See Volumetric.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the volumes of gases or liquids by
introducing them into a vessel of known capacity.

VOLUMETRIC
Vol`u*met"ric, a. Etym: [Volume + -metric.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the measurement of volume. Volumetric
analysis (Chem.), that system of the quantitative analysis of
solutions which employs definite volumes of standardized solutions of
reagents, as measured by burettes, pipettes, etc.; also, the analysis
of gases by volume, as by the eudiometer.

VOLUMETRICAL
Vol`u*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Volumetric.
 -- Vol`u*met"ric*al*ly, adv.

VOLUMINOUS
Vo*lu"mi*nous, a. Etym: [L. voluminosus: cf. F. volumineux.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to volume or volumes. Specifically: --
(a) Consisting of many folds, coils, or convolutions.
But ended foul in many a scaly fold, Voluminous and vast. Milton.
Over which dusky draperies are hanging, and voluminous curtains have
long since fallen. De Quincey.

(b) Of great volume, or bulk; large. B. Jonson. (c) Consisting of
many volumes or books; as, the collections of Muratori are
voluminous.
(d) Having written much, or produced many volumes; copious; diffuse;
as, a voluminous writer.
 -- Vo*lu"mi*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Vo*lu"mi*nous*ness, n.

VOLUMIST
Vol"u*mist, n.

Defn: One who writes a volume; an author. [Obs.] Milton.

VOLUNTARILY
Vol"un*ta*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a voluntary manner; of one's own will; spontaneously.

VOLUNTARINESS
Vol"un*ta*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being voluntary; spontaneousness;
specifically, the quality or state of being free in the exercise of
one's will.

VOLUNTARISM
Vol"un*ta*rism, n.

Defn: Any theory which conceives will to be the dominant factor in
experience or in the constitution of the world; -- contrasted with
intellectualism. Schopenhauer and Fichte are typical exponents of the
two types of metaphysical voluntarism, Schopenhauer teaching that the
evolution of the universe is the activity of a blind and irrational
will, Fichte holding that the intelligent activity of the ego is the
fundamental fact of reality.

VOLUNTARY
Vol"un*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. voluntarius, fr. voluntas will, choice,
from the root of velle to will, p. pr. volens; akin to E. will: cf.
F. volontaire, Of. also voluntaire. See Will, v. t., and cf.
Benevolent, Volition, Volunteer.]

1. Proceeding from the will; produced in or by an act of choice.
That sin or guilt pertains exclusively to voluntary action is the
true principle of orthodoxy. N. W. Taylor.

2. Unconstrained by the interference of another; unimpelled by the
influence of another; not prompted or persuaded by another; done of
his or its own accord; spontaneous; acting of one's self, or of
itself; free.
Our voluntary service he requires. Milton.
She fell to lust a voluntary prey. Pope.

3. Done by design or intention; intentional; purposed; intended; not
accidental; as, if a man kills another by lopping a tree, it is not
voluntary manslaughter.

4. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the will; subject to, or regulated by, the
will; as, the voluntary motions of an animal, such as the movements
of the leg or arm (in distinction from involuntary motions, such as
the movements of the heart); the voluntary muscle fibers, which are
the agents in voluntary motion.

5. Endowed with the power of willing; as, man is a voluntary agent.
God did not work as a necessary, but a voluntary, agent, intending
beforehand, and decreeing with himself, that which did outwardly
proceed from him. Hooker.

6. (Law)

Defn: Free; without compulsion; according to the will, consent, or
agreement, of a party; without consideration; gratuitous; without
valuable consideration.

7. (Eccl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to voluntaryism; as, a voluntary church, in
distinction from an established or state church. Voluntary affidavit
or oath (Law), an affidavit or oath made in extrajudicial matter.
 -- Voluntary conveyance (Law), a conveyance without valuable
consideration.
 -- Voluntary escape (Law), the escape of a prisoner by the express
consent of the sheriff.
 -- Voluntary jurisdiction. (Eng. Eccl. Law) See Contentious
jurisdiction, under Contentious.
 -- Voluntary waste. (Law) See Waste, n., 4.

Syn.
 -- See Spontaneous.

VOLUNTARY
Vol"un*ta*ry, n.; pl. Voluntaries (.

1. One who engages in any affair of his own free will; a volunteer.
[R.] Shak.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A piece played by a musician, often extemporarily, according to
his fancy; specifically, an organ solo played before, during, or
after divine service.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: One who advocates voluntaryism.

VOLUNTARYISM
Vol"un*ta*ry*ism, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: The principle of supporting a religious system and its
institutions by voluntary association and effort, rather than by the
aid or patronage of the state.

VOLUNTEER
Vol`un*teer", n. Etym: [F. volontaire. See Voluntary, a.]

1. One who enters into, or offers for, any service of his own free
will.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: One who enters into service voluntarily, but who, when in
service, is subject to discipline and regulations like other
soldiers; -- opposed to conscript; specifically, a voluntary member
of the organized militia of a country as distinguished from the
standing army.

3. (Law)

Defn: A grantee in a voluntary conveyance; one to whom a conveyance
is made without valuable consideration; a party, other than a wife or
child of the grantor, to whom, or for whose benefit, a voluntary
conveyance is made. Burrill.

VOLUNTEER
Vol`un*teer", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a volunteer or volunteers; consisting of
volunteers; voluntary; as, volunteer companies; volunteer advice.

VOLUNTEER
Vol`un*teer", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Volunteered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Volunteering.]

Defn: To offer or bestow voluntarily, or without solicitation or
compulsion; as, to volunteer one's services.

VOLUNTEER
Vol`un*teer", v. i.

Defn: To enter into, or offer for, any service of one's own free
will, without solicitation or compulsion; as, he volunteered in that
undertaking.

VOLUNTEER NAVY
Vol`un*teer" na"vy.

Defn: A navy of vessels fitted out and manned by volunteers who sail
under the flag of the regular navy and subject to naval discipline.
Prussia in 1870, in the Franco-German war, organized such a navy,
which was commanded by merchant seamen with temporary commissions,
with the claim (in which England acquiesced) that it did not come
within the meaning of the term privateer.

VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA
Vol`un*teers" of America.

Defn: A religious and philanthropic organization, similar to the
Salvation Army, founded (1896) by Commander and Mrs. Ballington
Booth.

VOLUNTEER STATE
Volunteer State.

Defn: Tennessee; -- a nickname.

VOLUPERE
Vol"u*pere, n. Etym: [Cf. Envelop.]

Defn: A woman's cap. [Obs.] Chaucer.

VOLUPTUARY
Vo*lup"tu*a*ry, n.; pl. Voluptuaries. Etym: [L. voluptuarius or
voluptarius, fr. voluptas pleasure.]

Defn: A voluptuous person; one who makes his physical enjoyment his
chief care; one addicted to luxury, and the gratification of sensual
appetites.
A good-humored, but hard-hearted, voluptuary. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- Sensualist; epicure.

VOLUPTUARY
Vo*lup"tu*a*ry, a.

Defn: Voluptuous; luxurious.

VOLUPTUOUS
Vo*lup"tu*ous, a. Etym: [F. voluptueux, L. voluptuosus, fr. voluptas
pleasure, volup agreeably, delightfully; probably akin to Gr. velle
to wish. See Voluntary.]

1. Full of delight or pleasure, especially that of the senses;
ministering to sensuous or sensual gratification; exciting sensual
desires; luxurious; sensual.
Music arose with its voluptuous swell. Byron.
Sink back into your voluptuous repose. De Quincey.

2. Given to the enjoyments of luxury and pleasure; indulging to
excess in sensual gratifications. "The jolly and voluptuous livers."
Atterbury.
Softened with pleasure and voluptuous life. Milton.
-- Vo*lup"tu*ous*ly, adv.
 -- , n.

VOLUPTY
Vo*lup"ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. volupté pleasure. See Voluptuous.]

Defn: Voluptuousness. [Obs.]

VOLUTA
Vo*lu"ta, n.; pl. E. Volutas, L. Volutæ. Etym: [L., a spiral scroll.
See Volute.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of large, handsome marine
gastropods belonging to Voluta and allied genera.

VOLUTATION
Vol`u*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. volutatio, from volutare to roll, wallow,
verb freq. volvere, volutum, to roll.]

Defn: A rolling of a body; a wallowing. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

VOLUTE
Vo*lute", n. Etym: [F. volute (cf. It. voluta), L. voluta, from
volvere, volutum, to roll. See Voluble.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A spiral scroll which forms the chief feature of the Ionic
capital, and which, on a much smaller scale, is a feature in the
Corinthian and Composite capitals. See Illust. of Capital, also
Helix, and Stale.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spiral turn, as in certain shells.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any voluta. Volute spiring, a spring formed of a spiral scroll
of plate, rod, or wire, extended or extensible in the direction of
the axis of the coil, in which direction its elastic force is exerted
and employed.

VOLUTED
Vo*lut"ed, a.

Defn: Having a volute, or spiral scroll.

VOLUTION
Vo*lu"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. volutio an arch, vault.]

1. A spiral turn or wreath.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A whorl of a spiral shell.

VOLVA
Vol"va, n. Etym: [L. volva, vulva, covering.] (Bot.)

Defn: A saclike envelope of certain fungi, which bursts open as the
plant develops.

VOLVOX
Vol"vox, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of minute, pale-green, globular, organisms, about one
fiftieth of an inch in diameter, found rolling through water, the
motion being produced by minute colorless cilia. It has been
considered as belonging to the flagellate Infusoria, but is now
referred to the vegetable kingdom, and each globule is considered a
colony of many individuals. The commonest species is Volvox globator,
often called globe animalcule.

VOLVULUS
Vol"vu*lus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. volvere to turn about, to roll.]
(Med.)
(a) The spasmodic contraction of the intestines which causes colic.
(b) Any twisting or displacement of the intestines causing
obstruction; ileus. See Ileus.

VOLYER
Vol"yer, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lurcher. [Prov. Eng.]

VOMER
Vo"mer, n. Etym: [L., a plowshare.] (Anat.)
(a) A bone, or one of a pair of bones, beneath the ethmoid region of
the skull, forming a part a part of the partition between the
nostrils in man and other mammals.
(b) The pygostyle.

VOMERINE
Vo"mer*ine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the vomer.

VOMICA
Vom"i*ca, n. Etym: [L., fr. vomere to throw up, vomit.] (Med.)
(a) An abscess cavity in the lungs.
(b) An abscess in any other parenchymatous organ.

VOMICINE
Vom"i*cine, n. Etym: [From nux vomica.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Brucine.

VOMIC NUT
Vom"ic nut`. Etym: [Cf. F. noix vomique.]

Defn: Same as Nux vomica.

VOMIT
Vom"it, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Vomited; p. pr. & vb. n. Vomiting.] Etym:
[Cf. L. vomere, vomitum, and v. freq. vomitare. See Vomit, n.]

Defn: To eject the contents of the stomach by the mouth; to puke; to
spew.

VOMIT
Vom"it, v. t.

1. To throw up; to eject from the stomach through the mouth; to
disgorge; to puke; to spew out; -- often followed by up or out.
The fish . . . vomited out Jonah upon the dry land. Jonah ii. 10.

2. Hence, to eject from any hollow place; to belch forth; to emit; to
throw forth; as, volcanoes vomit flame, stones, etc.
Like the sons of Vulcan, vomit smoke. Milton.

VOMIT
Vom"it, n. Etym: [L. vomitus, from vomere, vomitum, to vomit; akin to
Gr. vam, Lith. vemiti. Cf. Emetic, Vomito.]

1. Matter that is vomited; esp., matter ejected from the stomach
through the mouth.
Like vomit from his yawning entrails poured. Sandys.

2. (Med.)

Defn: That which excites vomiting; an emetic.
He gives your Hollander a vomit. Shak.
Black vomit. (Med.) See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Vomit nut, nux vomica.

VOMITING
Vom"it*ing, n.

Defn: The spasmodic ejection of matter from the stomach through the
mouth.

VOMITION
Vo*mi"tion, n. Etym: [L. vomitio.]

Defn: The act or power of vomiting. Grew.

VOMITIVE
Vom"i*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. vomitif.]

Defn: Causing the ejection of matter from the stomach; emetic.

VOMITO
Vo*mi"to, n. Etym: [Sp. vómito, fr. L. vomitus. See Vomit, n.] (Med.)

Defn: The yellow fever in its worst form, when it is usually attended
with black vomit. See Black vomit.

VOMITORY
Vom"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. vomitorious.]

Defn: Causing vomiting; emetic; vomitive.

VOMITORY
Vom"i*to*ry, n.; pl. Vomitories (.

1. An emetic; a vomit. Harvey.

2. Etym: [L. vomitorium.] (Arch.)

Defn: A principal door of a large ancient building, as of an
amphitheater.
Sixty-four vomitories . . . poured forth the immense multitude.
Gibbon.

VOMITURITION
Vom`i*tu*ri"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. vomiturition.] (Med.)
(a) An ineffectual attempt to vomit.
(b) The vomiting of but little matter; also, that vomiting which is
effected with little effort. Dunglison.

VONDSIRA
Vond*si"ra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Vansire.

VOODOO
Voo"doo, n.

1. See Voodooism.

2. One who practices voodooism; a negro sorcerer.

VOODOO
Voo"doo, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to voodooism, or a voodoo; as, voodoo
incantations.

VOODOOISM
Voo"doo*ism, n. Etym: [Probably (through Creole French vaudoux a
negro sorcerer) fr. F. Vaudois Waldensian, because the Waldenses were
accused of sorcery.]

Defn: A degraded form of superstition and sorcery, said to include
human sacrifices and cannibalism in some of its rites. It is
prevalent among the negroes of Hayti, and to some extent in the
United States, and is regarded as a relic of African barbarism.

VOORTREKER
Voor"trek`er, n. [D. (in South Africa).]

Defn: One who treks before or first; a pioneer. [South Africa]

VORACIOUS
Vo*ra"cious, a. Etym: [L. vorax, -acis, fr. vorare to devour; akin to
Gr. gar. Cf. Devour.]

Defn: Greedy in eating; very hungry; eager to devour or swallow;
ravenous; gluttonous; edacious; rapacious; as, a voracious man or
appetite; a voracious gulf or whirlpool. Dampier.
 -- Vo*ra"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Vo*ra"cious*ness, n.

VORACITY
Vo*rac"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. voracitas: cf. F. voracité.]

Defn: The quality of being voracious; voraciousness.

VORAGINOUS
Vo*rag"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. voraginosus, fr. vorago an abyss, fr.
vorare to swallow up.]

Defn: Pertaining to a gulf; full of gulfs; hence, devouring. [R.]
Mallet.

VORTEX
Vor"tex, n.; pl. E. Vortexes, L. Vortices. Etym: [L. vortex, vertex,
-icis, fr. vortere, vertere, to turn. See Vertex.]

1. A mass of fluid, especially of a liquid, having a whirling or
circular motion tending to form a cavity or vacuum in the center of
the circle, and to draw in towards the center bodies subject to its
action; the form assumed by a fluid in such motion; a whirlpool; an
eddy.

2. (Cartesian System)

Defn: A supposed collection of particles of very subtile matter,
endowed with a rapid rotary motion around an axis which was also the
axis of a sun or a planet. Descartes attempted to account for the
formation of the universe, and the movements of the bodies composing
it, by a theory of vortices.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small Turbellaria belonging to
Vortex and allied genera. See Illustration in Appendix. Vortex atom
(Chem.), a hypothetical ring-shaped mass of elementary matter in
continuous vortical motion. It is conveniently regarded in certain
mathematical speculations as the typical form and structure of the
chemical atom.
 -- Vortex wheel, a kind of turbine.

VORTEX FILAMENT
Vor"tex fil"a*ment.

Defn: A vortex tube of infinitesimal cross section.

VORTEX FRINGE
Vor"tex fringe.

Defn: The region immediately surrounding a disk moving flatwise
through air; -- so called because the air has a cyclic motion as in
vortex ring.

VORTEX LINE
Vortex line.

Defn: A line, within a rotating fluid, whose tangent at every point
is the instantaneous axis of rotation as that point of the fluid.

VORTEX RING
Vortex ring. (Physics)

Defn: A ring-shaped mass of moving fluid which, by virtue of its
motion of rotation around an axis disposed in circular form, attains
a more or less distinct separation from the surrounding medium and
has many of the properties of a solid.

VORTEX THEORY
Vortex theory. (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: The theory, advanced by Thomson (Lord Kelvin) on the basis of
investigation by Helmholtz, that the atoms are vortically moving
ring-shaped masses (or masses of other forms having a similar
internal motion) of a homogeneous, incompressible, frictionless
fluid. Various properties of such atoms (vortex atoms) can be
mathematically deduced.

VORTEX TUBE
Vortex tube. (Physics)

Defn: An imaginary tube within a rotating fluid, formed by drawing
the vortex lines through all points of a closed curve.

VORTICAL
Vor"ti*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a vortex or vortexes; resembling a vortex
in form or motion; whirling; as, a vortical motion.
 -- Vor"ti*cal*ly, adv.

VORTICEL
Vor"ti*cel, n. Etym: [Cf. F. vorticelle. See Vortex.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A vorticella.

VORTICELLA
Vor`ti*cel"la, n.; pl. E. Vorticellas (, L. Vorticellæ (. Etym: [NL.,
dim. fr. L. vortex. See Vortex.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to
Vorticella and many other genera of the family Vorticellidæ. They
have a more or less bell-shaped body with a circle of vibrating cilia
around the oral disk. Most of the species have slender, contractile
stems, either simple or branched.

VORTICOSE
Vor"ti*cose`, a. Etym: [L. vorticosus.]

Defn: Vortical; whirling; as, a vorticose motion.

VORTIGINOUS
Vor*tig"i*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. Vertiginous.]

Defn: Moving rapidly round a center; vortical. [R.] Cowper.

VOTARESS
Vo"ta*ress, n. Etym: [See Votary, n.]

Defn: A woman who is a votary. Shak.

VOTARIST
Vo"ta*rist, n. Etym: [See Votary.]

Defn: A votary.
Like a sad votarist in palmer's weed. Milton.

VOTARY
Vo"ta*ry, a. Etym: [From L. votus, p. p. vovere to vow, to devote.
See Vote, Vow.]

Defn: Consecrated by a vow or promise; consequent on a vow; devoted;
promised.
Votary resolution is made equipollent to custom. Bacon.

VOTARY
Vo"ta*ry, n.; pl. Votaries (.

Defn: One devoted, consecrated, or engaged by a vow or promise;
hence, especially, one devoted, given, or addicted, to some
particular service, worship, study, or state of life. "You are
already love's firm votary." Shak.
'T was coldness of the votary, not the prayer, that was in fault. Bp.
Fell.
But thou, my votary, weepest thou Emerson.

VOTE
Vote, n. Etym: [L. votum a vow, wish, will, fr. vovere, votum, to
vow: cf. F. vote. See Vow.]

1. An ardent wish or desire; a vow; a prayer. [Obs.] Massinger.

2. A wish, choice, or opinion, of a person or a body of persons,
expressed in some received and authorized way; the expression of a
wish, desire, will, preference, or choice, in regard to any measure
proposed, in which the person voting has an interest in common with
others, either in electing a person to office, or in passing laws,
rules, regulations, etc.; suffrage.

3. That by means of which will or preference is expressed in
elections, or in deciding propositions; voice; a ballot; a ticket;
as, a written vote.
The freeman casting with unpurchased hand The vote that shakes the
turrets of the land. Holmes.

4. Expression of judgment or will by a majority; legal decision by
some expression of the minds of a number; as, the vote was unanimous;
a vote of confidence.

5. Votes, collectively; as, the Tory vote; the labor vote. Casting
vote, Cumulative vote, etc. See under Casting, Cumulative, etc.

VOTE
Vote, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Voted; p. pr. & vb. n. Voting.] Etym: [Cf.
F. voter.]

Defn: To express or signify the mind, will, or preference, either
viva voce, or by ballot, or by other authorized means, as in electing
persons to office, in passing laws, regulations, etc., or in deciding
on any proposition in which one has an interest with others.
The vote for a duelist is to assist in the prostration of justice,
and, indirectly, to encourage the crime. L. Beecher.
To vote on large principles, to vote honestly, requires a great
amount of information. F. W. Robertson.

VOTE
Vote, v. t.

1. To choose by suffrage; to elecas, to vote a candidate into office.

2. To enact, establish, grant, determine, etc., by a formal vote; as,
the legislature voted the resolution.
Parliament voted them one hundred thousand pounds. Swift.

3. To declare by general opinion or common consent, as if by a vote;
as, he was voted a bore. [Colloq.]

4. To condemn; to devote; to doom. [Obs.] Glanvill.

VOTER
Vot"er, n.

Defn: One who votes; one who has a legal right to vote, or give his
suffrage; an elector; a suffragist; as, as, an independent voter.

VOTING
Vot"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Vote, v. Voting paper, a form of ballot containing
the names of more candidates than there are offices to be filled, the
voter making a mark against the preferred names. [Eng.]

VOTIST
Vot"ist, n.

Defn: One who makes a vow. [Obs.] Chapman.

VOTIVE
Vo"tive, a. Etym: [L. votivus, fr. votum a vow: cf. F. votif. See
Vow.]

Defn: Given by vow, or in fulfillment of a vow; consecrated by a vow;
devoted; as, votive offerings; a votive tablet. "Votive incense."
Keble.
We reached a votive stone, that bears the name Of Aloys Reding.
Wordsworth.
Embellishments of flowers and votive garlands. Motley.
Votive medal, a medal struck in grateful commemoration of some
auspicious event.
 -- Votive offering, an offering in fulfillment of a religious vow,
as of one's person or property.
 -- Vo"tive*ly, adv.
 -- Vo"tive*ness, n.

VOTRESS
Vo"tress, n.

Defn: A votaress. Dryden.

VOUCH
Vouch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Vouched; p. pr. & vb. n. Vouching.] Etym:
[OE. vouchen, OF. vochier to call, fr. L. vocare to call, fr. vox,
vocis, voice. See Voice, and cf. Avouch.]

1. To call; to summon. [Obs.]
[They] vouch (as I might say) to their aid the authority of the
writers. Sir T. Elyot.

2. To call upon to witness; to obtest.
Vouch the silent stars and conscious moon. Dryden.

3. To warrant; to maintain by affirmations; to attest; to affirm; to
avouch.
They made him ashamed to vouch the truth of the relation, and
afterwards to credit it. Atterbury.

4. To back; to support; to confirm; to establish.
Me damp horror chilled At such bold words vouched with a deed so
bold. Milton.

5. (Law)

Defn: To call into court to warrant and defend, or to make good a
warranty of title.
He vouches the tenant in tail, who vouches over the common vouchee.
Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- To obtest; declare; affirm; attest; warrant; confirm; asseverate;
aver; protest; assure.

VOUCH
Vouch, v. i.

1. To bear witness; to give testimony or full attestation.
He will not believe her until the elector of Hanover shall vouch for
the truth of what she has . . . affirmed. Swift.

2. To assert; to aver; to declare. Shak.

VOUCH
Vouch, n.

Defn: Warrant; attestation. [Obs.]
The vouch of very malice itself. Shak.

VOUCHEE
Vouch*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: The person who is vouched, or called into court to support or
make good his warranty of title in the process of common recovery.
Blackstone.

VOUCHER
Vouch"er, n.

1. One who vouches, or gives witness or full attestation, to
anything.
Will his vouchers vouch him no more Shak.
The great writers of that age stand up together as vouchers for one
another's reputation. Spectator.

2. A book, paper, or document which serves to vouch the truth of
accounts, or to confirm and establish facts of any kind; also, any
acquittance or receipt showing the payment of a debt; as, the
merchant's books are his vouchers for the correctness of his
accounts; notes, bonds, receipts, and other writings, are used as
vouchers in proving facts.

3. (Law)
(a) The act of calling in a person to make good his warranty of title
in the old form of action for the recovery of lands.
(b) The tenant in a writ of right; one who calls in another to
establish his warranty of title. In common recoveries, there may be a
single voucher or double vouchers. Blackstone.

VOUCHMENT
Vouch"ment, n.

Defn: A solemn assertion. [R.]

VOUCHOR
Vouchor, n. (Law)

Defn: Same as Voucher, 3 (b).

VOUCHSAFE
Vouch*safe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Vouchsafed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Vouchsafing.] Etym: [Vouch + safe, that is, to vouch or answer for
safety.]

1. To condescend to grant; to concede; to bestow.
If ye vouchsafe that it be so. Chaucer.
Shall I vouchsafe your worship a word or two Shak.
It is not said by the apostle that God vouchsafed to the heathens the
means of salvation. South.

2. To receive or accept in condescension. [Obs.] Shak.

VOUCHSAFE
Vouch*safe", v. i.

Defn: To condescend; to deign; to yield; to descend or stoop.
Chaucer.
Vouchsafe, O Lord, to keep us this day without sin. Bk. of Com.
Prayer.
Vouchsafe, illustrious Ormond, to behold What power the charms of
beauty had of old. Dryden.

VOUCHSAFEMENT
Vouch*safe"ment, n.

Defn: The act of vouchsafing, or that which is vouchsafed; a gift or
grant in condescension. Glanvill.

VOUSSOIR
Vous`soir", n. Etym: [F., akin to voûte an arch, a vault.] (Arch.)

Defn: One of the wedgelike stones of which an arch is composed.

VOW
Vow, n. Etym: [OE. vou, OF. vou, veu, vo, vu, F. v, from L. votum,
from vovere, to vow. Cf. Avow, Devout, Vote.]

1. A solemn promise made to God, or to some deity; an act by which
one consecrates or devotes himself, absolutely or conditionally,
wholly or in part, for a longer or shorter time, to some act,
service, or condition; a devotion of one's possessions; as, a
baptismal vow; a vow of poverty. "Nothing . . . that may . . . stain
my vow of Nazarite." Milton.
I pray thee, let me go and pay my vow. 2 Sam. xv. 7.
I am combined by a sacred vow. Shak.

2. Specifically, a promise of fidelity; a pledge of love or
affection; as, the marriage vow.
Knights of love, who never broke their vow; Firm to their plighted
faith. Dryden.

VOW
Vow, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Vowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Vowing.] Etym: [OE.
vouen, OF. vouer, voer, F. vouer, LL. votare. See Vow, n.]

1. To give, consecrate, or dedicate to God, or to some deity, by a
solemn promise; to devote; to promise solemnly. "When thou vowest a
vow unto God, defer not to pay it." Eccl. v. 4.
[Men] that vow a long and weary pilgrimage. Shak.

2. To assert solemnly; to asseverate.

VOW
Vow, v. i.

Defn: To make a vow, or solemn promise.
Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest
vow and not pay. Eccl. v. 5.

VOWEL
Vow"el, n. Etym: [F. voyelle, or an OF. form without y, L. vocalis
(sc. littera), from vocalis sounding, from vox, vocis, a voice,
sound. See Vocal.] (Phon.)

Defn: A vocal, or sometimes a whispered, sound modified by resonance
in the oral passage, the peculiar resonance in each case giving to
each several vowel its distinctive character or quality as a sound of
speech; -- distinguished from a consonant in that the latter, whether
made with or without vocality, derives its character in every case
from some kind of obstructive action by the mouth organs. Also, a
letter or character which represents such a sound. See Guide to
Pronunciation, §§ 5, 146-149.

Note: In the English language, the written vowels are a, e, i, o, u,
and sometimes w and y. The spoken vowels are much more numerous.
Close vowel. See under Close, a.
 -- Vowel point. See under Point, n.

VOWEL
Vow"el, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a vowel; vocal.

VOWELED
Vow"eled, a.

Defn: Furnished with vowels. [Written also vowelled.] Dryden.

VOWELISH
Vow"el*ish, a.

Defn: Of the nature of a vowel. [R.] "The power [of w] is always
vowelish." B. Jonson.

VOWELISM
Vow"el*ism, n.

Defn: The use of vowels. [R.]

VOWELIZE
Vow"el*ize, v. t.

Defn: To give the quality, sound, or office of a vowel to.

VOWER
Vow"er, n.

Defn: One who makes a vow. Bale.

VOW-FELLOW
Vow"-fel`low, n.

Defn: One bound by the same vow as another. [R.] Shak.

VOX
Vox, n. Etym: [L. See Voice.]

Defn: A voice. Vox humana ( Etym: [L., human voice] (Mus.), a reed
stop in an organ, made to imitate the human voice.

VOX ANGELICA
Vox` an*gel"i*ca. [L. angelica angelic.] (Music)

Defn: An organ stop of delicate stringlike quality, having for each
finger key a pair of pipes, of which one is tuned slightly sharp to
give a wavy effect to their joint tone.

VOYAGE
Voy"age (; 48), n. Etym: [OE. veage, viage, OF. veage, viage, veiage,
voiage, F. voyage, LL. viaticum, fr. L. viaticum traveling money,
provision for a journey, from viaticus belonging to a road or
journey, fr. via way, akin to E. way. See Way, n., and cf. Convey,
Deviate, Devious, Envoy, Trivial, Viaduct, Viaticum.]

1. Formerly, a passage either by sea or land; a journey, in general;
but not chiefly limited to a passing by sea or water from one place,
port, or country, to another; especially, a passing or journey by
water to a distant place or country.
I love a sea voyage and a blustering tempest. J. Fletcher.
So steers the prudent crane Her annual voyage, borne on winds.
Milton.
All the voyage of their life Is bound in shallows and in miseries.
Shak.

2. The act or practice of traveling. [Obs.]
Nations have interknowledge of one another by voyage into foreign
parts, or strangers that come to them. Bacon.

3. Course; way. [Obs.] Shak.

VOYAGE
Voy"age, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Voyaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Voyaging.]
Etym: [Cf. F. voyager.]

Defn: To take a voyage; especially, to sail or pass by water.
A mind forever Voyaging through strange seas of thought alone.
Wordsworth.

VOYAGE
Voy"age, v. t.

Defn: To travel; to pass over; to traverse.
With what pain [I] voyaged the unreal, vast, unbounded deep. Milton.

VOYAGEABLE
Voy"age*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. voyageable.]

Defn: That may be sailed over, as water or air; navigable.

VOYAGER
Voy"a*ger, n. Etym: [Cf. F. voyager traveling.]

Defn: One who voyages; one who sails or passes by sea or water.

VOYAGEUR
Voy`a`geur", n. Etym: [F., fr. voyager to travel. See Voyage.]

Defn: A traveler; -- applied in Canada to a man employed by the fur
companies in transporting goods by the rivers and across the land, to
and from the remote stations in the Northwest.

VOYOL
Voy"ol, n. (Naut.)
(a) See Viol, 2.
(b) The block through which a messenger passes. [Written also viol,
and voyal.]

VRAISEMBLANCE
Vrai`sem`blance", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The appearance of truth; verisimilitude.

VUGG; VUGH
Vugg, Vugh, n. (Mining)

Defn: A cavity in a lode; -- called also vogle.

VULCAN
Vul"can, n. Etym: [L. Vulcanus, Volcanus: cf. Skr. ulka a firebrand,
meteor. Cf. Volcano.] (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: The god of fire, who presided over the working of metals; --
answering to the Greek Hephæstus.

VULCANIAN
Vul*ca"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Vulcanius.]

1. Of or pertaining to Vulcan; made by Vulcan; hence, of or
pertaining to works in iron or other metals.
Ingenious allusions to the Vulcanian panoply which Achilles lent to
his feebler friend. Macaulay.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Volcanic.

VULCANIC
Vul*can"ic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to Vulcan; made by Vulcan; Vulcanian.

2. Of or pertaining to volcanoes; specifically, relating to the
geological theory of the Vulcanists, or Plutonists.

VULCANICITY
Vul`can*ic"i*ty, n.

Defn: Volcanicity.

VULCANISM
Vul"can*ism, n.

Defn: Volcanism.

VULCANIST
Vul"can*ist, n.

Defn: A volcanist.

VULCANITE
Vul"can*ite, n.

Defn: Hard rubber produced by vulcanizing with a large proportion of
sulphur.

VULCANIZATION
Vul`can*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [See Vulcan.]

Defn: The act or process of imparting to caoutchouc, gutta-percha, or
the like, greater elasticity, durability, or hardness by heating with
sulphur under pressure.

VULCANIZE
Vul"can*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Vulcanized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Vulcanizing.]

Defn: To change the properties of, as caoutchouc, or India rubber, by
the process of vulcanization. Vulcanized fiber, paper, paper pulp, or
other fiber, chemically treated, as with metallic chlorides, so as to
form a substance resembling ebonite in texture, hardness, etc.
Knight.
 -- Vulcanized rubber, India rubber, vulcanized.

VULCANIZER
Vul"can*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, vulcanizes; esp., an apparatus for
vulcanizing caoutchouc.

VULCANO
Vul*ca"no, n.

Defn: A volcano. [Obs.]

VULCANOLOGY
Vul`can*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [See Vulcan, and -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of phenomena due to plutonic action,
as in volcanoes, hot springs, etc. [R.]

VULCAN POWDER
Vul"can pow"der.

Defn: A dynamite composed of nitroglycerin (30 parts), sodium nitrate
(52.5), charcoal (10.5), and sulphur (7), used in mining and
blasting.

VULGAR
Vul"gar, a. Etym: [L. vulgaris, from vulgus the multitude, the common
people; of uncertain origin: cf. F. vulgaire. Cf. Divulge.]

1. Of or pertaining to the mass, or multitude, of people; common;
general; ordinary; public; hence, in general use; vernacular. "As
common as any the most vulgar thing to sense. " Shak.
Things vulgar, and well-weighed, scarce worth the praise. Milton.
It might be more useful to the English reader . . . to write in our
vulgar language. Bp. Fell.
The mechanical process of multiplying books had brought the New
Testament in the vulgar tongue within the reach of every class.
Bancroft.

2. Belonging or relating to the common people, as distinguished from
the cultivated or educated; pertaining to common life; plebeian; not
select or distinguished; hence, sometimes, of little or no value.
"Like the vulgar sort of market men." Shak.
Men who have passed all their time in low and vulgar life. Addison.
In reading an account of a battle, we follow the hero with our whole
attention, but seldom reflect on the vulgar heaps of slaughter.
Rambler.

3. Hence, lacking cultivation or refinement; rustic; boorish; also,
offensive to good taste or refined feelings; low; coarse; mean; base;
as, vulgar men, minds, language, or manners.
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar. Shak.
Vulgar fraction. (Arith.) See under Fraction.

VULGAR
Vul"gar, n. Etym: [Cf. F. vulgaire.]

1. One of the common people; a vulgar person. [Obs.]
These vile vulgars are extremely proud. Chapman.

2. The vernacular, or common language. [Obs.]

VULGARIAN
Vul*ga"ri*an, n.

Defn: A vulgar person; one who has vulgar ideas. Used also
adjectively.

VULGARISM
Vul"gar*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. vulgarisme.]

1. Grossness; rudeness; vulgarity.

2. A vulgar phrase or expression.
A fastidious taste will find offense in the occasional vulgarisms, or
what we now call "slang," which not a few of our writers seem to have
affected. Coleridge.

VULGARITY
Vul*gar"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. vulgarité, L. vulgaritas the
multitude.]

1. The quality or state of being vulgar; mean condition of life; the
state of the lower classes of society. Sir T. Browne.

2. Grossness or clownishness of manners of language; absence of
refinement; coarseness.
The reprobate vulgarity of the frequenters of Bartholomew Fair. B.
Jonson.

VULGARIZATION
Vul`gar*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of making vulgar, or common.

VULGARIZE
Vul"gar*ize, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Vulgarized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Vulgarizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. vulgariser, LL. vulgarizare.]

Defn: To make vulgar, or common.
Exhortation vulgarized by low wit. V. Knox.

VULGARLY
Vul"gar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a vulgar manner.

VULGARNESS
Vul"gar*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being vulgar.

VULGATE
Vul"gate, n. Etym: [NL. vulgata, from L. vulgatus usual, common, p.
p. of vulgare to make general, or common, fr. vulgus the multitude:
cf. F. vulgate. See Vulgar, a.]

Defn: An ancient Latin version of the Scripture, and the only version
which the Roman Church admits to be authentic; -- so called from its
common use in the Latin Church.

Note: The Vulgate was made by Jerome at the close of the 4th century.
The Old Testament he translated mostly from the Hebrew and Chaldaic,
and the New Testament he revised from an older Latin version. The
Douay version, so called, is an English translation from the Vulgate.
See Douay Bible.

VULGATE
Vul"gate, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Vulgate, or the old Latin version of
the Scriptures.

VULNERABILITY
Vul`ner*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being vulnerable; vulnerableness.

VULNERABLE
Vul"ner*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. vulnerabilis wounding, injurious, from
vulnerare to wound, vulnus a wound; akin to Skr. vra: cf. F.
vulnérable.]

1. Capable of being wounded; susceptible of wounds or external
injuries; as, a vulnerable body.
Achilles was vulnerable in his heel; and there will be wanting a
Paris to infix the dart. Dr. T. Dwight.

2. Liable to injury; subject to be affected injuriously; assailable;
as, a vulnerable reputation.
His skill in finding out the vulnerable parts of strong minds was
consummate. Macaulay.

VULNERABLENESS
Vul"ner*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being vulnerable; vulnerability.

VULNERARY
Vul"ner*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. vulnearius: cf. F. vulnéraire.]

Defn: Useful in healing wounds; adapted to the cure of external
injuries; as, vulnerary plants or potions. "Such vulnerary remedies."
Sir W. Scott.
 -- n. Etym: [Cf. F. vulnéraire.] (Med.)

Defn: A vulnerary remedy.

VULNERATE
Vul"ner*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. vulneratus, p. p. of vulnerare to
wound.]

Defn: To wound; to hurt. [Obs.]

VULNERATION
Vul`ner*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. vulneratio.]

Defn: The act of wounding, or the state of being wounded. [Obs.]

VULNEROSE
Vul"ner*ose`, a.

Defn: Full of wounds; wounded.

VULNIFIC; VULNIFICAL
Vul*nif"ic, Vul*nif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. vulnificus; vulnus a wound +
facere to make.]

Defn: Causing wounds; inflicting wounds; wounding.

VULNOSE
Vul*nose", a.

Defn: Having wounds; vulnerose. [R.]

VULPES
Vul"pes, n. Etym: [L., a fox.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Carnivora including the foxes.

VULPIC
Vul"pic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained
from a lichen (Cetraria vulpina) as a yellow or red crystalline
substance which on decomposition yields pulvinic acid.

VULPICIDE
Vul"pi*cide, n. Etym: [L. vulpes a fox + caedere to kill.]

Defn: One who kills a fox, except in hunting; also, the act of so
killing a fox. [Written also vulpecide.]

VULPINE
Vul"pine, a. Etym: [L. vulpinus, from vulpes a fox.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the fox; resembling the fox; foxy; cunning;
crafty; artful. Vulpine phalangist (Zoöl.), an Australian carnivorous
marsupial (Phalangista, or Trichosurus, vulpina); -- called also
vulpine phalanger, and vulpine opossum.

VULPINIC
Vul*pin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Vulpic.

VULPINISM
Vul"pin*ism, n.

Defn: The quality of being cunning like the fox; craft; artfulness.
[R.]
He was without guile, and had no vulpinism at all. Carlyle.

VULPINITE
Vul"pi*nite, n. Etym: [So called after Vulpino, in Italy.] (Min.)

Defn: A scaly granular variety of anhydrite of a grayish white color,
used for ornamental purposes.

VULTERN
Vul"tern, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The brush turkey (Talegallus Lathami) of Australia. See Brush
turkey.

VULTURE
Vul"ture, n. Etym: [OE. vultur, L. vultur: cf. OF. voltour, F.
vautour.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of rapacious birds belonging to
Vultur, Cathartes, Catharista, and various other genera of the family
Vulturidæ.

Note: In most of the species the head and neck are naked or nearly
so. They feed chiefly on carrion. The condor, king vulture, turkey
buzzard, and black vulture (Catharista atrata) are well known
American species. The griffin, lammergeir, and Pharaoh's chicken, or
Egyptian vulture, are common Old World vultures.

VULTURINE
Vul"tur*ine, a. Etym: [L. vulturinus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a vulture; resembling a vulture in
qualities or looks; as, the vulturine sea eagle (Gypohierax
Angolensis); vulturine rapacity.
The vulturine nose, which smells nothing but corruption, is no credit
to its possessor. C. Kingsley.

VULTURISH
Vul"tur*ish, a.

Defn: Vulturous.

VULTURISM
Vul"tur*ism, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being like a vulture; rapaciousness.

VULTUROUS
Vul"tur*ous, a.

Defn: Like a vulture; rapacious.

VULVA
Vul"va, n. Etym: [L. vulva, volva, from volvere to roll.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The external parts of the female genital organs; sometimes, the
opening between the projecting parts of the external organs.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The orifice of the oviduct of an insect or other invertebrate.

VULVIFORM
Vul"vi*form, a. Etym: [L. vulva, volva, a wrapper + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Like a cleft with projecting edges.

VULVITIS
Vul*vi"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Vulva, and -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the vulva.

VULVO-UTERINE
Vul`vo-u"ter*ine, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining both to the vulva and the uterus.

VULVOVAGINAL
Vul`vo*vag"i*nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining both to the vulva and the vagina.

VYCE
Vyce, n. Etym: [Cf. Vise.] (Coopering)

Defn: A kind of clamp with gimlet points for holding a barrel head
while the staves are being closed around it. Knight.

VYING
Vy"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Vie.
 -- Vy"ing*ly, adv.

W

Defn: W, the twenty-third letter of the English alphabet, is usually
a consonant, but sometimes it is a vowel, forming the second element
of certain diphthongs, as in few, how. It takes its written form and
its name from the repetition of a V, this being the original form of
the Roman capital letter which we call U. Etymologically it is most
related to v and u. See V, and U. Some of the uneducated classes in
England, especially in London, confuse w and v, substituting the one
for the other, as weal for veal, and veal for weal; wine for vine,
and vine for wine, etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 266-268.

WAAG
Waag, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The grivet.

WAAHOO
Waa*hoo", n. (Bot.)

Defn: The burning bush; -- said to be called after a quack medicine
made from it.

WABBLE
Wab"ble, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Prov. G. wabbeln to wabble, and E. whap.
Cf. Quaver.]

Defn: To move staggeringly or unsteadily from one side to the other;
to vacillate; to move the manner of a rotating disk when the axis of
rotation is inclined to that of the disk; -- said of a turning or
whirling body; as, a top wabbles; a buzz saw wabbles. wobble.

WABBLE
Wab"ble, n.

Defn: A hobbling, unequal motion, as of a wheel unevenly hung; a
staggering to and fro.

WABBLY
Wab"bly, a.

Defn: Inclined to wabble; wabbling.

WACKE; WACKY
Wack"e, Wack"y, n. Etym: [G. wacke, MHG.wacke a large stone, OHG.
waggo a pebble.] (Geol.)

Defn: A soft, earthy, dark-colored rock or clay derived from the
alteration of basalt.

WAD
Wad, n. Etym: [See Woad.]

Defn: Woad. [Obs.]

WAD
Wad, n. Etym: [Probably of Scand. origin; cf. Sw. vadd wadding, Dan
vat, D. & G. watte. Cf. Wadmol.]

1. A little mass, tuft, or bundle, as of hay or tow. Holland.

2. Specifically: A little mass of some soft or flexible material,
such as hay, straw, tow, paper, or old rope yarn, used for retaining
a charge of powder in a gun, or for keeping the powder and shot
close; also, to diminish or avoid the effects of windage. Also, by
extension, a dusk of felt, pasteboard, etc., serving a similar
purpose.

3. A soft mass, especially of some loose, fibrous substance, used for
various purposes, as for stopping an aperture, padding a garment,
etc. Wed hook, a rod with a screw or hook at the end, used for
removing the wad from a gun.

WAD
Wad, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Waded; p. pr. & vb. n. Wadding.]

1. To form into a mass, or wad, or into wadding; as, to wad tow or
cotton.

2. To insert or crowd a wad into; as, to wad a gun; also, to stuff or
line with some soft substance, or wadding, like cotton; as, to wad a
cloak.

WAD; WADD
Wad, Wadd, n. (Min.)
(a) An earthy oxide of manganese, or mixture of different oxides and
water, with some oxide of iron, and often silica, alumina, lime, or
baryta; black ocher. There are several varieties.
(b) Plumbago, or black lead.

WADDIE
Wad"die, n. & v.

Defn: See Waddy.

WADDING
Wad"ding, n. Etym: [See Wad a little mass.]

1. A wad, or the materials for wads; any pliable substance of which
wads may be made.

2. Any soft stuff of loose texture, used for stuffing or padding
garments; esp., sheets of carded cotton prepared for the purpose.

WADDLE
Wad"dle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Waddled; p. pr. & vb. n. Waddling.]
Etym: [Freq. of wade; cf. AS. wædlian to beg, from wadan to go. See
Wade.]

Defn: To walk with short steps, swaying the body from one side to the
other, like a duck or very fat person; to move clumsily and
totteringly along; to toddle; to stumble; as, a child waddles when he
begins to walk; a goose waddles. Shak.
She drawls her words, and waddles in her pace. Young.

WADDLE
Wad"dle, v. t.

Defn: To trample or tread down, as high grass, by walking through it.
[R.] Drayton.

WADDLER
Wad"dler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, waddles.

WADDLINGLY
Wad"dling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a waddling manner.

WADDY
Wad"dy, n.; pl. Waddies. [Written also waddie, whaddie.] [Native
name. Thought by some to be a corrup. of E. wood.] [Australia]

1. An aboriginal war club.

2.  A piece of wood; stick; peg; also, a walking stick.

WADDY
Wad"dy, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Waddied; p. pr. & vb. n. Waddying.]

Defn: To attack or beat with a waddy.

WADDYWOOD
Wad"dy*wood`, n.

Defn: An Australian tree (Pittosporum bicolor); also, its wood, used
in making waddies.

WADE
Wade, n.

Defn: Woad. [Obs.] Mortimer.

WADE
Wade, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Waded; p. pr. & vb. n. Wading.] Etym: [OE.
waden to wade, to go, AS. wadan; akin to OFries. wada, D. waden, OHG.
watan, Icel. va, Sw. vada, Dan. vade, L. vadere to go, walk, vadum a
ford. Cf. Evade, Invade, Pervade, Waddle.]

1. To go; to move forward. [Obs.]
When might is joined unto cruelty, Alas, too deep will the venom
wade. Chaucer.
Forbear, and wade no further in this speech. Old Play.

2. To walk in a substance that yields to the feet; to move, sinking
at each step, as in water, mud, sand, etc.
So eagerly the fiend . . . With head, hands, wings, or feet, pursues
his way, And swims, or sinks, or wades, or creeps, or flies. Milton.

3. Hence, to move with difficulty or labor; to proceed as, to wade
through a dull book.
And wades through fumes, and gropes his way. Dryden.
The king's admirable conduct has waded through all these
difficulties. Davenant.

WADE
Wade, v. t.

Defn: To pass or cross by wading; as, he waded .

WADE
Wade, n.

Defn: The act of wading. [Colloq.]

WADER
Wad"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, wades.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any long-legged bird that wades in the water in search of food,
especially any species of limicoline or grallatorial birds; -- called
also wading bird. See Illust. g, under Aves.

WADING
Wad"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Wade, v. Wading bird. (Zoöl.) See Wader, 2.

WADMOL
Wad"mol, n. Etym: [Of Scand. origin; cf. Icel.va a woollen stuff, Dan
vadmel. Cf. Wad a small mass, and Woodmeil.]

Defn: A coarse, hairy, woolen cloth, formerly used for garments by
the poor, and for various other purposes. [Spelled also wadmal,
wadmeal, wadmoll, wadmel, etc.] Beck (Draper's Dict.). Sir W. Scott.

WADSET
Wad"set, n. Etym: [Scot. wad a pledge; akin to Sw. vad a wager. See
Wed.] (Scots Law)

Defn: A kind of pledge or mortgage. [Written also wadsett.]

WADSETTER
Wad"set*ter, n.

Defn: One who holds by a wadset.

WADY
Wad"y, n.; pl. Wadies. Etym: [Ar. wadi a valley, a channel of a
river, a river.]

Defn: A ravine through which a brook flows; the channel of a water
course, which is dry except in the rainy season.

WAE
Wae, n.

Defn: A wave. [Obs.] Spenser.

WAEG
Waeg, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The kittiwake. [Scot.]

WAFER
Wa"fer, n. Etym: [OE. wafre, OF. waufre, qaufre, F. qaufre; of
Teutonic origin; cf. LG. & D. wafel, G. waffel, Dan. vaffel, Sw.
våffla; all akin to G. wabe a honeycomb, OHG. waba, being named from
the resemblance to a honeycomb. G. wabe is probably akin to E. weave.
See Weave, and cf. Waffle, Gauffer.]

1. (Cookery)

Defn: A thin cake made of flour and other ingredients.
Wafers piping hot out of the gleed. Chaucer.
The curious work in pastry, the fine cakes, wafers, and marchpanes.
Holland.
A woman's oaths are wafers -- break with making B. Jonson.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A thin cake or piece of bread (commonly unleavened, circular,
and stamped with a crucifix or with the sacred monogram) used in the
Eucharist, as in the Roman Catholic Church.

3. An adhesive disk of dried paste, made of flour, gelatin,
isinglass, or the like, and coloring matter, -- used in sealing
letters and other documents. Wafer cake, a sweet, thin cake. Shak.
 -- Wafer irons, or Wafer tongs (Cookery), a pincher-shaped
contrivance, having flat plates, or blades, between which wafers are
baked.
 -- Wafer woman, a woman who sold wafer cakes; also, one employed in
amorous intrigues. Beau. & Fl.

WAFER
Wa"fer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wafered; p. pr. & vb. n. Wafering.]

Defn: To seal or close with a wafer.

WAFERER
Wa"fer*er, n.

Defn: A dealer in the cakes called wafers; a confectioner. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

WAFFLE
Waffle, n. Etym: [D. wafel. See Wafer.]

1. A thin cake baked and then rolled; a wafer.

2. A soft indented cake cooked in a waffle iron. Waffle iron, an iron
utensil or mold made in two parts shutting together, -- used for
cooking waffles over a fire.

WAFT
Waft, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wafted; p. pr. & vb. n. Wafting.] Etym:
[Prob. originally imp. & p. p. of wave, v. t. See Wave to waver.]

1. To give notice to by waving something; to wave the hand to; to
beckon. [Obs.]
But soft: who wafts us yonder Shak.

2. To cause to move or go in a wavy manner, or by the impulse of
waves, as of water or air; to bear along on a buoyant medium; as, a
balloon was wafted over the channel.
A gentle wafting to immortal life. Milton.
Speed the soft intercourse from soul to soul, And waft a sigh from
Indus to the pole. Pope.

3. To cause to float; to keep from sinking; to buoy. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

Note: This verb is regular; but waft was formerly somwafted.

WAFT
Waft, v. i.

Defn: To be moved, or to pass, on a buoyant medium; to float.
And now the shouts waft near the citadel. Dryden.

WAFT
Waft, n.

1. A wave or current of wind. "Everywaft of the air." Longfellow.
In this dire season, oft the whirlwind's wing Sweeps up the burden of
whole wintry plains In one wide waft. Thomson.

2. A signal made by waving something, as a flag, in the air.

3. An unpleasant flavor. [Obs.]

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A knot, or stop, in the middle of a flag. [Written also wheft.]

Note: A flag with a waft in it, when hoisted at the staff, or half
way to the gaff, means, a man overboard; at the peak, a desire to
communicate; at the masthead, "Recall boats."

WAFTAGE
Waft"age, n.

Defn: Conveyance on a buoyant medium, as air or water. Shak.
Boats prepared for waftage to and fro. Drayton.

WAFTER
Waft"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, wafts.
O Charon, Thou wafter of the soul to bliss or bane. Beau. & FL.

2. A boat for passage. Ainsworth.

WAFTURE
Waf"ture, n.

Defn: The act of waving; a wavelike motion; a waft. R. Browning.
An angry wafture of your hand. Shak.

WAG
Wag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Wagging.] Etym: [OE.
waggen; probably of Scand. origin; cf. Sw. vagga to rock a cradle,
vagga cradle, Icel. vagga, Dan. vugge; akin to AS. wagian to move,
wag, wegan to bear, carry, G. & D. bewegen to move, and E. weigh.
*136. See Weigh.]

Defn: To move one way and the other with quick turns; to shake to and
fro; to move vibratingly; to cause to vibrate, as a part of the body;
as, to wag the head.
No discerner durst wag his tongue in censure. Shak.
Every one that passeth thereby shall be astonished, and wag his head.
Jer. xviii. 16.

Note: Wag expresses specifically the motion of the head and body used
in buffoonery, mirth, derision, sport, and mockery.

WAG
Wag, v. i.

1. To move one way and the other; to be shaken to and fro; to
vibrate.
The resty sieve wagged ne'er the more. Dryden.

2. To be in action or motion; to move; to get along; to progress; to
stir. [Colloq.]
"Thus we may see," quoth he, "how the world wags." Shak.

3. To go; to depart; to pack oft. [R.]
I will provoke him to 't, or let him wag. Shak.

WAG
Wag, n. Etym: [From Wag, v.]

1. The act of wagging; a shake; as, a wag of the head. [Colloq.]

2. Etym: [Perhaps shortened from wag-halter a rogue.]

Defn: A man full of sport and humor; a ludicrous fellow; a humorist;
a wit; a joker.
We wink at wags when they offend. Dryden.
A counselor never pleaded without a piece of pack thread in his hand,
which he used to twist about a finger all the while he was speaking;
the wags used to call it the thread of his discourse. Addison.

WAGATI
Wa*ga"ti, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small East Indian wild cat (Felis wagati), regarded by some
as a variety of the leopard cat.

WAGE
Wage, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Waged; p. pr. & vb. n. Waging.] Etym: [OE.
wagen, OF. wagier, gagier, to pledge, promise, F. gager to wager,
lay, bet, fr. LL. wadium a pledge; of Teutonic origin; cf. Goth. wadi
a pledge, gawadjon to pledge, akin to E. wed, G. wette a wager. See
Wed, and cf. Gage.]

1. To pledge; to hazard on the event of a contest; to stake; to bet,
to lay; to wager; as, to wage a dollar. Hakluyt.
My life I never but as a pawn To wage against thy enemies. Shak.

2. To expose one's self to, as a risk; to incur, as a danger; to
venture; to hazard. "Too weak to wage an instant trial with the
king." Shak.
To wake and wage a danger profitless. Shak.

3. To engage in, as a contest, as if by previous gage or pledge; to
carry on, as a war.
[He pondered] which of all his sons was fit To reign and wage
immortal war with wit. Dryden.
The two are waging war, and the one triumphs by the destruction of
the other. I. Taylor.

4. To adventure, or lay out, for hire or reward; to hire out. [Obs.]
"Thou . . . must wage thy works for wealth." Spenser.

5. To put upon wages; to hire; to employ; to pay wages to. [Obs.]
Abundance of treasure which he had in store, wherewith he might wage
soldiers. Holinshed.
I would have them waged for their labor. Latimer.

6. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: To give security for the performance of. Burrill. To wage
battle (O. Eng. Law), to give gage, or security, for joining in the
duellum, or combat. See Wager of battel, under Wager, n. Burrill.
 -- To wage one's law (Law), to give security to make one's law. See
Wager of law, under Wager, n.

WAGE
Wage, v. i.

Defn: To bind one's self; to engage. [Obs.]

WAGE
Wage, n. Etym: [OF. wage, gage, guarantee, engagement. See Wage, v.
t. ]

1. That which is staked or ventured; that for which one incurs risk
or danger; prize; gage. [Obs.] "That warlike wage." Spenser.

2. That for which one labors; meed; reward; stipulated payment for
service performed; hire; pay; compensation; -- at present generally
used in the plural. See Wages. "My day's wage." Sir W. Scott. "At
least I earned my wage." Thackeray. "Pay them a wage in advance." J.
Morley. "The wages of virtue." Tennyson.
By Tom Thumb, a fairy page, He sent it, and doth him engage, By
promise of a mighty wage, It secretly to carry. Drayton.
Our praises are our wages. Shak.
Existing legislation on the subject of wages. Encyc. Brit.

Note: Wage is used adjectively and as the first part of compounds
which are usually self-explaining; as, wage worker, or wage-worker;
wage-earner, etc. Board wages. See under 1st Board.

Syn.
 -- Hire; reward; stipend; salary; allowance; pay; compensation;
remuneration; fruit.

WAGEL
Wag"el, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Waggel.

WAGENBOOM
Wa"gen*boom`, n. Etym: [D., literally, wagon tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A south African proteaceous tree (Protea grandiflora); also,
its tough wood, used for making wagon wheels.

WAGER
Wa"ger, n. Etym: [OE. wager, wajour, OF. wagiere, or wageure, E.
gageure. See Wage, v. t.]

1. Something deposited, laid, or hazarded on the event of a contest
or an unsettled question; a bet; a stake; a pledge.
Besides these plates for horse races, the wagers may be as the
persons please. Sir W. Temple.
If any atheist can stake his soul for a wager against such an
inexhaustible disproportion, let him never hereafter accuse others of
credulity. Bentley.

2. (Law)

Defn: A contract by which two parties or more agree that a certain
sum of money, or other thing, shall be paid or delivered to one of
them, on the happening or not happening of an uncertain event.
Bouvier.

Note: At common law a wager is considered as a legal contract which
the courts must enforce unless it be on a subject contrary to public
policy, or immoral, or tending to the detriment of the public, or
affecting the interest, feelings, or character of a third person. In
many of the United States an action can not be sustained upon any
wager or bet. Chitty. Bouvier.

3. That on which bets are laid; the subject of a bet. Wager of
battel, or Wager of battle (O. Eng. Law), the giving of gage, or
pledge, for trying a cause by single combat, formerly allowed in
military, criminal, and civil causes. In writs of right, where the
trial was by champions, the tenant produced his champion, who, by
throwing down his glove as a gage, thus waged, or stipulated, battle
with the champion of the demandant, who, by taking up the glove,
accepted the challenge. The wager of battel, which has been long in
disuse, was abolished in England in 1819, by a statute passed in
consequence of a defendant's having waged his battle in a case which
arose about that period. See Battel.
 -- Wager of law (Law), the giving of gage, or sureties, by a
defendant in an action of debt, that at a certain day assigned he
would take a law, or oath, in open court, that he did not owe the
debt, and at the same time bring with him eleven neighbors (called
compurgators), who should avow upon their oaths that they believed in
their consciences that he spoke the truth.
 -- Wager policy. (Insurance Law) See under Policy.

WAGER
Wa"ger, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wagered; p. pr. & vb. n. Wagering.]

Defn: To hazard on the issue of a contest, or on some question that
is to be decided, or on some casualty; to lay; to stake; to bet.
And wagered with him Pieces of gold 'gainst this which he wore. Shak.

WAGER
Wa"ger, v. i.

Defn: To make a bet; to lay a wager.
'T was merry when You wagered on your angling. Shak.

WAGERER
Wa"ger*er, n.

Defn: One who wagers, or lays a bet.

WAGERING
Wa"ger*ing, a.

Defn: Hazarding; pertaining to the act of one who wagers. Wagering
policy. (Com.) See Wager policy, under Policy.

WAGES
Wa"ges, n. plural in termination, but singular in signification.
Etym: [Plural of wage; cf. F. gages, pl., wages, hire. See Wage, n.]

Defn: A compensation given to a hired person for services; price paid
for labor; recompense; hire. See Wage, n., 2.
The wages of sin is death. Rom. vi. 23.
Wages fund (Polit. Econ.), the aggregate capital existing at any time
in any country, which theoretically is unconditionally destined to be
paid out in wages. It was formerly held, by Mill and other political
economists, that the average rate of wages in any country at any time
depended upon the relation of the wages fund to the number of
laborers. This theory has been greatly modified by the discovery of
other conditions affecting wages, which it does not take into
account. Encyc. Brit.

Syn.
 -- See under Wage, n.

WAGGEL
Wag"gel, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The young of the great black-backed gull (Larus marinus),
formerly considered a distinct species. [Prov. Eng.]

WAGGERY
Wag"ger*y, n.; pl. Waggeries. Etym: [From Wag.]

Defn: The manner or action of a wag; mischievous merriment; sportive
trick or gayety; good-humored sarcasm; pleasantry; jocularity; as,
the waggery of a schoolboy. Locke.
A drollery and lurking waggery of expression. W. Irving.

WAGGIE
Wag"gie, n.

Defn: The pied wagtail. [Prov. Eng.]

WAGGISH
Wag"gish, a.

1. Like a wag; mischievous in sport; roguish in merriment or good
humor; frolicsome. "A company of waggish boys." L'Estrange.

2. Done, made, or laid in waggery or for sport; sportive; humorous;
as, a waggish trick.
 -- Wag"gish*ly, adv.
 -- Wag"gish*ness, n.

WAGGLE
Wag"gle, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of wag; cf. D. waggelen, G. wackeln.]

Defn: To reel, sway, or move from side to side; to move with a
wagging motion; to waddle.
Why do you go nodding and waggling so L'Estrange.

WAGGLE
Wag"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Waggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Waggling.]

Defn: To move frequently one way and the other; to wag; as, a bird
waggles his tail.

WAG-HALTER
Wag"-hal`ter, n. Etym: [Wag + halter.]

Defn: One who moves or wears a halter; one likely to be hanged.
[Colloq. & Obs.]
I can tell you, I am a mad wag-halter. Marston.

WAGNERIAN
Wag*ne"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling the style of, Richard Wagner,
the German musical composer.

WAGNERITE
Wag"ner*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A fluophosphate of magnesia, occurring in yellowish crystals,
and also in massive forms.

WAGON
Wag"on, n. Etym: [D. wagen. sq. root136. See Wain.]

1. A wheeled carriage; a vehicle on four wheels, and usually drawn by
horses; especially, one used for carrying freight or merchandise.

Note: In the United States, light wagons are used for the conveyance
of persons and light commodities.

2. A freight car on a railway. [Eng.]

3. A chariot [Obs.] Spenser.

4. (Astron.)

Defn: The Dipper, or Charles's Wain.

Note: This word and its compounds are often written with two g's
(waggon, waggonage, etc.), chiefly in England. The forms wagon,
wagonage, etc., are, however, etymologically preferable, and in the
United States are almost universally used. Wagon boiler. See the Note
under Boiler, 3.
 -- Wagon ceiling (Arch.), a semicircular, or wagon-headed, arch or
ceiling; -- sometimes used also of a ceiling whose section is
polygonal instead of semicircular.
 -- Wagon master, an officer or person in charge of one or more
wagons, especially of those used for transporting freight, as the
supplies of an army, and the like.
 -- Wagon shoe, a skid, or shoe, for retarding the motion of a wagon
wheel; a drag.
 -- Wagon vault. (Arch.) See under 1st Vault.

WAGON
Wag"on, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wagoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Wagoning.]

Defn: To transport in a wagon or wagons; as, goods are wagoned from
city to city.

WAGON
Wag"on, v. i.

Defn: To wagon goods as a business; as, the man wagons between
Philadelphia and its suburbs.

WAGONAGE
Wag"on*age, n.

1. Money paid for carriage or conveyance in wagon.

2. A collection of wagons; wagons, collectively.
Wagonage, provender, and a piece or two of cannon. Carlyle.

WAGONER
Wag"on*er, n.

1. One who conducts a wagon; one whose business it is to drive a
wagon.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The constellation Charles's Wain, or Ursa Major. See Ursa
major, under Ursa.

WAGONETTE
Wag`on*ette", n.

Defn: A kind of pleasure wagon, uncovered and with seats extended
along the sides, designed to carry six or eight persons besides the
driver.

WAGONFUL
Wag"on*ful, n.; pl. Wagonfuls (.

Defn: As much as a wagon will hold; enough to fill a wagon; a
wagonload.

WAGON-HEADED
Wag"on-head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a top, or head, shaped like the top of a covered wagon,
or resembling in section or outline an inverted U, thus as, a
wagonheaded ceiling.

WAGONLOAD
Wag"on*load`, n.

Defn: Same as Wagonful.

WAGON-ROOFED
Wag"on-roofed`, a.

Defn: Having a roof, or top, shaped like an inverted U; wagon-headed.

WAGONRY
Wag"on*ry, n.

Defn: Conveyance by means of a wagon or wagons. [Obs.] Milton.

WAGONWRIGHT
Wag"on*wright`, n.

Defn: One who makes wagons.

WAGTAIL
Wag"tail`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of many species of Old World singing birds belonging to
Motacilla and several allied genera of the family Motacillidæ. They
have the habit of constantly jerking their long tails up and down,
whence the name. Field wagtail, any one of several species of
wagtails of the genus Budytes having the tail shorter, the legs
longer, and the hind claw longer and straighter, than do the water
wagtails. Most of the species are yellow beneath. Called also yellow
wagtail.
 -- Garden wagtail, the Indian black-breasted wagtail (Nemoricola
Indica).
 -- Pied wagtail, the common European water wagtail (Motacilla
lugubris). It is variegated with black and white. The name is applied
also to other allied species having similar colors. Called also pied
dishwasher.
 -- Wagtail flycatcher, a true flycatcher (Sauloprocta motacilloides)
common in Southern Australia, where it is very tame, and frequents
stock yards and gardens and often builds its nest about houses; --
called also black fantail.
 -- Water wagtail. (a) Any one of several species of wagtails of the
restricted genus Motacilla. They live chiefly on the shores of ponds
and streams. (b) The American water thrush. See Water thrush.
 -- Wood wagtail, an Asiatic wagtail; (Calobates sulphurea) having a
slender bill and short legs.

WAH
Wah (wä), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The panda.

WAHABEE
Wa*ha"bee, n. Etym: [Ar. wahabi.]

Defn: A follower of Abdel Wahab (b. 1691; d. 1787), a reformer of
Mohammedanism. His doctrines prevail particularly among the Bedouins,
and the sect, though checked in its influence, extends to most parts
of Arabia, and also into India. [Written also Wahaby.]

WAHOO
Wa*hoo", n. Any of various American trees or shrubs; specif.:
 (a) A certain shrub (Evonymus atropurpureus) having purple capsules
which in dehiscence expose the scarlet-ariled seeds; -- called also
burning bush.
 (b) Cascara buckthorn.
 (c) Basswood.

WAHOO
Wa*hoo", n.

Defn: A dark blue scombroid food fish (Acanthocibium solandri or
petus) of Florida and the West Indies.

WAID
Waid, a. Etym: [For weighed.]

Defn: Oppressed with weight; crushed; weighed down. [Obs.] Tusser.

WAIF
Waif, n. Etym: [OF. waif, gaif, as adj., lost, unclaimed, chose gaive
a waif, LL. wayfium, res vaivae; of Scand. origin. See Waive.]

1. (Eng. Law.)

Defn: Goods found of which the owner is not known; originally, such
goods as a pursued thief threw away to prevent being apprehended,
which belonged to the king unless the owner made pursuit of the
felon, took him, and brought him to justice. Blackstone.

2. Hence, anything found, or without an owner; that which comes
along, as it were, by chance. "Rolling in his mind old waifs of
rhyme." Tennyson.

3. A wanderer; a castaway; a stray; a homeless child.
A waif Desirous to return, and not received. Cowper.

WAIFT
Waift, n.

Defn: A waif. [Obs.] Spenser.

WAIL
Wail, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Icel. val choice, velja to choose, akin to
Goth. waljan, G. wählen.]

Defn: To choose; to select. [Obs.] "Wailed wine and meats." Henryson.

WAIL
Wail, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wailed; p. pr. & vb. n. Wailing.] Etym:
[OE. wailen, weilen, probably fr. Icel. væla; cf. Icel. væ, vei, woe,
and E. wayment, also OE. wai, wei, woe. Cf. Woe.]

Defn: To lament; to bewail; to grieve over; as, to wail one's death.
Shak.

WAIL
Wail, v. i.

Defn: To express sorrow audibly; to make mournful outcry; to weep.
Therefore I will wail and howl. Micah i. 8.

WAIL
Wail, n.

Defn: Loud weeping; violent lamentation; wailing. "The wail of the
forest." Longfellow.

WAILER
Wail"er, n.

Defn: One who wails or laments.

WAILERESS
Wail"er*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who wails. [Obs.]

WAILFUL
Wail"ful, a.

Defn: Sorrowful; mournful. " Like wailful widows." Spenser. "Wailful
sonnets." Shak.

WAILINGLY
Wail"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a wailing manner.

WAILMENT
Wail"ment, n.

Defn: Lamentation; loud weeping; wailing. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket.

WAIMENT
Wai"ment. v. & n.

Defn: See Wayment. [Obs.]

WAIN
Wain, n. Etym: [OE. wain, AS. wægn; akin to D. & G. wagen, OHG.
wagan, Icel. & Sw. vagn, Dan. vogn, and E. way. Way, Weigh, and cf.
Wagon.]

1. A four-wheeled vehicle for the transportation of goods, produce,
etc.; a wagon.
The wardens see nothing but a wain of hay. Jeffrey.
Driving in ponderous wains their household goods to the seashore.
Longfellow.

2. A chariot. [Obs.] The Wain. (Astron.) See Charles's Wain, in the
Vocabulary.
 -- Wain rope, a cart rope. Shak.

WAINABLE
Wain"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being plowed or cultivated; arable; tillable. [Obs.]
Cowell.

WAINAGE
Wain"age (; 48), n. Etym: [From Wain.]

Defn: A finding of carriages, carts, etc., for the transportation of
goods, produce, etc. Ainsworth.

WAINAGE
Wain"age, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: See Gainage, a.

WAINBOTE
Wain"bote`, n. Etym: [Wain + bote.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: See Cartbote. See also the Note under Bote.

WAINSCOT
Wain"scot, n. Etym: [OD. waeghe-schot, D. wagen-schot, a clapboard,
fr. OD. waeg, weeg, a wall (akin to AS. wah; cf. Icel. veggr) + schot
a covering of boards (akin to E. shot, shoot).]

1. Oaken timber or boarding. [Obs.]
A wedge wainscot is fittest and most proper for cleaving of an oaken
tree. Urquhart.
Inclosed in a chest of wainscot. J. Dart.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A wooden lining or boarding of the walls of apartments, usually
made in panels.

3.
3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of European moths of the family
Leucanidæ.

Note: They are reddish or yellowish, streaked or lined with black and
white. Their larvæ feed on grasses and sedges.

WAINSCOT
Wain"scot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wainscoted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Wainscoting.]

Defn: To line with boards or panelwork, or as if with panelwork; as,
to wainscot a hall.
Music soundeth better in chambers wainscoted than hanged. Bacon.
The other is wainscoted with looking-glass. Addison.

WAINSCOTING
Wain"scot*ing, n.

1. The act or occupation of covering or lining with boards in panel.

2. The material used to wainscot a house, or the wainscot as a whole;
panelwork.

WAINWRIGHT
Wain"wright`, n.

Defn: Same as Wagonwright.

WAIR
Wair, n. (Carp.)

Defn: A piece of plank two yard Bailey.

WAIST
Waist, n. Etym: [OE. wast; originally, growth, akin to AS. weaxan to
grow; cf. AS. wæstm growth. See Wax to grow.]

1. That part of the human body which is immediately below the ribs or
thorax; the small part of the body between the thorax and hips.
Chaucer.
I am in the waist two yards about. Shak.

2. Hence, the middle part of other bodies; especially (Naut.), that
part of a vessel's deck, bulwarks, etc., which is between the
quarter-deck and the forecastle; the middle part of the ship.

3. A garment, or part of a garment, which covers the body from the
neck or shoulders to the waist line.

4. A girdle or belt for the waist. [Obs.] Shak. Waist anchor. See
Sheet anchor, 1, in the Vocabulary.

WAISTBAND
Waist"band, n.

1. The band which encompasses the waist; esp., one on the upper part
of breeches, trousers, pantaloons, skirts, or the like.

2. A sash worn by women around the waist. [R.]

WAISTCLOTH
Waist"cloth, n.

1. A cloth or wrapper worn about the waist; by extension, such a
garment worn about the hips and passing between the thighs.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A covering of canvas or tarpaulin for the hammocks, stowed on
the nettings, between the quarterdeck and the forecastle.

WAISTCOAT
Waist"coat, n.
(a) A short, sleeveless coat or garment for men, worn under the coat,
extending no lower than the hips, and covering the waist; a vest.
(b) A garment occasionally worn by women as a part of fashionable
costume.

Note: The waistcoat was a part of female attire as well as male . . .
It was only when the waistcoat was worn without a gown or upper dress
that it was considered the mark of a mad or profligate woman. Nares.

Syn.
 -- See Vest.

WAISTCOATEER
Waist`coat*eer", n.

Defn: One wearing a waistcoat; esp., a woman wearing one uncovered,
or thought fit for such a habit; hence, a loose woman; strumpet.
[Obs.]
Do you think you are here, sir, Amongst your waistcoateers, your base
wenches Beau. & Fl.

WAISTCOATING
Waist"coat*ing, n.

Defn: A fabric designed for waistcoats; esp., one in which there is a
pattern, differently colored yarns being used.

WAISTER
Waist"er, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A seaman, usually a green hand or a broken-down man, stationed
in the waist of a vessel of war. R. H. Dana, Jr.

WAIT
Wait, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Waited; p. pr. & vb. n. Waiting.] Etym:
[OE. waiten, OF. waitier, gaitier, to watch, attend, F. guetter to
watch, to wait for, fr. OHG. wahta a guard, watch, G. wacht, from
OHG. wahhen to watch, be awake. *134. See Wake, v. i.]

1. To watch; to observe; to take notice. [Obs.]
"But [unless] ye wait well and be privy, I wot right well, I am but
dead," quoth she. Chaucer.

2. To stay or rest in expectation; to stop or remain stationary till
the arrival of some person or event; to rest in patience; to stay;
not to depart.
All the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come.
Job xiv. 14.
They also serve who only stand and wait. Milton.
Haste, my dear father; 't is no time to wait. Dryden.

To wait on or upon. (a) To attend, as a servant; to perform services
for; as, to wait on a gentleman; to wait on the table. "Authority and
reason on her wait." Milton. "I must wait on myself, must I" Shak.
(b) To attend; to go to see; to visit on business or for ceremony.
(c) To follow, as a consequence; to await. "That ruin that waits on
such a supine temper." Dr. H. More. (d) To look watchfully at; to
follow with the eye; to watch. [R.] "It is a point of cunning to wait
upon him with whom you speak with your eye." Bacon. (e) To attend to;
to perform. "Aaron and his sons . . . shallwait on their priest's
office." Num. iii. 10. (f) (Falconry) To fly above its master,
waiting till game is sprung; -- said of a hawk. Encyc. Brit.

WAIT
Wait, v. t.

1. To stay for; to rest or remain stationary in expectation of; to
await; as, to wait orders.
Awed with these words, in camps they still abide, And wait with
longing looks their promised guide. Dryden.

2. To attend as a consequence; to follow upon; to accompany; to
await. [Obs.]

3. To attend on; to accompany; especially, to attend with ceremony or
respect. [Obs.]
He chose a thousand horse, the flower of all His warlike troops, to
wait the funeral. Dryden.
Remorse and heaviness of heart shall wait thee, And everlasting
anguish be thy portion. Rowe.

4. To cause to wait; to defer; to postpone; -- said of a meal; as, to
wait dinner. [Colloq.]

WAIT
Wait, n. Etym: [OF. waite, guaite, gaite, F. guet watch, watching,
guard, from OHG. wahta. See Wait, v. i.]

1. The act of waiting; a delay; a halt.
There is a wait of three hours at the border Mexican town of El Paso.
S. B. Griffin.

2. Ambush. "An enemy in wait." Milton.

3. One who watches; a watchman. [Obs.]

4. pl.

Defn: Hautboys, or oboes, played by town musicians; not used in the
singular. [Obs.] Halliwell.

5. pl.

Defn: Musicians who sing or play at night or in the early morning,
especially at Christmas time; serenaders; musical watchmen. [Written
formerly wayghtes.]
Hark! are the waits abroad Beau & Fl.
The sound of the waits, rude as may be their minstrelsy, breaks upon
the mild watches of a winter night with the effect of perfect
harmony. W. Irving.
To lay wait, to prepare an ambuscade.
 -- To lie in wait. See under 4th Lie.

WAIT-A-BIT
Wait"-a-bit`, n.

Defn: Any of several plants bearing thorns or stiff hooked
appendages, which catch and tear the clothing, as:
 (a) The greenbrier.
 (b) Any of various species of hawthorn.
 (c) In South Africa, one of numerous acacias and mimosas.
 (d) The grapple plant.
 (e) The prickly ash.

WAITER
Wait"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, waits; an attendant; a servant in
attendance, esp. at table.
The waiters stand in ranks; the yeomen cry, "Make room," as if a duke
were passing by. Swift.

2. A vessel or tray on which something is carried, as dishes, etc.; a
salver. Coast waiter. See under Coast, n.

WAITING
Wait"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Wait, v. In waiting, in attendance; as, lords in
waiting. [Eng.] -- Waiting gentlewoman, a woman who waits upon a
person of rank.
 -- Waiting maid, Waiting woman, a maid or woman who waits upon
another as a personal servant.

WAITINGLY
Wait"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By waiting.

WAITRESS
Wait"ress, n.

Defn: A female waiter or attendant; a waiting maid or waiting woman.

WAIT--WHILE
Wait"-a-while`, n.
 (a) One of the Australian wattle trees (Acacia colletioides), so
called from the impenetrability of the thicket which it makes.
 (b) = Wait-a-bit.

WAIVE
Waive, n. Etym: [See Waive, v. t. ]

1. A waif; a castaway. [Obs.] Donne.

2. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A woman put out of the protection of the law. See Waive, v. t.,
3 (b), and the Note.

WAIVE
Waive, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Waived; p. pr. & vb. n. Waiving.] Etym:
[OE. waiven, weiven, to set aside, remove, OF. weyver, quesver, to
waive, of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. veifa to wave, to vibrate, akin to
Skr. vip to tremble. Cf. Vibrate, Waif.] [Written also wave.]

1. To relinquish; to give up claim to; not to insist on or claim; to
refuse; to forego.
He waiveth milk, and flesh, and all. Chaucer.
We absolutely do renounce or waive our own opinions, absolutely
yielding to the direction of others. Barrow.

2. To throw away; to cast off; to reject; to desert.

3. (Law)
(a) To throw away; to relinquish voluntarily, as a right which one
may enforce if he chooses. (b) (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: To desert; to abandon. Burrill.

Note: The term was applied to a woman, in the same sense as outlaw to
a man. A woman could not be outlawed, in the proper sense of the
word, because, according to Bracton, she was never in law, that is,
in a frankpledge or decennary; but she might be waived, and held as
abandoned. Burrill.

WAIVE
Waive, v. i.

Defn: To turn aside; to recede. [Obs.]
To waive from the word of Solomon. Chaucer.

WAIVER
Waiv"er, n. (Law)

Defn: The act of waiving, or not insisting on, some right, claim, or
privilege.

WAIVURE
Waiv"ure, n.

Defn: See Waiver. [R.]

WAIWODE
Wai"wode, n.

Defn: See Waywode.

WAI WU PU
Wai Wu Pu. [Chinese wai foreign + wu affairs + pu office.]

Defn: The Department of Foreign Affairs in the Chinese government.

The Tsung-li Yamen, or Foreign Office, created by a decree of January
19, 1861, was in July, 1902, superseded by the formation of a new
Foreign Office called the Wai Wu Pu, . . . with precedence before all
other boards.
J. Scott Keltie.

WAKE
Wake, n. Etym: [Originally, an open space of water svök a hole,
opening in ice, Sw. vak, Dan. vaage, perhaps akin to E. humid.]

Defn: The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, any
track; as, the wake of an army.
This effect followed immediately in the wake of his earliest
exertions. De Quincey.
Several humbler persons . . . formed quite a procession in the dusty
wake of his chariot wheels. Thackeray.

WAKE
Wake, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Waked or Woke (p. pr. & vb. n. Waking.]
Etym: [AS. wacan, wacian; akin to OFries. waka, OS. wak, D. waken, G.
wachen, OHG. wahh, Icel. vaka, Sw. vaken, Dan. vaage, Goth. wakan, v.
i., uswakjan, v. t., Skr. vajay to rouse, to impel. Vigil, Wait, v.
i., Watch, v. i.]

1. To be or to continue awake; to watch; not to sleep.
The father waketh for the daughter. Ecclus. xlii. 9.
Though wisdom wake, suspicion sleeps. Milton.
I can not think any time, waking or sleeping, without being sensible
of it. Locke.

2. To sit up late festive purposes; to hold a night revel.
The king doth wake to-night, and takes his rouse, Keeps wassail, and
the swaggering upspring reels. Shak.

3. To be excited or roused from sleep; to awake; to be awakened; to
cease to sleep; -- often with up.
He infallibly woke up at the sound of the concluding doxology. G.
Eliot.

4. To be exited or roused up; to be stirred up from a dormant,
torpid, or inactive state; to be active.
Gentle airs due at their hour To fan the earth now waked. Milton.
Then wake, my soul, to high desires. Keble.

WAKE
Wake, v. t.

1. To rouse from sleep; to awake.
The angel . . . came again and waked me. Zech. iv. 1.

2. To put in motion or action; to arouse; to excite. "I shall waken
all this company." Chaucer.
Lest fierce remembrance wake my sudden rage. Milton.
Even Richard's crusade woke little interest in his island realm. J.
R. Green.

3. To bring to life again, as if from the sleep of death; to
reanimate; to revive.
To second life Waked in the renovation of the just. Milton.

4. To watch, or sit up with, at night, as a dead body.

WAKE
Wake, n.

1. The act of waking, or being awaked; also, the state of being
awake. [Obs. or Poetic]
Making such difference 'twixt wake and sleep. Shak.
Singing her flatteries to my morning wake. Dryden.

2. The state of forbearing sleep, especially for solemn or festive
purposes; a vigil.
The warlike wakes continued all the night, And funeral games played
at new returning light. Dryden.
The wood nymphs, decked with daises trim, Their merry wakes and
pastimes keep. Milton.

3. Specifically:
(a) (Ch. of Eng.) An annual parish festival formerly held in
commemoration of the dedication of a church. Originally, prayers were
said on the evening preceding, and hymns were sung during the night,
in the church; subsequently, these vigils were discontinued, and the
day itself, often with succeeding days, was occupied in rural
pastimes and exercises, attended by eating and drinking, often to
excess.
Great solemnities were made in all churches, and great fairs and
wakes throughout all England. Ld. Berners.
And every village smokes at wakes with lusty cheer. Drayton.

(b) The sitting up of persons with a dead body, often attended with a
degree of festivity, chiefly among the Irish. "Blithe as shepherd at
a wake." Cowper. Wake play, the ceremonies and pastimes connected
with a wake. See Wake, n., 3 (b), above. [Obs.] Chaucer.

WAKEFUL
Wake"ful, a.

Defn: Not sleeping; indisposed to sleep; watchful; vigilant.
Dissembling sleep, but wakeful with the fright. Dryden.
-- Wake"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Wake"ful*ness, n.

WAKEN
Wak"en, v. i. [imp. & p. pr. Wakened; p. pr. & vb. n. Wakening.]
Etym: [OE. waknen, AS. wæcnan; akin to Goth. gawaknan. See Wake, v.
i.]

Defn: To wake; to cease to sleep; to be awakened.
Early, Turnus wakening with the light. Dryden.

WAKEN
Wak"en, v. t.

1. To excite or rouse from sleep; to wake; to awake; to awaken. "Go,
waken Eve." Milton.

2. To excite; to rouse; to move to action; to awaken.
Then Homer's and Tyrtæus' martial muse Wakened the world. Roscommon.
Venus now wakes, and wakens love. Milton.
They introduce Their sacred song, and waken raptures high. Milton.

WAKENER
Wak"en*er, n.

Defn: One who wakens.

WAKENING
Wak"en*ing, n.

1. The act of one who wakens; esp., the act of ceasing to sleep; an
awakening.

2. (Scots Law)

Defn: The revival of an action. Burrill.
They were too much ashamed to bring any wakening of the process
against Janet. Sir W. Scott.

WAKER
Wak"er, n.

Defn: One who wakes.

WAKE-ROBIN
Wake"-rob`in, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Arum, especially, in England, the
cuckoopint (Arum maculatum).

Note: In America the name is given to several species of Trillium,
and sometimes to the Jack-in-the-pulpit.

WAKETIME
Wake"time`, n.

Defn: Time during which one is awake. [R.] Mrs. Browning.

WAKF
Wakf (wukf), n. [Ar. waqf.] (Moham. Law)

Defn: The granting or dedication of property in trust for a pious
purpose, that is, to some object that tends to the good of mankind,
as to support a mosque or caravansary, to provide for support of
one's family, kin, or neighbors, to benefit some particular person or
persons and afterward the poor, etc.; also, the trust so created, or
the property in trust.