

ACTLESS
Act"less, a.

Defn: Without action or spirit. [R.]

ACTON
Ac"ton, n. Etym: [OF. aketon, auqueton, F. hoqueton, a quilted
jacket, fr. Sp. alcoton, algodon, cotton. Cf. Cotton.]

Defn: A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later) a jacket
plated with mail. [Spelled also hacqueton.] [Obs.] Halliwell. Sir W.
Scott.

ACTOR
Ac"tor, n. Etym: [L. actor, fr. agere to act.]

1. One who acts, or takes part in any affair; a doer.

2. A theatrical performer; a stageplayer.
After a well graced actor leaves the stage. Shak.

3. (Law)
(a) An advocate or proctor in civil courts or causes. Jacobs.
(b) One who institutes a suit; plaintiff or complainant.

ACTRESS
Ac`tress, n. Etym: [Cf. F. actrice.]

1. A female actor or doer. [Obs.] Cockeram.

2. A female stageplayer; a woman who acts a part.

ACTUAL
Ac"tu*al (#; 135), a. Etym: [OE. actuel, F. actuel, L. actualis, fr.
agere to do, act.]

1. Involving or comprising action; active. [Obs.]
Her walking and other actual performances. Shak.
Let your holy and pious intention be actual; that is . . . by a
special prayer or action, . . . given to God. Jer. Taylor.

2. Existing in act or reality; really acted or acting; in fact; real;
-- opposed to potential, possible, virtual, speculative, coceivable,
theoretical, or nominal; as, the actual cost of goods; the actual
case under discussion.

3. In action at the time being; now exiting; present; as the actual
situation of the country. Actual cautery. See under Cautery.
 -- Actual sin (Theol.), that kind of sin which is done by ourselves
in contradistinction to "original sin."

Syn.
 -- Real; genuine; positive; certain. See Real.

ACTUAL
Ac"tu*al, n. (Finance)

Defn: Something actually received; real, as distinct from estimated,
receipts. [Cant]
The accounts of revenues supplied . . . were not real receipts: not,
in financial language, "actuals," but only Egyptian budget estimates.
Fortnightly Review.

ACTUALIST
Ac"tu*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who deals with or considers actually existing facts and
conditions, rather than fancies or theories; -- opposed to idealist.
J. Grote.

ACTUALITY
Ac`tu*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Actualities.

Defn: The state of being actual; reality; as, the actuality of God's
nature. South.

ACTUALIZATION
Ac`tu*al*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: A making actual or really existent. [R.] Emerson.

ACTUALIZE
Ac"tu*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make actual; to realize in action. [R.] Coleridge.

ACTUALLY
Ac"tu*al*ly, adv.

1. Actively. [Obs.] "Neither actually . . . nor passively." Fuller.

2. In act or in fact; really; in truth; positively.

ACTUALNESS
Ac"tu*al*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being actual; actuality.

ACTUARIAL
Ac`tu*a"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to actuaries; as, the actuarial value of an
annuity.

ACTUARY
Ac"tu*a*ry, n.; pl. Actuaries. Etym: [L. actuarius copyist, clerk,
fr. actus, p. p. of agere to do, act.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A registar or clerk; -- used originally in courts of civil law
jurisdiction, but in Europe used for a clerk or registar generally.

2. The computing official of an insurance company; one whose
profession it is to calculate for insurance companies the risks and
premiums for life, fire, and other insurances.

ACTUATE
Ac"tu*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Actuated; p. pr. & vb. n. Actuating.]
Etym: [LL. actuatus, p. p. of actuare, fr. L. actus act.]

1. To put into action or motion; to move or incite to action; to
influence actively; to move as motives do; -- more commonly used of
persons.
Wings, which others were contriving to actuate by the perpetual
motion. Johnson.
Men of the greatest abilities are most fired with ambition; and, on
the contrary, mean and narrow minds are the least actuated by it.
Addison.

2. To carry out in practice; to perform. [Obs.] "To actuate what you
command." Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To move; impel; incite; rouse; instigate; animate.

ACTUATE
Ac"tu*ate, a. Etym: [LL. actuatus, p. p. of actuare.]

Defn: Put in action; actuated. [Obs.] South.

ACTUATION
Ac`tu*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. actuatio.]

Defn: A bringing into action; movement. Bp. Pearson.

ACTUATOR
Ac"tu*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who actuates, or puts into action. [R.] Melville.

ACTUOSE
Ac"tu*ose`, a. Etym: [L. actuosus.]

Defn: Very active. [Obs.]

ACTUOSITY
Ac`tu*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: Abundant activity. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

ACTURE
Ac"ture, n.

Defn: Action. [Obs.] Shak.

ACTURIENCE
Ac*tu"ri*ence, n. Etym: [A desid. of L. agere, actum, to act.]

Defn: Tendency or impulse to act. [R.]
Acturience, or desire of action, in one form or another, whether as
restlessness, ennui, dissatisfaction, or the imagination of something
desirable. J. Grote.

ACUATE
Ac"u*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. acus needle.]

Defn: To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken. [Obs.] "[To] acuate
the blood." Harvey.

ACUATE
Ac"u*ate, a.

Defn: Sharpened; sharp-pointed.

ACUATION
Ac`u*a"tion, n.

Defn: Act of sharpening. [R.]

ACUITION
Ac`u*i"tion, n. Etym: [L. acutus, as if acuitus, p. p. of acuere to
sharpen.]

Defn: The act of sharpening. [Obs.]

ACUITY
A*cu"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. acuitas: cf. F. acuité.]

Defn: Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc.

ACULEATE
A*cu"le*ate, a. Etym: [L. aculeatus, fr. aculeus, dim. of acus
needle.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a sting; covered with prickles; sharp like a prickle.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having prickles, or sharp points; beset with prickles.

3. Severe or stinging; incisive. [R.] Bacon.

ACULEATED
A*cu"le*a`ted, a.

Defn: Having a sharp point; armed with prickles; prickly; aculeate.

ACULEIFORM
A*cu"le*i*form, a.

Defn: Like a prickle.

ACULEOLATE
A*cu"le*o*late, a. Etym: [L. aculeolus little needle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having small prickles or sharp points. Gray.

ACULEOUS
A*cu"le*ous, a.

Defn: Aculeate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ACULEUS
A*cu"le*us, n.; pl. Aculei. Etym: [L., dim. of acus needle.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A prickle growing on the bark, as in some brambles and roses.
Lindley.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sting.

ACUMEN
A*cu"men, n. Etym: [L. acumen, fr. acuere to sharpen. Cf. Acute.]

Defn: Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind;
the faculty of nice discrimination. Selden.

Syn.
 -- Sharpness; sagacity; keenness; shrewdness; acuteness.

ACUMINATE
A*cu"mi*nate, a. Etym: [L. acuminatus, p. p. of acuminare to sharpen,
fr. acumen. See Acumen.]

Defn: Tapering to a point; pointed; as, acuminate leaves, teeth, etc.

ACUMINATE
A*cu"mi*nate, v. t.

Defn: To render sharp or keen. [R.] "To acuminate even despair."
Cowper.

ACUMINATE
A*cu"mi*nate, v. i.

Defn: To end in, or come to, a sharp point. "Acuminating in a cone of
prelacy." Milton.

ACUMINATION
A*cu`mi*na"tion, n.

Defn: A sharpening; termination in a sharp point; a tapering point.
Bp. Pearson.

ACUMINOSE
A*cu"mi*nose`, a.

Defn: Terminating in a flat, narrow end. Lindley.

ACUMINOUS
A*cu"mi*nous, a.

Defn: Characterized by acumen; keen. Highmore.

ACUPRESSURE
Ac`u*pres"sure, n. Etym: [L. acus needle + premere, pressum, to
press.] (Surg.)

Defn: A mode of arresting hemorrhage resulting from wounds or
surgical operations, by passing under the divided vessel a needle,
the ends of which are left exposed externally on the cutaneous
surface. Simpson.

ACUPUNCTURATION
Ac`u*punc`tu*ra"tion, n.

Defn: See Acupuncture.

ACUPUNCTURE
Ac`u*punc"ture, n. Etym: [L. acus needle + punctura a pricking, fr.
pungere to prick: cf. F. acuponcture.]

Defn: Pricking with a needle; a needle prick. Specifically (Med.):

Defn: The insertion of needles into the living tissues for remedial
purposes.

ACUPUNCTURE
Ac`u*punc"ture, v. t.

Defn: To treat with acupuncture.

ACUSTUMAUNCE
A*cus"tum*aunce, n.

Defn: See Accustomance. [Obs.]

ACUTANGULAR
A*cut"an`gu*lar, a.

Defn: Acute-angled.

ACUTE
A*cute", a. Etym: [L. acutus, p. p. of acuere to sharpen, fr. a root
ak to be sharp. Cf. Ague, Cute, Edge.]

1. Sharp at the end; ending in a sharp point; pointed; -- opposed to
blunt or obtuse; as, an acute angle; an acute leaf.

2. Having nice discernment; perceiving or using minute distinctions;
penetrating; clever; shrewd; -- opposed to Ant: dull or Ant: stupid;
as, an acute observer; acute remarks, or reasoning.

3. Having nice or quick sensibility; susceptible to slight
impressions; acting keenly on the senses; sharp; keen; intense; as, a
man of acute eyesight, hearing, or feeling; acute pain or pleasure.

4. High, or shrill, in respect to some other sound; -- opposed to
grave or low; as, an acute tone or accent.

5. (Med.)

Defn: Attended with symptoms of some degree of severity, and coming
speedily to a crisis; -- opposed to chronic; as, an acute disease.
Acute angle (Geom.), an angle less than a right angle.

Syn.
 -- Subtile; ingenious; sharp; keen; penetrating; sagacious; sharp-
witted; shrewd; discerning; discriminating. See Subtile.

ACUTE
A*cute", v. t.

Defn: To give an acute sound to; as, he acutes his rising inflection
too much. [R.] Walker.

ACUTE-ANGLED
A*cute"-*an`gled, a.

Defn: Having acute angles; as, an acute-angled triangle, a triangle
with every one of its angles less than a right angle.

ACUTELY
A*cute"ly, adv.

Defn: In an acute manner; sharply; keenly; with nice discrimination.

ACUTENESS
A*cute"ness, n.

1. The quality of being acute or pointed; sharpness; as, the
acuteness of an angle.

2. The faculty of nice discernment or perception; acumen; keenness;
sharpness; sensitiveness; -- applied to the senses, or the
understanding. By acuteness of feeling, we perceive small objects or
slight impressions: by acuteness of intellect, we discern nice
distinctions.
Perhaps, also, he felt his professional acuteness interested in
bringing it to a successful close. Sir W. Scott.

3. Shrillness; high pitch; -- said of sounds.

4. (Med.)

Defn: Violence of a disease, which brings it speedily to a crisis.

Syn.
 -- Penetration; sagacity; keenness; ingenuity; shrewdness; subtlety;
sharp-wittedness.

ACUTIFOLIATE
A*cu`ti*fo"li*ate, a. Etym: [L. acutus sharp + folium leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having sharp-pointed leaves.

ACUTILOBATE
A*cu`ti*lo"bate, a. Etym: [L. acutus sharp + E. lobe.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having acute lobes, as some leaves.

ACUTORSION
Ac`u*tor"sion, n. [L. acus needle + torsion.] (Med.)

Defn: The twisting of an artery with a needle to arrest hemorrhage.

ACYCLIC
A*cyc"lic, a. [Pref. a- not + cyclic.]

Defn: Not cyclic; not disposed in cycles or whorls; as: (a) (Bot.)

Defn: Of a flower, having its parts inserted spirally on the
receptacle.
 (b) (Org. Chem.) Having an open-chain structure; aliphatic.

ACYL
Ac"yl, n.  [Acid + -yl.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: An acid radical, as acetyl, malonyl, or benzoyl.

AD-
Ad-. Etym: [A Latin preposition, signifying to. See At.]

Defn: As a prefix ad- assumes the forms ac-, af-, ag-, al-, an-, ap-,
ar-, as-, at-, assimilating the d with the first letter of the word
to which ad- is prefixed. It remains unchanged before vowels, and
before d, h, j, m, v. Examples: adduce, adhere, adjacent, admit,
advent, accord, affect, aggregate, allude, annex, appear, etc. It
becomes ac- before qu, as in acquiesce.

ADACT
Ad*act", v. t. Etym: [L. adactus, p. p. of adigere.]

Defn: To compel; to drive. [Obs.] Fotherby.

ADACTYL; ADACTYLOUS
A*dac"tyl, A*dac"tyl*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) Without fingers or without toes.
(b) Without claws on the feet (of crustaceous animals).

ADAGE
Ad"age, n. Etym: [F. adage, fr. L. adagium; ad + the root of L. aio I
say.]

Defn: An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; a
proverb.
Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would," Like the poor cat i' the
adage. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Axiom; maxim; aphorism; proverb; saying; saw; apothegm. See
Axiom.

ADAGIAL
A*da"gi*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an adage; proverbial. "Adagial verse." Barrow.

ADAGIO
A*da"gio, a. & adv. Etym: [It. adagio; ad (L. ad) at + agio
convenience, leisure, ease. See Agio.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully. When repeated, adagio,
adagio, it directs the movement to be very slow.

ADAGIO
A*da"gio, n.

Defn: A piece of music in adagio time; a slow movement; as, an adagio
of Haydn.

ADAM
Ad"am, n.

1. The name given in the Bible to the first man, the progenitor of
the human race.

2. (As a symbol)

Defn: "Original sin;" human frailty.
And whipped the offending Adam out of him. Shak.
Adam's ale, water. [Coll.] -- Adam's apple.

1. (Bot.) (a) A species of banana (Musa paradisiaca). It attains a
height of twenty feet or more. Paxton]. (b) A species of lime (Citris
limetta).

2. The projection formed by the thyroid cartilage in the neck. It is
particularly prominent in males, and is so called from a notion that
it was caused by the forbidden fruit (an apple) sticking in the
throat of our first parent.
 -- Adam's flannel (Bot.), the mullein (Verbascum thapsus).
 -- Adam's needle (Bot.), the popular name of a genus (Yucca) of
liliaceous plants.

ADAMANT
Ad"a*mant, n. Etym: [OE. adamaunt, adamant, diamond, magnet, OF.
adamant, L. adamas, adamantis, the hardest metal, fr. Gr. adamare to
love, be attached to, the word meant also magnet, as in OF. and LL.
See Diamond, Tame.]

1. A stone imagined by some to be of impenetrable hardness; a name
given to the diamond and other substance of extreme hardness; but in
modern minerology it has no technical signification. It is now a
rhetorical or poetical name for the embodiment of impenetrable
hardness.
Opposed the rocky orb Of tenfold adamant, his ample shield. Milton.

2. Lodestone; magnet. [Obs.] "A great adamant of acquaintance."
Bacon.
As true to thee as steel to adamant. Greene.

ADAMANTEAN
Ad`a*man*te"an, a. Etym: [L. adamanteus.]

Defn: Of adamant; hard as adamant. Milton.

ADAMANTINE
Ad`a*man"tine, a. Etym: [L. adamantinus, Gr.

1. Made of adamant, or having the qualities of adamant; incapable of
being broken, dissolved, or penetrated; as, adamantine bonds or
chains.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Like the diamond in hardness or luster.

ADAMBULACRAL
Ad`am*bu*la"cral, a. Etym: [L. ad + E. ambulacral.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Next to the ambulacra; as, the adambulacral ossicles of the
starfish.

ADAMIC; ADAMICAL
A*dam"ic, A*dam"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Adam, or resembling him. Adamic earth, a
name given to common red clay, from a notion that Adam means red
earth.

ADAMITE
Ad"am*ite, n. Etym: [From Adam.]

1. A descendant of Adam; a human being.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of visionaries, who, professing to imitate the
state of Adam, discarded the use of dress in their assemblies.

ADAM'S APPLE
Ad"am's ap"ple.

Defn: See under Adam.

ADANCE
A*dance", adv.

Defn: Dancing. Lowell.

ADANGLE
A*dan"gle, adv.

Defn: Dangling. Browning.

ADANSONIA
Ad`an*so"ni*a, n. Etym: [From Adanson, a French botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of great trees related to the Bombax. There are two
species, A. digitata, the baobab or monkey-bread of Africa and India,
and A. Gregorii, the sour gourd or cream-of-tartar tree of Australia.
Both have a trunk of moderate height, but of enormous diameter, and a
wide-spreading head. The fruit is oblong, and filled with pleasantly
acid pulp. The wood is very soft, and the bark is used by the natives
for making ropes and cloth. D. C. Eaton.

ADAPT
A*dapt", a.

Defn: Fitted; suited. [Obs.] Swift.

ADAPT
A*dapt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adapted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adapting.]
Etym: [L. adaptare; ad + aptare to fit; cf. F. adapter. See Apt,
Adept.]

Defn: To make suitable; to fit, or suit; to adjust; to alter so as to
fit for a new use; -- sometimes followed by to or for.
For nature, always in the right, To your decays adapts my sight.
Swift.
Appeals adapted to his [man's] whole nature. Angus.
Streets ill adapted for the residence of wealthy persons. Macaulay.

ADAPTABILITY; ADAPTABLENESS
A*dapt`a*bil"i*ty, A*dapt"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adaptable; suitableness. "General
adaptability for every purpose." Farrar.

ADAPTABLE
A*dapt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adapted.

ADAPTATION
Ad`ap*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adaptation, LL. adaptatio.]

1. The act or process of adapting, or fitting; or the state of being
adapted or fitted; fitness. "Adaptation of the means to the end."
Erskine.

2. The result of adapting; an adapted form.

ADAPTATIVE
A*dapt"a*tive, a.

Defn: Adaptive. Stubbs.

ADAPTEDNESS
A*dapt"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being adapted; suitableness; special
fitness.

ADAPTER
A*dapt"er, n.

1. One who adapts.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A connecting tube; an adopter.

ADAPTION
A*dap"tion, n.

Defn: Adaptation. Cheyne.

ADAPTIVE
A*dapt"ive, a.

Defn: Suited, given, or tending, to adaptation; characterized by
adaptation; capable of adapting. Coleridge.
 -- A*dapt"ive*ly, adv.

ADAPTIVENESS
A*dapt"ive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adaptive; capacity to adapt.

ADAPTLY
A*dapt"ly, adv.

Defn: In a suitable manner. [R.] Prior.

ADAPTNESS
A*dapt"ness, n.

Defn: Adaptedness. [R.]

ADAPTORIAL
Ad`ap*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Adaptive. [R.]

ADAR
A"dar, n. Etym: [Heb. adär.]

Defn: The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and the
sixth of the civil. It corresponded nearly with March.

ADARCE
A*dar"ce, n. Etym: [L. adarce, adarca, Gr.

Defn: A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds in
Galatia. It is soft and porous, and was formerly used for cleansing
the skin from freckles and tetters, and also in leprosy. Dana.

ADATIS
Ad"a*tis, n.

Defn: A fine cotton cloth of India.

ADAUNT
A*daunt", v. t. Etym: [OE. adaunten to overpower, OF. adonter; à (L.
ad) + donter, F. dompter. See Daunt.]

Defn: To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate. [Obs.] Skelton.

ADAW
A*daw", v. t. Etym: [Cf. OE. adawe of dawe, AS. of dagum from days,
i. e., from life, out of life.]

Defn: To subdue; to daunt. [Obs.]
The sight whereof did greatly him adaw. Spenser.

ADAW
A*daw", v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. adawen to wake; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-
, Ger. er-) + dawen, dagon, to dawn. See Daw.]

Defn: To awaken; to arouse. [Obs.]
A man that waketh of his sleep He may not suddenly well taken keep
Upon a thing, ne seen it parfitly Till that he be adawed verily.
Chaucer.

ADAYS
A*days", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- (for on) + day; the final s was orig. a
genitive ending, afterwards forming adverbs.]

Defn: By day, or every day; in the daytime. [Obs.] Fielding.

AD CAPTANDUM
Ad cap*tan"dum. Etym: [L., for catching.]

Defn: A phrase used adjectively sometimes of meretricious attempts to
catch or win popular favor.

ADD
Add, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Added; p. pr. & vb. n. Adding.] Etym: [L.
addere; ad + dare to give, put. Cf. Date, Do.]

1. To give by way of increased possession (to any one); to bestow
(on).
The Lord shall add to me another son. Gen. xxx. 24.

2. To join or unite, as one thing to another, or as several
particulars, so as to increase the number, augment the quantity,
enlarge the magnitude, or so as to form into one aggregate. Hence: To
sum up; to put together mentally; as, to add numbers; to add up a
column.
Back to thy punishment, False fugitive, and to thy speed add wings.
Milton.
As easily as he can add together the ideas of two days or two years.
Locke.

3. To append, as a statement; to say further.
He added that he would willingly consent to the entire abolition of
the tax. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To Add, Join, Annex, Unite, Coalesce. We add by bringing things
together so as to form a whole. We join by putting one thing to
another in close or continuos connection. We annex by attaching some
adjunct to a larger body. We unite by bringing things together so
that their parts adhere or intermingle. Things coalesce by coming
together or mingling so as to form one organization. To add
quantities; to join houses; to annex territory; to unite kingdoms; to
make parties coalesce.

ADD
Add, v. i.

1. To make an addition. To add to, to augment; to increase; as, it
adds to our anxiety. "I will add to your yoke." 1 Kings xii. 14.

2. To perform the arithmetical operation of addition; as, he adds
rapidly.

ADDABLE
Add"a*ble, a. Etym: [Add, v. + -able.]

Defn: Addible.

ADDAX
Ad"dax, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, or Oryx,
nasomaculatus).

Note: It is now believed to be the Strepsiceros (twisted horn) of the
ancients. By some it is thought to be the pygarg of the Bible.

ADDEEM
Ad*deem", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + deem.]

Defn: To award; to adjudge. [Obs.] "Unto him they did addeem the
prise." Spenser.

ADDENDUM
Ad*den"dum, n.; pl. Addenda. Etym: [L., fr. addere to add.]

Defn: A thing to be added; an appendix or addition. Addendum circle
(Mech.), the circle which may be described around a circular spur
wheel or gear wheel, touching the crests or tips of the teeth.
Rankine.

ADDER
Add"er, n. Etym: [See Add.]

Defn: One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for adding
numbers.

ADDER
Ad"der, n. Etym: [OE. addere, naddere, eddre, AS. nædre, adder,
snake; akin to OS. nadra, OHG. natra, natara, Ger. natter, Goth.
nadrs, Icel. nathr, masc., nathra, fem.: cf. W. neidr, Gorn. naddyr,
Ir. nathair, L. natrix, water snake. An adder is for a nadder.]

1. A serpent. [Obs.] "The eddre seide to the woman." Wyclif. Gen.
iii. 4. )

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small venomous serpent of the genus Vipera. The common European
adder is the Vipera (or Pelias) berus. The puff adders of Africa are
species of Clotho.
(b) In America, the term is commonly applied to several harmless
snakes, as the milk adder, puffing adder, etc.
(c) Same as Sea Adder.

Note: In the sculptures the appellation is given to several venomous
serpents, -- sometimes to the horned viper (Cerastles).

ADDER FLY
Ad"der fly.

Defn: A dragon fly.

ADDER'S-TONGUE
Ad"der's-tongue`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A genus of ferns (Ophioglossum), whose seeds are produced on a
spike resembling a serpent's tongue.
(b) The yellow dogtooth violet. Gray.

ADDERWORT
Ad"der*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The common bistort or snakeweed (Polygonum bistorta).

ADDIBILITY
Add`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quantity of being addible; capability of addition. Locke.

ADDIBLE
Add"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being added. "Addible numbers." Locke.

ADDICE
Ad"dice, n.

Defn: See Adze. [Obs.] Moxon.

ADDICT
Ad*dict", p. p.

Defn: Addicted; devoted. [Obs.]

ADDICT
Ad*dict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Addicted; p. pr. & vb. n. Addicting.]
Etym: [L. addictus, p. p. of addicere to adjudge, devote; ad + dicere
to say. See Diction.]

1. To apply habitually; to devote; to habituate; -- with to. "They
addict themselves to the civil law." Evelyn.
He is addicted to his study. Beau. & Fl.
That part of mankind that addict their minds to speculations.
Adventurer.
His genius addicted him to the study of antiquity. Fuller.
A man gross . . . and addicted to low company. Macaulay.

2. To adapt; to make suitable; to fit. [Obs.]
The land about is exceedingly addicted to wood, but the coldness of
the place hinders the growth. Evelyn.

Syn.
 -- Addict, Devote, Consecrate, Dedicate. Addict was formerly used in
a good sense; as, addicted to letters; but is now mostly employed in
a bad sense or an indifferent one; as, addicted to vice; addicted to
sensual indulgence. "Addicted to staying at home." J. S. Mill. Devote
is always taken in a good sense, expressing habitual earnestness in
the pursuit of some favorite object; as, devoted to science.
Consecrate and dedicate express devotion of a higher kind, involving
religious sentiment; as, consecrated to the service of the church;
dedicated to God.

ADDICTEDNESS
Ad*dict"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being addicted; attachment.

ADDICTION
Ad*dic"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. L. addictio an adjudging.]

Defn: The state of being addicted; devotion; inclination. "His
addiction was to courses vain." Shak.

ADDISON'S DISEASE
Ad"di*son's dis*ease". Etym: [Named from Thomas Addison, M. D., of
London, who first described it.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition causing a peculiar brownish discoloration of
the skin, and thought, at one time, to be due to disease of the
suprarenal capsules (two flat triangular bodies covering the upper
part of the kidneys), but now known not to be dependent upon this
causes exclusively. It is usually fatal.

ADDITAMENT
Ad*dit"a*ment, n. Etym: [L. additamentum, fr. additus, p. p. of
addere to add.]

Defn: An addition, or a thing added. Fuller.
My persuasion that the latter verses of the chapter were an
additament of a later age. Coleridge.

ADDITION
Ad*di"tion, n. Etym: [F. addition, L. additio, fr. addere to add.]

1. The act of adding two or more things together; -- opposed to
subtraction or diminution. "This endless addition or addibility of
numbers." Locke.

2. Anything added; increase; augmentation; as, a piazza is an
addition to a building.

3. (Math.)

Defn: That part of arithmetic which treats of adding numbers.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: A dot at the right side of a note as an indication that its
sound is to be lengthened one half. [R.]

5. (Law)

Defn: A title annexed to a man's name, to identify him more
precisely; as, John Doe, Esq.; Richard Roe, Gent.; Robert Dale,
Mason; Thomas Way, of New York; a mark of distinction; a title.

6. (Her.)

Defn: Something added to a coat of arms, as a mark of honor; --
opposed to abatement. Vector addition (Geom.), that kind of addition
of two lines, or vectors, AB and BC, by which their sum is regarded
as the line, or vector, AC.

Syn.
 -- Increase; accession; augmentation; appendage; adjunct.

ADDITIONAL
Ad*di"tion*al, a.

Defn: Added; supplemental; in the way of an addition.

ADDITIONAL
Ad*di"tion*al, n.

Defn: Something added. [R.] Bacon.

ADDITIONALLY
Ad*di"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of addition.

ADDITIONARY
Ad*di"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Additional. [R.] Herbert.

ADDITITIOUS
Ad`di*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. addititius, fr. addere.]

Defn: Additive. [R.] Sir J. Herschel.

ADDITIVE
Ad"di*tive, a. Etym: [L. additivus.] (Math.)

Defn: Proper to be added; positive; -- opposed to subtractive.

ADDITORY
Ad"di*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending to add; making some addition. [R.] Arbuthnot.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, n. Etym: [OE. adel, AS. adela, mud.]

1. Liquid filth; mire. [Obs.]

2. Lees; dregs. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, a.

Defn: Having lost the power of development, and become rotten, as
eggs; putrid. Hence: Unfruitful or confused, as brains; muddled.
Dryden.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Addled; p. pr. & vb. n. Addling.]

Defn: To make addle; to grow addle; to muddle; as, he addled his
brain. "Their eggs were addled." Cowper.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. adlen, adilen, to gain, acquire; prob.
fr. Icel. ö\'eblask to acquire property, akin to othal property. Cf.
Allodial.]

1. To earn by labor. [Prov. Eng.] Forby.

2. To thrive or grow; to ripen. [Prov. Eng.]
Kill ivy, else tree will addle no more. Tusser.

ADDLE-BRAIN; ADDLE-HEAD; ADDLE-PATE
Ad"dle-brain`, Ad"dle-head`, Ad"dle-pate, n.

Defn: A foolish or dull-witted fellow. [Colloq.]

ADDLE-BRAINED; ADDLE-HEADED; ADDLE-PATED
Ad"dle-brained`, Ad"dle-head`ed, Ad"dle-pa`ted, a.

Defn: Dull-witted; stupid. "The addle-brained Oberstein." Motley.
Dull and addle-pated. Dryden.

ADDLE-PATEDNESS
Ad"dle-pa`ted*ness, n.

Defn: Stupidity.

ADDLINGS
Ad"dlings, n. pl. Etym: [See Addle, to earn.]

Defn: Earnings. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

ADDOOM
Ad*doom", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + doom.]

Defn: To adjudge. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADDORSED
Ad*dorsed", a. Etym: [L. ad + dorsum, back: cf. F. adossé.] (Her.)

Defn: Set or turned back to back.

ADDRESS
Ad*dress", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Addressed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Addressing.] Etym: [OE. adressen to raise erect, adorn, OF. adrecier,
to straighten, address, F. adresser, fr. à (L. ad) + OF. drecier, F.
dresser, to straighten, arrange. See Dress, v.]

1. To aim; to direct. [Obs.] Chaucer.
And this good knight his way with me addrest. Spenser.

2. To prepare or make ready. [Obs.]
His foe was soon addressed. Spenser.
Turnus addressed his men to single fight. Dryden.
The five foolish virgins addressed themselves at the noise of the
bridegroom's coming. Jer. Taylor.

3. Reflexively: To prepare one's self; to apply one's skill or
energies (to some object); to betake.
These men addressed themselves to the task. Macaulay.

4. To clothe or array; to dress. [Archaic]
Tecla . . . addressed herself in man's apparel. Jewel.

5. To direct, as words (to any one or any thing); to make, as a
speech, petition, etc. (to any one, an audience).
The young hero had addressed his players to him for his assistance.
Dryden.

6. To direct speech to; to make a communication to, whether spoken or
written; to apply to by words, as by a speech, petition, etc., to
speak to; to accost.
Are not your orders to address the senate Addison.
The representatives of the nation addressed the king. Swift.

7. To direct in writing, as a letter; to superscribe, or to direct
and transmit; as, he addressed a letter.

8. To make suit to as a lover; to court; to woo.

9. (Com.)

Defn: To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent or
factor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore. To
address one's self to. (a) To prepare one's self for; to apply one's
self to. (b) To direct one's speech or discourse to.

ADDRESS
Ad*dress", v. i.

1. To prepare one's self. [Obs.] "Let us address to tend on Hector's
heels." Shak.

2. To direct speech. [Obs.]
Young Turnus to the beauteous maid addrest. Dryden.

Note: The intransitive uses come from the dropping out of the
reflexive pronoun.

ADDRESS
Ad*dress, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adresse. See Address, v. t.]

1. Act of preparing one's self. [Obs.] Jer Taylor.

2. Act of addressing one's self to a person; verbal application.

3. A formal communication, either written or spoken; a discourse; a
speech; a formal application to any one; a petition; a formal
statement on some subject or special occasion; as, an address of
thanks, an address to the voters.

4. Direction or superscription of a letter, or the name, title, and
place of residence of the person addressed.

5. Manner of speaking to another; delivery; as, a man of pleasing or
insinuating address.

6. Attention in the way one's addresses to a lady. Addison.

7. Skill; skillful management; dexterity; adroitness.

Syn.
 -- Speech; discourse; harangue; oration; petition; lecture;
readiness; ingenuity; tact; adroitness.

ADDRESSEE
Ad`dress*ee", n.

Defn: One to whom anything is addressed.

ADDRESSION
Ad*dres"sion, n.

Defn: The act of addressing or directing one's course. [Rare & Obs.]
Chapman.

ADDUCE
Ad*duce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adduced; p. pr. & vb. n. Adducing.]
Etym: [L. adducere, adductum, to lead or bring to; ad + ducere to
lead. See Duke, and cf. Adduct.]

Defn: To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, or
consideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege.
Reasons . . . were adduced on both sides. Macaulay.
Enough could not be adduced to satisfy the purpose of illustration.
De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- To present; allege; advance; cite; quote; assign; urge; name;
mention.

ADDUCENT
Ad*du"cent, a. Etym: [L. addunces, p. pr. of adducere.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Bringing together or towards a given point; -- a word applied
to those muscles of the body which pull one part towards another.
Opposed to abducent.

ADDUCER
Ad*du"cer, n.

Defn: One who adduces.

ADDUCIBLE
Ad*du"ci*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adduced.
Proofs innumerable, and in every imaginable manner diversified, are
adducible. I. Taylor.

ADDUCT
Ad*duct", v. t. Etym: [L. adductus, p. p. of adducere. See Adduce.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: To draw towards a common center or a middle line. Huxley.

ADDUCTION
Ad*duc"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adduction. See Adduce.]

1. The act of adducing or bringing forward.
An adduction of facts gathered from various quarters. I. Taylor.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The action by which the parts of the body are drawn towards its
axis]; -- opposed to abduction. Dunglison.

ADDUCTIVE
Ad*duc"tive, a.

Defn: Adducing, or bringing towards or to something.

ADDUCTOR
Ad*duc"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. adducere.] (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which draws a limb or part of the body toward the
middle line of the body, or closes extended parts of the body; --
opposed to abductor; as, the adductor of the eye, which turns the eye
toward the nose.
In the bivalve shells, the muscles which close the values of the
shell are called adductor muscles. Verrill.

ADDULCE
Ad*dulce", v. t. Etym: [Like F. adoucir; fr. L. ad. + dulcis sweet.]

Defn: To sweeten; to soothe. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADEEM
A*deem", v. t. Etym: [L. adimere. See Ademption.] (Law)

Defn: To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by some
other gift.

ADELANTADILLO
A`de*lan`ta*dil"lo, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A Spanish red wine made of the first ripe grapes.

ADELANTADO
A`de*lan*ta"do, n. Etym: [Sp., prop. p. of adelantar to advance, to
promote.]

Defn: A governor of a province; a commander. Prescott.

ADELASTER
Ad*e*las"ter, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A provisional name for a plant which has not had its flowers
botanically examined, and therefore has not been referred to its
proper genus.

ADELING
Ad"el*ing, n.

Defn: Same as Atheling.

ADELOCODONIC
A*del`o*co*don"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Applied to sexual zooids of hydroids, that have a saclike form
and do not become free; -- opposed to phanerocodonic.

ADELOPOD
A*del"o*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal having feet that are not apparent.

ADELPHIA
A*del"phi*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A "brotherhood," or collection of stamens in a bundle; -- used
in composition, as in the class names, Monadelphia, Diadelphia, etc.

ADELPHOUS
A*del"phous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having coalescent or clustered filaments; -- said of stamens;
as, adelphous stamens. Usually in composition; as, monadelphous.
Gray.

ADEMPT
A*dempt", p. p. Etym: [L. ademptus, p. p. of adimere to take away.]

Defn: Takes away. [Obs.]
Without any sinister suspicion of anything being added or adempt.
Latimn.

ADEMPTION
A*demp"tion, n. Etym: [L. ademptio, fr. adimere, ademptum, to take
away; ad + emere to buy, orig. to take.] (Law)

Defn: The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, or
the like. Bouvier.

ADEN-; ADENO-
Aden- or Adeno-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Combining forms of the Greek word for gland; -- used in words
relating to the structure, diseases, etc., of the glands.

ADENALGIA; ADENALGY
Ad`e*nal"gi*a, Ad"e*nal`gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: (Med.) Pain in a gland.

ADENIFORM
A*den"i*form, a. Etym: [Aden- + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a gland; adenoid. Dunglison.

ADENITIS
Ad`e*ni"tis, n. Etym: [Aden- + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Glandular inflammation. Dunglison.

ADENOGRAPHIC
Ad`e*no*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adenography.

ADENOGRAPHY
Ad`e*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Adeno- + -graphy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which describes the glands.

ADENOID; ADENOIDAL
Ad"e*noid, Ad`e*noid"al a.

Defn: Glandlike; glandular.

ADENOLOGICAL
Ad`e*no*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adenology.

ADENOLOGY
Ad`e*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Adeno- + -logy.]

Defn: The part of physiology that treats of the glands.

ADENOMA
Ad`e*no"ma, n.; L. pl. -mata (#). [NL.; adeno- + -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A benign tumor of a glandlike structure; morbid enlargement of
a gland. -- Ad`e*nom"a*tous, a.

ADENOPATHY
Ad"e*nop"a*thy, n.  [Adeno- + Gr.  suffering,  to suffer.] (Med.)

Defn: Disease of a gland.

ADENOPHOROUS
Ad`e*noph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Adeno- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing glands.

ADENOPHYLLOUS
Ad`e*noph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Adeno- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having glands on the leaves.

ADENOSCLEROSIS
Ad"e*no*scle*ro"sis, n. [NL.; adeno- + sclerosis.] (Med.)

Defn: The hardening of a gland.

ADENOSE
Ad"e*nose`, a.

Defn: Like a gland; full of glands; glandulous; adenous.

ADENOTOMIC
Ad`e*no*tom"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adenotomy.

ADENOTOMY
Ad`e*not"o*my, n. Etym: [Adeno- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Dissection of, or incision into, a gland or glands.

ADENOUS
Ad"e*nous, a.

Defn: Same as Adenose.

ADEN ULCER
A"den ul"cer. [So named after Aden, a seaport in Southern Arabia,
where it occurs.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease endemic in various parts of tropical Asia, due to a
specific microörganism which produces chronic ulcers on the limbs. It
is often fatal. Called also Cochin China ulcer, Persian ulcer,
tropical ulcer, etc.

ADEPS
Ad"eps, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Animal fat; lard.

ADEPT
A*dept", n. Etym: [L. adeptus obtained (sc. artem), adipsci to arrive
ad + apisci to pursue. See Apt, and cf. Adapt.]

Defn: One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as,
adepts in philosophy.

ADEPT
A*dept", a.

Defn: Well skilled; completely versed; thoroughly proficient.
Beaus adept in everything profound. Cowper.

ADEPTION
A*dep"tion, n. Etym: [L. adeptio. See Adept, a.]

Defn: An obtaining; attainment. [Obs.]
In the wit and policy of the capitain consisteth the chief adeption
of the victory. Grafton.

ADEPTIST
A*dept"ist, n.

Defn: A skilled alchemist. [Obs.]

ADEPTNESS
A*dept"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adept; skill.

ADEQUACY
Ad"e*qua*cy, n. Etym: [See Adequate.]

Defn: The state or quality of being adequate, proportionate, or
sufficient; a sufficiency for a particular purpose; as, the adequacy
of supply to the expenditure.

ADEQUATE
Ad"e*quate, a. Etym: [L. adaequatus, p. p. of adaequare to make equal
to; ad + aequare to make equal, aequus equal. See Equal.]

Defn: Equal to some requirement; proportionate, or correspondent;
fully sufficient; as, powers adequate to a great work; an adequate
definition.
Ireland had no adequate champion. De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- Proportionate; commensurate; sufficient; suitable; competent;
capable.

ADEQUATE
Ad"e*quate, v. t. Etym: [See Adequate, a.]

1. To equalize; to make adequate. [R.] Fotherby.

2. To equal. [Obs.]
It [is] an impossibility for any creature to adequate God in his
eternity. Shelford.

ADEQUATELY
Ad"e*quate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adequate manner.

ADEQUATENESS
Ad"e*quate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adequate; suitableness; sufficiency;
adequacy.

ADEQUATION
Ad`e*qua"tion, n. Etym: [L. adaequatio.]

Defn: The act of equalizing; act or result of making adequate; an
equivalent. [Obs.] Bp. Barlow.

ADESMY
A*des"my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usually
entire.

ADESSENARIAN
Ad*es`se*na"ri*an, n. Etym: [Formed fr. L. adesse to be present; ad +
esse to be.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who held the real presence of Christ's body in the
eucharist, but not by transubstantiation.

ADFECTED
Ad*fect"ed, a. Etym: [L. adfectus or affectus. See Affect, v.] (Alg.)

Defn: See Affected, 5.

ADFILIATED
Ad*fil"i*a`ted, a.

Defn: See Affiliated. [Obs.]

ADFILIATION
Ad*fil`i*a"tion, n.

Defn: See Affiliation. [Obs.]

ADFLUXION
Ad*flux"ion, n.

Defn: See Affluxion.

ADHAMANT
Ad*ha"mant, a. Etym: [From L. adhamare to catch; ad + hamus hook.]

Defn: Clinging, as by hooks.

ADHERE
Ad*here", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Adhered; p. pr. & vb. n. Adhering.]
Etym: [L. adhaerere, adhaesum; ad + haerere to stick: cf. F. adhérer.
See Aghast.]

1. To stick fast or cleave, as a glutinous substance does; to become
joined or united; as, wax to the finger; the lungs sometimes adhere
to the pleura.

2. To hold, be attached, or devoted; to remain fixed, either by
personal union or conformity of faith, principle, or opinion; as, men
adhere to a party, a cause, a leader, a church.

3. To be consistent or coherent; to be in accordance; to agree. "Nor
time nor place did then adhere." Every thing adheres together." Shak.

Syn.
 -- To attach; stick; cleave; cling; hold

ADHERENCE
Ad*her"ence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adhérence, LL. adhaerentia.]

1. The quality or state of adhering.

2. The state of being fixed in attachment; fidelity; steady
attachment; adhesion; as, adherence to a party or to opinions.

Syn.
 -- Adherence, Adhesion. These words, which were once freely
interchanged, are now almost entirely separated. Adherence is no
longer used to denote physical union, but is applied, to mental
states or habits; as, a strict adherence to one's duty; close
adherence to the argument, etc. Adhesion is now confined chiefly to
the physical sense, except in the phrase "To give in one's adhesion
to a cause or a party."

ADHERENCY
Ad*her"en*cy, n.

1. The state or quality of being adherent; adherence. [R.]

2. That which adheres. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

ADHERENT
Ad*her"ent, a. Etym: [L. adhaerens, -entis, p. pr.: cf. F. adhérent.]

1. Sticking; clinging; adhering. Pope.

2. Attached as an attribute or circumstance.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Congenitally united with an organ of another kind, as calyx
with ovary, or stamens with petals.

ADHERENT
Ad*her"ent, n.

1. One who adheres; one who adheres; one who follows a leader, party,
or profession; a follower, or partisan; a believer in a particular
faith or church.

2. That which adheres; an appendage. [R.] Milton.

Syn.
 -- Follower; partisan; upholder; disciple; supporter; dependent;
ally; backer.

ADHERENTLY
Ad*her"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adherent manner.

ADHERER
Ad*her"er, n.

Defn: One who adheres; an adherent.

ADHESION
Ad*he"sion, n. Etym: [L. adhaesio, fr. adhaerere: cf. F. adhésion.]

1. The action of sticking; the state of being attached; intimate
union; as the adhesion of glue, or of parts united by growth, cement,
or the like.

2. Adherence; steady or firm attachment; fidelity; as, to error, to a
policy.
His adhesion to the Tories was bounded by his approbation of their
foreign policy. De Quincey.

3. Agreement to adhere; concurrence; assent.
To that treaty Spain and England gave in their adhesion. Macaulay.

4. (Physics)

Defn: The molecular attraction exerted between bodies in contact. See
Cohesion.

5. (Med.)

Defn: Union of surface, normally separate, by the formation of new
tissue resulting from an inflammatory process.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: The union of parts which are separate in other plants, or in
younger states of the same plant.

Syn.
 -- Adherence; union. See Adherence.

ADHESIVE
Ad*he"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. adhésif.]

1. Sticky; tenacious, as glutinous substances.

2. Apt or tending to adhere; clinging. Thomson. Adhesive attraction.
(Physics) See Attraction.
 -- Adhesive inflammation (Surg.), that kind of inflammation which
terminates in the reunion of divided parts without suppuration.
 -- Adhesive plaster, a sticking; a plaster containing resin, wax,
litharge, and olive oil.

ADHESIVELY
Ad*he"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adhesive manner.

ADHESIVENESS
Ad*he"sive*ness, n.

1. The quality of sticking or adhering; stickiness; tenacity of
union.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: Propensity to form and maintain attachments to persons, and to
promote social intercourse.

ADHIBIT
Ad*hib"it, v. t. Etym: [L. adhibitus, p. p. of adhibere to hold to;
ad + habere to have.]

1. To admit, as a person or thing; to take in. Muirhead.

2. To use or apply; to administer. Camden.

3. To attach; to affix. Alison.

ADHIBITION
Ad`hi*bi"tion, n. Etym: [L. adhibitio.]

Defn: The act of adhibiting; application; use. Whitaker.

AD HOMINEM
Ad hom"i*nem. Etym: [L., to the man.]

Defn: ` phrase applied to an appeal or argument addressed to the
principles, interests, or passions of a man.

ADHORT
Ad*hort", v. t. Etym: [L. adhortari. See Adhortation.]

Defn: To exhort; to advise. [Obs.] Feltham.

ADHORTATION
Ad`hor*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. adhortatio, fr. adhortari to advise; ad
+ hortari to exhort.]

Defn: Advice; exhortation. [Obs.] Peacham.

ADHORTATORY
Ad*hor"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing counsel or warning; hortatory; advisory. [Obs.]
Potter.

ADIABATIC
Ad`i*a*bat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Not giving out or receiving heat.
 -- Ad`i*a*bat`ic*al*ly, adv. Adiabatic line or curve, a curve
exhibiting the variations of pressure and volume of a fluid when it
expands without either receiving or giving out heat. Rankine.

ADIACTINIC
Ad`i*ac*tin"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + diactinic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Not transmitting the actinic rays.

ADIANTUM
Ad`i*an"tum, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of ferns, the leaves of which shed water; maidenhair.
Also, the black maidenhair, a species of spleenwort.

ADIAPHORISM
Ad`i*aph"o*rism, n.

Defn: Religious indifference.

ADIAPHORIST
Ad`i*aph"o*rist, n. Etym: [See Adiaphorous.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of the German Protestants who, with Melanchthon, held some
opinions and ceremonies to be indifferent or nonessential, which
Luther condemned as sinful or heretical. Murdock.

ADIAPHORISTIC
Ad`i*aph`o*ris"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to matters indifferent in faith and practice.
Shipley.

ADIAPHORITE
Ad`i*aph"o*rite, n.

Defn: Same as Adiaphorist.

ADIAPHOROUS
Ad`i*aph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Indifferent or neutral. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Incapable of doing either harm or good, as some medicines.
Dunglison.

ADIAPHORY
Ad`i*aph"o*ry, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Indifference. [Obs.]

ADIATHERMIC
Ad`i*a*ther"mic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Not pervious to heat.

ADIEU
A*dieu", interj. & adv. Etym: [OE. also adew, adewe, adue, F. dieu,
fr. L. ad to + deus God.]

Defn: Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting.

ADIEU
A*dieu", n.; pl. Adieus.

Defn: A farewell; commendation to the care of God at parting. Shak.

ADIGHT
A*dight", v. t. [p. p. Adight.] Etym: [Pref. a- (intensive) + OE.
dihten. See Dight.]

Defn: To set in order; to array; to attire; to deck, to dress. [Obs.]

AD INFINITUM
Ad in`fi*ni"tum. Etym: [L., to infinity.]

Defn: Without limit; endlessly.

AD INTERIM
Ad in"ter*imEtym: [L.]

Defn: Meanwhile; temporary.

ADIOS
A`dios", interj. [Sp., fr. L. ad to + deus god. Cf. Adieu.]

Defn: Adieu; farewell; good-by; -- chiefly used among Spanish-
speaking people.

 This word is often pronounced å*de"os, but the Spanish accent,
though weak, is on the final syllable.

ADIPESCENT
Ad`i*pes"cent, a. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat + -escent.]

Defn: Becoming fatty.

ADIPIC
A*dip"ic, a. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; --
applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitric
acid.

ADIPOCERATE
Ad`i*poc"er*ate, v. t.

Defn: To convert adipocere.

ADIPOCERATION
Ad`i*poc`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of changing into adipocere.

ADIPOCERE
Ad"i*po*cere`, n. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat + cera wax: cf. F.
adipocere.]

Defn: A soft, unctuous, or waxy substance, of a light brown color,
into which the fat and muscle tissue of dead bodies sometimes are
converted, by long immersion in water or by burial in moist places.
It is a result of fatty degeneration.

ADIPOCERIFORM
Ad`i*po*cer"i*form, a. Etym: [Adipocere + -form.]

Defn: Having the form or appearance of adipocere; as, an
adipoceriform tumor.

ADIPOCEROUS
Ad`i*poc"er*ous, a.

Defn: Like adipocere.

ADIPOGENOUS
Ad`i*pog"e*nous, a. [See Adipose; -genous.] (Med.)

Defn: Producing fat.

ADIPOLYSIS
Ad`i*pol"y*sis, n. [NL.; L. adeps, adipis, fat + Gr.  a loosing.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: The digestion of fats.

ADIPOLYTIC
Ad`i*po*lyt"ic, a. [L. adeps, adipis, fat + Gr.  to loose.] (Chem.)

Defn: Hydrolyzing fats; converting neutral fats into glycerin and
free fatty acids, esp. by the action of an enzyme; as, adipolytic
action.

ADIPOMA
Ad`i*po"ma, n.; L. pl. -mata (#). [NL. See Adipose; -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A mass of fat found internally; also, a fatty tumor. --
Ad`i*pom"a*tous, a.

ADIPOSE
Ad"i*pose`, a. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat, grease.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to animal fat; fatty. Adipose fin (Zoöl.), a
soft boneless fin.
 -- Adipose tissue (Anat.), that form of animal tissue which forms or
contains fat.

ADIPOSENESS; ADIPOSITY
Ad"i*pose`ness, Ad`i*pos"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being fat; fatness.

ADIPOUS
Ad"i*pous, a.

Defn: Fatty; adipose. [R.]

ADIPSOUS
A*dip"sous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Quenching thirst, as certain fruits.

ADIPSY
Ad"ip*sy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Absence of thirst.

ADIT
Ad"it, n. Etym: [L. aditus, fr. adire, , to go to; ad + ire to go.]

1. An entrance or passage. Specifically: The nearly horizontal
opening by which a mine is entered, or by which water and ores are
carried away; -- called also drift and tunnel.

2. Admission; approach; access. [R.]
Yourself and yours shall have Free adit. Tennyson.

ADJACENCE; ADJACENCY
Ad"ja"cence, Ad*ja"cen*cy,Etym: [Cf. LL. adjacentia.]

1. The state of being adjacent or contiguous; contiguity; as, the
adjacency of lands or buildings.

2. That which is adjacent.[R.] Sir T. Browne.

ADJACENT
Ad*ja"cent, a. Etym: [L. adjacens, -centis, p. pr. of adjacere to lie
near; ad + jac to lie: cf. F. adjacent.]

Defn: Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on;
as, a field adjacent to the highway. "The adjacent forest." B.
Jonson. Adjacent or contiguous angle. (Geom.) See Angle.

Syn.
 -- Adjoining; contiguous; near.
 -- Adjacent, Adjoining, Contiguous. Things are adjacent when they
lie close each other, not necessary in actual contact; as, adjacent
fields, adjacent villages, etc.
I find that all Europe with her adjacent isles is peopled with
Christians. Howell.
Things are adjoining when they meet at some line or point of
junction; as, adjoining farms, an adjoining highway. What is spoken
of as contiguous should touch with some extent of one side or the
whole of it; as, a row of contiguous buildings; a wood contiguous to
a plain.

ADJACENT
Ad*ja"cent, n.

Defn: That which is adjacent. [R.] Locke.

ADJACENTLY
Ad*ja"cent*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to be adjacent.

ADJECT
Ad*ject", v. t. Etym: [L. adjectus, p. p. of adjicere to throw to, to
add to; ad + ac to throw. See Jet a shooting forth.]

Defn: To add or annex; to join. Leland.

ADJECTION
Ad*jec"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjectio, fr. adjicere: cf. F. adjection.
See Adject.]

Defn: The act or mode of adding; also, the thing added. [R.] B.
Jonson.

ADJECTIONAL
Ad*jec"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adjection; that is, or may be, annexed. [R.]
Earle.

ADJECTITIOUS
Ad`jec*ti"tious, Etym: [L. adjectitius.]

Defn: Added; additional. Parkhurst.

ADJECTIVAL
Ad`jec*ti"val, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the relating to the adjective; of the nature
of an adjective; adjective. W. Taylor (1797)

ADJECTIVALLY
Ad`jec*ti"val*ly, adv.

Defn: As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively.

ADJECTIVE
Ad"jec*tive, a. Etym: [See Adjective, n.]

1. Added to a substantive as an attribute; of the nature of an
adjunct; as, an word sentence.

2. Not standing by itself; dependent. Adjective color, a color which
requires to be fixed by some mordant or base to give it permanency.

3. Relating to procedure. "The whole English law, substantive and
adjective." Macaulay.

ADJECTIVE
Ad"jec*tive, n. Etym: [L. adjectivum (sc. nomen), neut. of adjectivus
that is added, fr. adjicere: cf. F. adjectif. See Adject.]

1. (Gram.)

Defn: A word used with a noun, or substantive, to express a quality
of the thing named, or something attributed to it, or to limit or
define it, or to specify or describe a thing, as distinct from
something else. Thus, in phrase, "a wise ruler," wise is the
adjective, expressing a property of ruler.

2. A dependent; an accessory. Fuller.

ADJECTIVE
Ad"jec*tive, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjectived; p. pr. & vb. n.
Adjectiving.]

Defn: To make an adjective of; to form or change into an adjective.
[R.]
Language has as much occasion to adjective the distinct signification
of the verb, and to adjective also the mood, as it has to adjective
time. It has . . . adjectived all three. Tooke.

ADJECTIVELY
Ad"jec*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an adjective; as, a word used adjectively.

ADJOIN
Ad*join", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjoined; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjoining.]
Etym: [OE. ajoinen, OF. ajoindre, F. adjoindre, fr. L. adjungere; ad
+ jungere to join. See Join, and cf. Adjunct.]

Defn: To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contact
with; to attach; to append.
Corrections . . . should be, as remarks, adjoined by way of note.
Watts.

ADJOIN
Ad*join", v. i.

1. To lie or be next, or in contact; to be contiguous; as, the houses
adjoin.
When one man's land adjoins to another's. Blackstone.

Note: The construction with to, on, or with is obsolete or
obsolescent.

2. To join one's self. [Obs.]
She lightly unto him adjoined side to side. Spenser.

ADJOINANT
Ad*join"ant, a.

Defn: Contiguous. [Obs.] Carew.

ADJOINING
Ad*join"ing, a.

Defn: Joining to; contiguous; adjacent; as, an adjoining room. "The
adjoining fane." Dryden.
Upon the hills adjoining to the city. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Adjacent; contiguous; near; neighboring; abutting; bordering. See
Adjacent.

ADJOINT
Ad"joint, n.

Defn: An adjunct; a helper. [Obs.]

ADJOURN
Ad*journ, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjourned; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjourning.]
Etym: [OE. ajornen, OF. ajoiner, ajurner, F. ajourner; OF. a (L. ad)
+ jor, jur, jorn, F. jour, day, fr. L. diurnus belonging to the day,
fr. dies day. Cf. Journal, Journey.]

Defn: To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; to
postpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of the
meeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting;
to adjourn a debate.
It is a common practice to adjourn the reformation of their lives to
a further time. Barrow.
'Tis a needful fitness That we adjourn this court till further day.
Shak.

Syn.
 -- To delay; defer; postpone; put off; suspend.
 -- To Adjourn, Prorogue, Dissolve. These words are used in respect
to public bodies when they lay aside business and separate. Adjourn,
both in Great Britain and this country, is applied to all cases in
which such bodies separate for a brief period, with a view to meet
again. Prorogue is applied in Great Britain to that act of the
executive government, as the sovereign, which brings a session of
Parliament to a close. The word is not used in this country, but a
legislative body is said, in such a case, to adjourn sine die. To
dissolve is to annul the corporate existence of a body. In order to
exist again the body must be reconstituted.

ADJOURN
Ad*journ", v. i.

Defn: To suspend business for a time, as from one day to another, or
for a longer period, or indefinitely; usually, to suspend public
business, as of legislatures and courts, or other convened bodies;
as, congress adjourned at four o'clock; the court adjourned without
day.

ADJOURNAL
Ad*journ"al, n.

Defn: Adjournment; postponement. [R.] "An adjournal of the Diet." Sir
W. Scott.

ADJOURNMENT
Ad*journ"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. f. adjournement, OF. ajornement. See
Adjourn.]

1. The act of adjourning; the putting off till another day or time
specified, or without day.

2. The time or interval during which a public body adjourns its
sittings or postpones business.

ADJUDGE
Ad*judge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjudged; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjudging.]
Etym: [OE. ajugen, OF. ajugier, fr. L. adjudicare; ad + judicare to
judge. See Judge, and cf. Adjudicate.]

1. To award judicially in the case of a controverted question; as,
the prize was adjudged to the victor.

2. To determine in the exercise of judicial power; to decide or award
judicially; to adjudicate; as, the case was adjudged in the November
term.

3. To sentence; to condemn.
Without reprieve, adjudged to death For want of well pronouncing
Shibboleth. Milton.

4. To regard or hold; to judge; to deem.
He adjudged him unworthy of his friendship. Knolles.

Syn.
 -- To decree; award; determine; adjudicate; ordain; assign.

ADJUDGER
Ad*judg"er, n.

Defn: One who adjudges.

ADJUDGMENT
Ad*judg"ment, n.

Defn: The act of adjudging; judicial decision; adjudication. Sir W.
Temple.

ADJUDICATE
Ad*ju"di*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjudicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Adjudicating] Etym: [L. adjudicatus, p. p. of adjudicare. See
Adjudge.]

Defn: To adjudge; to try and determine, as a court; to settle by
judicial decree.

ADJUDICATE
Ad*ju"di*cate, v. i.

Defn: To come to a judicial decision; as, the court adjudicated upon
the case.

ADJUDICATION
Ad*ju`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjudicatio: cf. F. adjudication.]

1. The act of adjudicating; the act or process of trying and
determining judicially.

2. A deliberate determination by the judicial power; a judicial
decision or sentence. "An adjudication in favor of natural rights."
Burke.

3. (Bankruptcy practice)

Defn: The decision upon the question whether the debtor is a
bankrupt. Abbott.

4. (Scots Law)

Defn: A process by which land is attached security or in satisfaction
of a debt.

ADJUDICATIVE
Ad*ju"di*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Adjudicating.

ADJUDICATOR
Ad*ju"di*ca`tor, n.

Defn: One who adjudicates.

ADJUDICATURE
Ad*ju"di*ca*ture, n.

Defn: Adjudication.

ADJUGATE
Ad"ju*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. adjugatus, p. p. of adjugare; ad + jugum
a yoke.]

Defn: To yoke to. [Obs.]

ADJUMENT
Ad"ju*ment, n. Etym: [L. adjumentum, for adjuvamentum, fr. adjuvare
to help; ad + juvare to help.]

Defn: Help; support; also, a helper. [Obs.] Waterhouse.

ADJUNCT
Ad"junct`, a. Etym: [L. adjunctus, p. p. of adjungere. See Adjoin.]

Defn: Conjoined; attending; consequent.
Though that my death were adjunct to my act. Shak.
Adjunct notes (Mus.), short notes between those essential to the
harmony; auxiliary notes; passing notes.

ADJUNCT
Ad"junct`, n.

1. Something joined or added to another thing, but not essentially a
part of it.
Learning is but an adjunct to our self. Shak.

2. A person joined to another in some duty or service; a colleague;
an associate. Wotton.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: A word or words added to quality or amplify the force of other
words; as, the History of the American Revolution, where the words in
italics are the adjunct or adjuncts of "History."

4. (Metaph.)

Defn: A quality or property of the body or the mind, whether natural
or acquired; as, color, in the body, judgment in the mind.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: A key or scale closely related to another as principal; a
relative or attendant key. [R.] See Attendant keys, under Attendant,
a.

ADJUNCTION
Ad*junc"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjunctio, fr. adjungere: cf. F.
adjonction, and see Adjunct.]

Defn: The act of joining; the thing joined or added.

ADJUNCTIVE
Ad*junc"tive, a. Etym: [L. adjunctivus, fr. adjungere. See Adjunct.]

Defn: Joining; having the quality of joining; forming an adjunct.

ADJUNCTIVE
Ad*junc"tive, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, is joined.

ADJUNCTIVELY
Ad*junc"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adjunctive manner.

ADJUNCTLY
Ad*junct"ly, adv.

Defn: By way of addition or adjunct; in connection with.

ADJURATION
Ad`ju*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjuratio, fr. adjurare: cf. F.
adjuration. See Adjure.]

1. The act of adjuring; a solemn charging on oath, or under the
penalty of a curse; an earnest appeal.
What an accusation could not effect, an adjuration shall. Bp. Hall.

2. The form of oath or appeal.
Persons who . . . made use of prayer and adjurations. Addison.

ADJURATORY
Ad*ju"ra*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. adjuratorius.]

Defn: Containing an adjuration.

ADJURE
Ad*jure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjured; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjuring].
Etym: [L. adjurare, adjurdium, to swear to; later, to adjure: cf. F.
adjurer. See Jury.]

Defn: To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, or
under the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn or
impressive manner; to entreat earnestly.
Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before
the Lord, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho. Josh. vi.
26.
The high priest . . . said . . . I adjure thee by the living God,
that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ. Matt. xxvi. 63.
The commissioners adjured them not to let pass so favorable an
opportunity of securing their liberties. Marshall.

ADJURER
Ad*jur"er, n.

Defn: One who adjures.

ADJUST
Ad*just", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjusted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjusting.]
Etym: [OF. ajuster, ajoster (whence F. ajouter to add), LL. adjuxtare
to fit; fr. L. ad + juxta near; confused later with L. ad and justus
just, right, whence F. ajuster to adjust. See Just, v. t. and cf.
Adjute.]

1. To make exact; to fit; to make correspondent or conformable; to
bring into proper relations; as, to adjust a garment to the body, or
things to a standard.

2. To put in order; to regulate, or reduce to system.
Adjusting the orthography. Johnson.

3. To settle or bring to a satisfactory state, so that parties are
agreed in the result; as, to adjust accounts; the differences are
adjusted.

4. To bring to a true relative position, as the parts of an
instrument; to regulate for use; as, to adjust a telescope or
microscope.

Syn.
 -- To adapt; suit; arrange; regulate; accommodate; set right;
rectify; settle.

ADJUSTABLE
Ad*just"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adjusted.

ADJUSTAGE
Ad*just"age, n. Etym: [Cf. Ajutage.]

Defn: Adjustment. [R.]

ADJUSTER
Ad*just"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, adjusts.

ADJUSTING PLANE; ADJUSTING SURFACE
Adjusting plane or surface. (Aëronautics)

Defn: A small plane or surface, usually capable of adjustment but not
of manipulation, for preserving lateral balance in an aëroplane or
flying machine.

ADJUSTIVE
Ad*just"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to adjust. [R.]

ADJUSTMENT
Ad*just"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ajustement. See Adjust.]

1. The act of adjusting, or condition of being adjusted; act of
bringing into proper relations; regulation.
Success depends on the nicest and minutest adjustment of the parts
concerned. Paley.

2. (Law)

Defn: Settlement of claims; an equitable arrangement of conflicting
claims, as in set-off, contribution, exoneration, subrogation, and
marshaling. Bispham.

3. The operation of bringing all the parts of an instrument, as a
microscope or telescope, into their proper relative position for use;
the condition of being thus adjusted; as, to get a good adjustment;
to be in or out of adjustment.

Syn.
 -- Suiting; fitting; arrangement; regulation; settlement;
adaptation; disposition.

ADJUTAGE
Ad"ju*tage, n.

Defn: Same as Ajutage.

ADJUTANCY
Ad"ju*tan*cy, n. Etym: [See Adjutant.]

1. The office of an adjutant.

2. Skillful arrangement in aid; assistance.
It was, no doubt, disposed with all the adjutancy of definition and
division. Burke.

ADJUTANT
Ad"ju*tant, n. Etym: [L. adjutans, p. pr. of adjutare to help. See
Aid.]

1. A helper; an assistant.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A regimental staff officer, who assists the colonel, or
commanding officer of a garrison or regiment, in the details of
regimental and garrison duty. Adjutant general (a) (Mil.), the
principal staff officer of an army, through whom the commanding
general receives communications and issues military orders. In the U.
S. army he is brigadier general. (b) (Among the Jesuits), one of a
select number of fathers, who resided with the general of the order,
each of whom had a province or country assigned to his care.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of very large stork (Ciconia argala), a native of
India; -- called also the gigantic crane, and by the native name
argala. It is noted for its serpent-destroying habits.

ADJUTATOR
Ad"ju*ta`tor, n. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A corruption of Agitator.

ADJUTE
Ad*jute", v. t. Etym: [F. ajouter; confused with L. adjutare.]

Defn: To add. [Obs.]

ADJUTOR
Ad*ju"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. adjuvare. See Aid.]

Defn: A helper or assistant. [Archaic] Drayton.

ADJUTORY
Ad*ju"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. adjutorius.]

Defn: Serving to help or assist; helping. [Obs.]

ADJUTRIX
Ad*ju"trix, n. Etym: [L. See Adjutor.]

Defn: A female helper or assistant. [R.]

ADJUVANT
Ad"ju*vant, a. Etym: [L. adjuvans, p. pr. of adjuvare to aid: cf. F.
adjuvant. See Aid.]

Defn: Helping; helpful; assisting. [R.] "Adjuvant causes." Howell.

ADJUVANT
Ad"ju*vant, n.

1. An assistant. [R.] Yelverton.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An ingredient, in a prescription, which aids or modifies the
action of the principal ingredient.

ADLEGATION
Ad`le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. adlegatio, allegatio, a sending away; fr.
adlegare, allegare, to send away with a commission; ad in addition +
legare to send as ambassador. Cf. Allegation.]

Defn: A right formerly claimed by the states of the German Empire of
joining their own ministers with those of the emperor in public
treaties and negotiations to the common interest of the empire.
Encyc. Brit.

AD LIBITUM
Ad lib"i*tum

Defn: . At one's pleasure; as one wishes.

ADLOCUTION
Ad`lo*cu"tion, n.

Defn: See Allocution. [Obs.]

ADMARGINATE
Ad*mar"gin*ate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + margin.]

Defn: To write in the margin. [R.] Coleridge.

ADMAXILLARY
Ad*max"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. ad- + maxillary.] (Anat.)

Defn: Near to the maxilla or jawbone.

ADMEASURE
Ad*meas"ure, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OF. amesurer, LL. admensurare. See
Measure.]

1. To measure.

2. (Law)

Defn: To determine the proper share of, or the proper apportionment;
as, to admeasure dower; to admeasure common of pasture. Blackstone.

2. The measure of a thing; dimensions; size.

3. (Law)

Defn: Formerly, the adjustment of proportion, or ascertainment of
shares, as of dower or pasture held in common. This was by writ of
admeasurement, directed to the sheriff.

ADMEASURER
Ad*meas"ur*er, n.

Defn: One who admeasures.

ADMENSURATION
Ad*men`su*ra"tion, n. Etym: [LL. admensuratio; L. ad + mensurare to
measure. See Mensuration.]

Defn: Same as Admeasurement.

ADMINICLE
Ad*min"i*cle, n. Etym: [L. adminculum support, orig., that on which
the hand rests; ad + manus hand + dim. ending -culym.]

1. Help or support; an auxiliary. Grote.

2. (Law)

Defn: Corroborative or explanatory proof.

Note: In Scots law, any writing tending to establish the existence or
terms of a lost deed. Bell.

ADMINICULAR
Ad`mi*nic"u*lar, a.

Defn: Supplying help; auxiliary; corroborative; explanatory; as,
adminicular evidence. H. Spencer.

ADMINICULARY
Ad`mi*nic"u*la*ry, a.

Defn: Adminicular.

ADMINISTER
Ad*min"is*ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Administered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Administering.] Etym: [OE. aministren, OF. aministrer, F. administer,
fr. L. administrare; ad + ministrare to serve. See Minister.]

1. To manage or conduct, as public affairs; to direct or superintend
the execution, application, or conduct of; as, to administer the
government or the state.
For forms of government let fools contest: Whate'er is best
administered is best. Pope.

2. To dispense; to serve out; to supply; execute; as, to administer
relief, to administer the sacrament.
[Let zephyrs] administer their tepid, genial airs. Philips.
Justice was administered with an exactness and purity not before
known. Macaulay.

3. To apply, as medicine or a remedy; to give, as a dose or something
beneficial or suitable. Extended to a blow, a reproof, etc.
A noxious drug had been administered to him. Macaulay.

4. To tender, as an oath.
Swear . . . to keep the oath that we administer. Shak.

5. (Law)

Defn: To settle, as the estate of one who dies without a will, or
whose will fails of an executor.

Syn.
 -- To manage; conduct; minister; supply; dispense; give out;
distribute; furnish.

ADMINISTER
Ad*min"is*ter, v. i.

1. To contribute; to bring aid or supplies; to conduce; to minister.
A fountain . . . administers to the pleasure as well as the plenty of
the place. Spectator.

2. (Law)

Defn: To perform the office of administrator; to act officially; as,
A administers upon the estate of B.

ADMINISTER
Ad*min"is*ter, n.

Defn: Administrator. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADMINISTERIAL
Ad*min`is*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to administration, or to the executive part of
government.

ADMINISTRABLE
Ad*min"is*tra*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being administered; as, an administrable law.

ADMINISTRANT
Ad*min"is*trant, a. Etym: [F., p. pr. of administrer. See
Administer.]

Defn: Executive; acting; managing affairs.
 -- n.

Defn: One who administers.

ADMINISTRATE
Ad*min"is*trate, v. t. Etym: [L. administratus, p. p. of
administrare.]

Defn: To administer. [R.] Milman.

ADMINISTRATION
Ad*min`is*tra"tion, n. Etym: [OE. administracioun, L. administratio:
cf. F. administration.]

1. The act of administering; government of public affairs; the
service rendered, or duties assumed, in conducting affairs; the
conducting of any office or employment; direction; management.
His financial administration was of a piece with his military
administration. Macaulay.

2. The executive part of government; the persons collectively who are
intrusted with the execution of laws and the superintendence of
public affairs; the chief magistrate and his cabinet or council; or
the council, or ministry, alone, as in Great Britain.
A mild and popular administration. Macaulay.
The administration has been opposed in parliament. Johnson.

3. The act of administering, or tendering something to another;
dispensation; as, the administration of a medicine, of an oath, of
justice, or of the sacrament.

4. (Law)
(a) The management and disposal, under legal authority, of the estate
of an intestate, or of a testator having no competent executor.
(b) The management of an estate of a deceased person by an executor,
the strictly corresponding term execution not being in use.
Administration with the will annexed, administration granted where
the testator has appointed no executor, or where his appointment of
an executor for any cause has failed, as by death, incompetency,
refusal to act, etc.

Syn.
 -- Conduct; management; direction; regulation; execution;
dispensation; distribution.

ADMINISTRATIVE
Ad*min"is*tra`tive, a. Etym: [L. administrativus: cf. F.
administratif.]

Defn: Pertaining to administration; administering; executive; as, an
administrative body, ability, or energy.
 -- Ad*min"is*tra`tive*ly, adv.

ADMINISTRATOR
Ad*min`is*tra"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who administers affairs; one who directs, manages, executes,
or dispenses, whether in civil, judicial, political, or
ecclesiastical affairs; a manager.

2. (Law)

Defn: A man who manages or settles the estate of an intestate, or of
a testator when there is no competent executor; one to whom the right
of administration has been committed by competent authority.

ADMINISTRATORSHIP
Ad*min`is*tra"tor*ship, n.

Defn: The position or office of an administrator.

ADMINISTRATRIX
Ad*min`is*tra"trix, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A woman who administers; esp., one who administers the estate
of an intestate, or to whom letters of administration have been
granted; a female administrator.

ADMIRABILITY
Ad`mi*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. admirabilitac.]

Defn: Admirableness. [R.] Johnson.

ADMIRABLE
Ad"mi*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. admirabilis: cf. F. admirable.]

1. Fitted to excite wonder; wonderful; marvelous. [Obs.]
In man there is nothing admirable but his ignorance and weakness.
Jer. Taylor.

2. Having qualities to excite wonder united with approbation;
deserving the highest praise; most excellent; -- used of persons or
things. "An admirable machine." "Admirable fortitude." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Wonderful; marvelous; surprising; excellent; delightful;
praiseworthy.

ADMIRABLENESS
Ad"mi*ra*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being admirable; wonderful excellence.

ADMIRABLY
Ad"mi*ra*bly, adv.

Defn: In an admirable manner.

ADMIRAL
Ad"mi*ral, n. Etym: [OE. amiral, admiral, OF. amiral, ultimately fr.
Ar. amir-al-bahr commander of the sea; Ar. amir is commander, al is
the Ar. article, and amir-al, heard in different titles, was taken as
one word. Early forms of the word show confusion with L. admirabilis
admirable, fr. admirari to admire. It is said to have been introduced
into Europe by the Genoese or Venetians, in the 12th or 13th century.
Cf. Ameer, Emir.]

1. A naval officer of the highest rank; a naval officer of high rank,
of which there are different grades. The chief gradations in rank are
admiral, vice admiral, and rear admiral. The admiral is the commander
in chief of a fleet or of fleets.

2. The ship which carries the admiral; also, the most considerable
ship of a fleet.
Like some mighty admiral, dark and terrible, bearing down upon his
antagonist with all his canvas straining to the wind, and all his
thunders roaring from his broadsides. E. Everett.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A handsome butterfly (Pyrameis Atalanta) of Europe and America.
The larva feeds on nettles. Admiral shell (Zoöl.), the popular name
of an ornamental cone shell (Conus admiralis). Lord High Admiral, a
great officer of state, who (when this rare dignity is conferred) is
at the head of the naval administration of Great Britain.

ADMIRALSHIP
Ad"mi*ral*ship, n.

Defn: The office or position oaf an admiral; also, the naval skill of
an admiral.

ADMIRALTY
Ad"mi*ral*ty, n.; pl. Admiralties. Etym: [F. amirauté, for an older
amiralté, office of admiral, fr. LL. admiralitas. See Admiral.]

1. The office or jurisdiction of an admiral. Prescott.

2. The department or officers having authority over naval affairs
generally.

3. The court which has jurisdiction of maritime questions and
offenses.

Note: In England, admiralty jurisdiction was formerly vested in the
High Court of Admiralty, which was held before the Lord High Admiral,
or his deputy, styled the Judge of the Admiralty; but admiralty
jurisdiction is now vested in the probate, divorce, and admiralty
division of the High Justice. In America, there are no admiralty
courts distinct from others, but admiralty jurisdiction is vested in
the district courts of the United States, subject to revision by the
circuit courts and the Supreme Court of the United States. Admiralty
jurisprudence has cognizance of maritime contracts and torts,
collisions at sea, cases of prize in war, etc., and in America,
admiralty jurisdiction is extended to such matters, arising out of
the navigation of any of the public waters, as the Great Lakes and
rivers.

4. The system of jurisprudence of admiralty courts.

5. The building in which the lords of the admiralty, in England,
transact business.

ADMIRANCE
Ad*mir"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. admirance.]

Defn: Admiration. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADMIRATION
Ad`mi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. admiratio. See Admire.]

1. Wonder; astonishment. [Obs.]
Season your admiration for a while. Shak.

2. Wonder mingled with approbation or delight; an emotion excited by
a person or thing possessed of wonderful or high excellence; as,
admiration of a beautiful woman, of a landscape, of virtue.

3. Cause of admiration; something to excite wonder, or pleased
surprise; a prodigy.
Now, good Lafeu, bring in the admiration. Shak.
Note of admiration, the mark (!), called also exclamation point.

Syn.
 -- Wonder; approval; appreciation; adoration; reverence; worship.

ADMIRATIVE
Ad*mir"a*tive, a.

Defn: Relating to or expressing admiration or wonder. [R.] Earle.

ADMIRE
Ad*mire", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Admired; p. pr. & vb. n. Admiring.]
Etym: [F. admirer, fr. L. admirari; ad + mirari to wonder, for
smirari, akin to Gr. smi, and E. smile.]

1. To regard with wonder or astonishment; to view with surprise; to
marvel at. [Archaic]
Examples rather to be admired than imitated. Fuller.

2. To regard with wonder and delight; to look upon with an elevated
feeling of pleasure, as something which calls out approbation,
esteem, love, or reverence; to estimate or prize highly; as, to
admire a person of high moral worth, to admire a landscape.
Admired as heroes and as gods obeyed. Pope.

Note: Admire followed by the infinitive is obsolete or colloquial;
as, I admire to see a man consistent in his conduct.

Syn.
 -- To esteem; approve; delight in.

ADMIRE
Ad*mire", v. i.

Defn: To wonder; to marvel; to be affected with surprise; --
sometimes with at.
To wonder at Pharaoh, and even admire at myself. Fuller.

ADMIRED
Ad*mired", a.

1. Regarded with wonder and delight; highly prized; as, an admired
poem.

2. Wonderful; also, admirable. [Obs.] "Admired disorder." " Admired
Miranda." Shak.

ADMIRER
Ad*mir"er, n.

Defn: One who admires; one who esteems or loves greatly. Cowper.

ADMIRING
Ad*mir"ing, a.

Defn: Expressing admiration; as, an admiring glance.
 -- Ad*mir"ing*ly, adv. Shak.

ADMISSIBILITY
Ad*mis`si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. admissibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being admissible; admissibleness; as, the
admissibility of evidence.

ADMISSIBLE
Ad*mis"si*ble, a. Etym: [F. admissible, LL. admissibilis. See Admit.]

Defn: Entitled to be admitted, or worthy of being admitted; that may
be allowed or conceded; allowable; as, the supposition is hardly
admissible.
 -- Ad*mis"si*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ad*mis"si*bly, adv.

ADMISSION
Ad*mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. admissio: cf. F. admission. See Admit.]

1. The act or practice of admitting.

2. Power or permission to enter; admittance; entrance; access; power
to approach.
What numbers groan for sad admission there! Young.

3. The granting of an argument or position not fully proved; the act
of acknowledging something
The too easy admission of doctrines. Macaulay.

4. (Law)

Defn: Acquiescence or concurrence in a statement made by another, and
distinguishable from a confession in that an admission presupposes
prior inquiry by another, but a confession may be made without such
inquiry.

5. A fact, point, or statement admitted; as, admission made out of
court are received in evidence.

6. (Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: Declaration of the bishop that he approves of the presentee as
a fit person to serve the cure of the church to which he is
presented. Shipley.

Syn.
 -- Admittance; concession; acknowledgment; concurrence; allowance.
See Admittance.

ADMISSIVE
Ad*mis"sive, a.

Defn: Implying an admission; tending to admit. [R.] Lamb.

ADMISSORY
Ad*mis"so*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to admission.

ADMIT
Ad*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Admitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Admitting.]
Etym: [OE. amitten, L. admittere, admissum; ad + mittere to send: cf.
F. admettre, OF. admettre, OF. ametre. See Missile.]

1. To suffer to enter; to grant entrance, whether into a place, or
into the mind, or consideration; to receive; to take; as, they were
into his house; to admit a serious thought into the mind; to admit
evidence in the trial of a cause.

2. To give a right of entrance; as, a ticket one into a playhouse.

3. To allow (one) to enter on an office or to enjoy a privilege; to
recognize as qualified for a franchise; as, to admit an attorney to
practice law; the prisoner was admitted to bail.

4. To concede as true; to acknowledge or assent to, as an allegation
which it is impossible to deny; to own or confess; as, the argument
or fact is admitted; he admitted his guilt.

5. To be capable of; to permit; as, the words do not admit such a
construction. In this sense, of may be used after the verb, or may be
omitted.
Both Houses declared that they could admit of no treaty with the
king. Hume.

ADMITTABLE
Ad*mit"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Admissible. Sir T. Browne.

ADMITTANCE
Ad*mit"tance, n.

1. The act of admitting.

2. Permission to enter; the power or right of entrance; also, actual
entrance; reception.
To gain admittance into the house. South.
He desires admittance to the king. Dryden.
To give admittance to a thought of fear. Shak.

3. Concession; admission; allowance; as, the admittance of an
argument. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

4. Admissibility. [Obs.] Shak.

5. (Eng. Law)

Defn: The act of giving possession of a copyhold estate. Bouvier.

Syn.
 -- Admission; access; entrance; initiation.
 -- Admittance, Admission. These words are, to some extent, in a
state of transition and change. Admittance is now chiefly confined to
its primary sense of access into some locality or building. Thus we
see on the doors of factories, shops, etc. "No admittance." Its
secondary or moral sense, as "admittance to the church," is almost
entirely laid aside. Admission has taken to itself the secondary or
figurative senses; as, admission to the rights of citizenship;
admission to the church; the admissions made by one of the parties in
a dispute. And even when used in its primary sense, it is not
identical with admittance. Thus, we speak of admission into a
country, territory, and other larger localities, etc., where
admittance could not be used. So, when we speak of admission to a
concert or other public assembly, the meaning is not perhaps exactly
that of admittance, viz., access within the walls of the building,
but rather a reception into the audience, or access to the
performances. But the lines of distinction on this subject are one
definitely drawn.

ADMITTATUR
Ad`mit*ta"tur, n. Etym: [L., let him be admitted.]

Defn: The certificate of admission given in some American colleges.

ADMITTED; ADMITTEDLY
Ad*mit"ted, a.

Defn: Received as true or valid; acknowledged.
 -- Ad*mit"ted*ly adv.

Defn: Confessedly.

ADMITTER
Ad*mit"ter, n.

Defn: One who admits.

ADMIX
Ad*mix", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + mix: cf. L. admixtus, p. p. of
admiscere. See Mix.]

Defn: To mingle with something else; to mix. [R.]

ADMIXTION
Ad*mix"tion, n. Etym: [L. admixtio.]

Defn: A mingling of different things; admixture. Glanvill.

ADMIXTURE
Ad*mix"ture, n. Etym: [L. admiscere, admixtum, to admix; ad + miscere
to mix. See Mix.]

1. The act of mixing; mixture.

2. The compound formed by mixing different substances together.

3. That which is mixed with anything.

ADMONISH
Ad*mon"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Admonished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Admonishing.] Etym: [OE. amonesten, OF. amonester, F. admonester, fr.
a supposed LL. admonesstrare, fr. L. admonere to remind, warn; ad +
monere to warn. See Monition.]

1. To warn or notify of a fault; to reprove gently or kindly, but
seriously; to exhort. "Admonish him as a brother." 2 Thess. iii. 15.

2. To counsel against wrong practices; to cation or advise; to warn
against danger or an offense; -- followed by of, against, or a
subordinate clause.
Admonishing one another in psalms and hymns. Col. iii. 16.
I warned thee, I admonished thee, foretold The danger, and the
lurking enemy. Milton.

3. To instruct or direct; to inform; to notify.
Moses was admonished of God, when he was about to make the
tabernacle. Heb. viii. 5.

ADMONISHER
Ad*mon"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who admonishes.

ADMONISHMENT
Ad*mon"ish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. amonestement, admonestement.]

Defn: Admonition. [R.] Shak.

ADMONITION
Ad`mo*ni"tion, n. Etym: [OE. amonicioun, OF. amonition, F.
admonition, fr. L. admonitio, fr. admonere. See Admonish.]

Defn: Gentle or friendly reproof; counseling against a fault or
error; expression of authoritative advice; friendly caution or
warning.

Syn.
 -- Admonition, Reprehension, Reproof. Admonition is prospective, and
relates to moral delinquencies; its object is to prevent further
transgression. Reprehension and reproof are retrospective, the former
being milder than the latter. A person of any age or station may be
liable to reprehension in case of wrong conduct; but reproof is the
act of a superior. It is authoritative fault-finding or censure
addressed to children or to inferiors.

ADMONITIONER
Ad`mo*ni"tion*er, n.

Defn: Admonisher. [Obs.]

ADMONITIVE
Ad*mon"i*tive, a.

Defn: Admonitory. [R.] Barrow.
 -- Ad*mon"i*tive*ly, adv.

ADMONITOR
Ad*mon"i*tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Admonisher; monitor.
Conscience is at most times a very faithful and prudent admonitor.
Shenstone.

ADMONITORIAL
Ad*mon`i*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Admonitory. [R.] "An admonitorial tone." Dickens.

ADMONITORY
Ad*mon"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. admonitorius.]

Defn: That conveys admonition; warning or reproving; as, an
admonitory glance.
 -- Ad*mon"i*to*ri*ly,, adv.

ADMONITRIX
Ad*mon"i*trix, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A female admonitor.

ADMORTIZATION
Ad*mor`ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [LL. admortizatio. Cf. Amortization.]
(Law)

Defn: The reducing or lands or tenements to mortmain. See Mortmain.

ADMOVE
Ad*move", v. t. Etym: [L. admovere. See Move.]

Defn: To move or conduct to or toward. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ADNASCENT
Ad*nas"cent, a. Etym: [L. adnascens, p. pr. of adnasci to be born,
grow.]

Defn: Growing to or on something else. "An adnascent plant." Evelyn.

ADNATE
Ad"nate, a. Etym: [L. adnatus, p. p. of adnasci. See Adnascent, and
cf. Agnate.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: Grown to congenitally.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing together; -- said only of organic cohesion of unlike
parts.
An anther is adnate when fixed by its whole length to the filament.
Gray.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Growing with one side adherent to a stem; -- a term applied to
the lateral zooids of corals and other compound animals.

ADNATION
Ad*na"tion, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The adhesion or cohesion of different floral verticils or sets
of organs.

ADNOMINAL
Ad*nom"i*nal, a. Etym: [L. ad + nomen noun.] (Gram.)

Defn: Pertaining to an adnoun; adjectival; attached to a noun. Gibbs.
 -- Ad*nom"i*nal*ly, adv.

ADNOUN
Ad"noun`, n. Etym: [Pref. ad- + noun.] (Gram.)

Defn: An adjective, or attribute. [R.] Coleridge.

ADNUBILATED
Ad*nu"bi*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. adnubilatus, p. p. of adnubilare.]

Defn: Clouded; obscured. [R.]

ADO
A*do", (1) v. inf., (2) n. Etym: [OE. at do, northern form for to do.
Cf. Affair.]

1. To do; in doing; as, there is nothing. "What is here ado" J.
Newton.

2. Doing; trouble; difficulty; troublesome business; fuss; bustle;
as, to make a great ado about trifles.
With much ado, he partly kept awake. Dryden.
Let's follow to see the end of this ado. Shak.

ADOBE
A*do"be, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective,
as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico.

ADOLESCENCE
Ad`o*les"cence, n. Etym: [Fr., fr. L. adolescentia.]

Defn: The state of growing up from childhood to manhood or womanhood;
youth, or the period of life between puberty and maturity, generally
considered to be, in the male sex, from fourteen to twenty-one.
Sometimes used with reference to the lower animals.

ADOLESCENCY
Ad`o*les"cen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being adolescent; youthfulness.

ADOLESCENT
Ad`o*les"cent, a. Etym: [L. adolescens, p. pr. of adolescere to grow
up to; ad + the inchoative olescere to grow: cf. F. adolescent. See
Adult.]

Defn: Growing; advancing from childhood to maturity.
Schools, unless discipline were doubly strong, Detain their
adolescent charge too long. Cowper.

ADOLESCENT
Ad`o*les"cent, n.

Defn: A youth.

ADONAI
Ad`o*na"i, n. [Heb. adonai, lit., my lord.]

Defn: A Hebrew name for God, usually translated in the Old Testament
by the word "Lord".

 The later Jews used its vowel points to fill out the tetragrammaton
Yhvh, or Ihvh, "the incommunicable name," and in reading substituted
"Adonai".

ADONEAN
Ad`o*ne"an, a. Etym: [L. Adon.]

Defn: Pertaining to Adonis; Adonic. "Fair Adonean Venus." Faber.

ADONIC
A*don"ic, a. Etym: [F. adonique: cf. L. Adonius.]

Defn: Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty.
 -- n.

Defn: An Adonic verse. Adonic verse, a verse consisting of a dactyl
and spondee.

ADONIS
A*do"nis, n. Etym: [L., gr. Gr.

1. (Gr. Myth.)

Defn: A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty. He was killed in the
chase by a wild boar.

2. A preëminently beautiful young man; a dandy.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the family Ranunculaceæ, containing the
pheasaut's eye (Adonis autumnalis); -- named from Adonis, whose blood
was fabled to have stained the flower.

ADONIST
A*do"nist, n. Etym: [Heb. my Lords.]

Defn: One who maintains that points of the Hebrew word translated
"Jehovah" are really the vowel points of the word "Adonai." See
Jehovist.

ADONIZE
Ad"o*nize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. adoniser, fr. Adonis.]

Defn: To beautify; to dandify.
I employed three good hours at least in adjusting and adonozing
myself. Smollett.

ADOOR; ADOORS
A*door, A*doors,

Defn: At the door; of the door; as, out adoors. Shak.
I took him in adoors. Vicar's Virgil (1630).

ADOPT
A*dopt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adopted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adopting.]
Etym: [L. adoptare; ad + optare to choose, desire: cf. F. adopter.
See Option.]

1. To take by choice into relationship, as, child, heir, friend,
citizen, etc. ; esp. to take voluntarily (a child of other parents)
to be in the place of, or as, one's own child.

2. To take or receive as one's own what is not so naturally; to
select and take or approve; as, to adopt the view or policy of
another; these resolutions were adopted.

ADOPTABLE
A*dopt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adopted.

ADOPTED
A*dopt"ed, a.

Defn: Taken by adoption; taken up as one's own; as, an adopted son,
citizen, country, word.
 -- A*dopt"ed*ly, adv.

ADOPTER
A*dopt"er, n.

1. One who adopts.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A receiver, with two necks, opposite to each other, one of
which admits the neck of a retort, and the other is joined to another
receiver. It is used in distillations, to give more space to elastic
vapors, to increase the length of the neck of a retort, or to unite
two vessels whose openings have different diameters. [Written also
adapter.]

ADOPTION
A*dop"tion, n. Etym: [L. adoptio, allied to adoptare to adopt: cf. F.
adoption.]

1. The act of adopting, or state of being adopted; voluntary
acceptance of a child of other parents to be the same as one's own
child.

2. Admission to a more intimate relation; reception; as, the adoption
of persons into hospitals or monasteries, or of one society into
another.

3. The choosing and making that to be one's own which originally was
not so; acceptance; as, the adoption of opinions. Jer. Taylor.

ADOPTIONIST
A*dop"tion*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect which maintained that Christ was the Son of God
not by nature but by adoption.

ADOPTIOUS
A*dop"tious, a.

Defn: Adopted. [Obs.]

ADOPTIVE
A*dopt"ive, a. Etym: [L. adoptivus: cf. F. adoptif.]

Defn: Pertaining to adoption; made or acquired by adoption; fitted to
adopt; as, an adoptive father, an child; an adoptive language.
 -- A*dopt"ive*ly, adv.

ADORABILITY
A*dor`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Adorableness.

ADORABLE
A*dor"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. adorabilis, fr. adorare: cf. F. adorable.]

1. Deserving to be adored; worthy of divine honors.
The adorable Author of Christianity. Cheyne.

2. Worthy of the utmost love or respect.

ADORABLENESS
A*dor"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adorable, or worthy of adoration. Johnson.

ADORABLY
A*dor"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an adorable manner.

ADORATION
Ad`o*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. adoratio, fr. adorare: cf. F. adoration.]

1. The act of playing honor to a divine being; the worship paid to
God; the act of addressing as a god.
The more immediate objects of popular adoration amongst the heathens
were deified human beings. Farmer.

2. Homage paid to one in high esteem; profound veneration; intense
regard and love; fervent devotion.

3. A method of electing a pope by the expression of homage from two
thirds of the conclave.
[Pole] might have been chosen on the spot by adoration. Froude.

ADORE
A*dore", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adored; p. pr. & vb. n. Adoring.] Etym:
[OE. aouren, anouren, adoren, OF. aorer, adorer, F. adorer, fr. L.
adorare; ad + orare to speak, pray, os, oris, mouth. In OE. confused
with honor, the French prefix a- being confused with OE. a, an, on.
See Oral.]

1. To worship with profound reverence; to pay divine honors to; to
honor as deity or as divine.
Bishops and priests, . . . bearing the host, which he [James adored.
Smollett.

2. To love in the highest degree; to regard with the utmost esteem
and affection; to idolize.
The great mass of the population abhorred Popery and adored Montouth.
Macaulay.

ADORE
A*dore", v. t.

Defn: To adorn. [Obs.]
Congealed little drops which do the morn adore. Spenser.

ADOREMENT
A*dore"ment, n.

Defn: The act of adoring; adoration. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ADORER
A*dor"er, n.

Defn: One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly;
an ardent admirer. "An adorer of truth." Clarendon.
I profess myself her adorer, not her friend. Shak.

ADORINGLY
A*dor"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With adoration.

ADORN
A*dorn", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adorned; p. pr. & vb. n. Adorning.]
Etym: [OE. aournen, anournen, adornen, OF. aorner, fr. L. aaornare;
ad + ornare to furnish, embellish. See Adore, Ornate.]

Defn: To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off to
advantage; to render pleasing or attractive.
As a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. Isa. lxi. 10.
At church, with meek and unaffected grace, His looks adorned the
venerable place. Goldsmith.

Syn.
 -- To deck; decorate; embellish; ornament; beautify; grace; dignify;
exalt; honor.
 -- To Adorn, Ornament, Decorate, Embellish. We decorate and ornament
by putting on some adjunct which is attractive or beautiful, and
which serves to heighten the general effect. Thus, a lady's head-
dress may be ornament or decorated with flowers or jewelry; a hall
may be decorated or ornament with carving or gilding, with wreaths of
flowers, or with hangings. Ornament is used in a wider sense than
decorate. To embellish is to beautify or ornament richly, not so much
by mere additions or details as by modifying the thing itself as a
whole. It sometimes means gaudy and artificial decoration. We
embellish a book with rich engravings; a style is embellished with
rich and beautiful imagery; a shopkeeper embellishes his front window
to attract attention. Adorn is sometimes identical with decorate, as
when we say, a lady was adorned with jewels. In other cases, it seems
to imply something more. Thus, we speak of a gallery of paintings as
adorned with the works of some of the great masters, or adorned with
noble statuary and columns. Here decorated and ornamented would
hardly be appropriate. There is a value in these works of genius
beyond mere show and ornament. Adorn may be used of what is purely
moral; as, a character adorned with every Christian grace. Here
neither decorate, nor ornament, nor embellish is proper.

ADORN
A*dorn", n.

Defn: Adornment. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADORN
A*dorn", a.

Defn: Adorned; decorated. [Obs.] Milton.

ADORNATION
Ad`or*na"tion, n.

Defn: Adornment. [Obs.]

ADORNER
A*dorn"er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, adorns; a beautifier.

ADORNINGLY
A*dorn"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By adorning; decoratively.

ADORNMENT
A*dorn"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. adornement. See Adorn.]

Defn: An adorning; an ornament; a decoration.

ADOSCULATION
Ad*os"cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. adosculari, adosculatum, to kiss. See
Osculate.] (Biol.)

Defn: Impregnation by external contact, without intromission.

ADOWN
A*down", adv. Etym: [OE. adun, adoun, adune. AS. of dune off the
hill. See Down.]

Defn: From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or on
the ground. [Archaic] "Thrice did she sink adown." Spenser.

ADOWN
A*down", prep.

Defn: Down. [Archaic & Poetic]
Her hair adown her shoulders loosely lay displayed. Prior.

ADPRESS
Ad*press", v. t. Etym: [L. adpressus, p. p. of adprimere.]

Defn: See Appressed.
 -- Ad*pressed",, a.

ADRAD
A*drad", p. a. Etym: [P. p. of adread.]

Defn: Put in dread; afraid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ADRAGANT
Ad"ra*gant, n. Etym: [F., a corruption of tragacanth.]

Defn: Gum tragacanth. Brande & C.

ADREAD
A*dread", v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. andrædan, ondræ; pref. a- (for and
against) + dræden to dread. See Dread.]

Defn: To dread. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

ADREAMED
A*dreamed", p. p.

Defn: Visited by a dream; -- used in the phrase, To be adreamed, to
dream. [Obs.]

ADRENAL
Ad*re"nal, a. Etym: [Pref. ad- + renal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Suprarenal.

ADRENALINE; ADRENALIN
Ad*re"nal*ine, n. Also Ad*re"nal*in. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline substance, C9H13O3N, obtained from suprarenal
extract, of which it is regarded as the active principle. It is used
in medicine as a stimulant and hemostatic.

ADRIAN
A"dri*an, a. Etym: [L. Hadrianus.]

Defn: Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows.

ADRIATIC
A`dri*at"ic, a. Etym: [L. Adriaticus, Hadriaticus, fr. Adria or
Hadria, a town of the Veneti.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sea so named, the northwestern part of
which is known as the Gulf of Venice.

ADRIFT
A*drift", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- (for on) + drift.]

Defn: Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy of
wind and waves. Also fig.
So on the sea shall be set adrift. Dryden.
Were from their daily labor turned adrift. Wordsworth.

ADRIP
A*drip", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- in + drip.]

Defn: In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip. D. G. Mitchell.

ADROGATE
Ad"ro*gate, v. t. Etym: [See Arrogate.] (Rom. Law)

Defn: To adopt (a person who is his own master).

ADROGATION
Ad`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. adrogatio, arrogatio, fr. adrogare. See
Arrogate.] (Rom. Law)

Defn: A kind of adoption in ancient Rome. See Arrogation.

ADROIT
A*droit", a. Etym: [F. adroit; à (L. ad) = droit straight, right, fr.
L. directus, p. p. of dirigere. See Direct.]

Defn: Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of the
mental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding danger
or escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- applied
to persons and to acts; as, an adroit mechanic, an adroit reply.
"Adroit in the application of the telescope and quadrant." Horsley.
"He was adroit in intrigue." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Dexterous; skillful; expert; ready; clever; deft; ingenious;
cunning; ready-witted.

ADROITLY
A*droit"ly, adv.

Defn: In an adroit manner.

ADROITNESS
A*droit"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adroit; skill and readiness; dexterity.
Adroitness was as requisite as courage. Motley.

Syn.
 -- See Skill.

ADRY
A*dry", a. Etym: [Pref. a- (for on) + dry.]

Defn: In a dry or thirsty condition. "A man that is adry." Burton.