

BRANCHER
Branch"er, n.

1. That which shoots forth branches; one who shows growth in various
directions.

2. (Falconry)

Defn: A young hawk when it begins to leave the nest and take to the
branches.

BRANCHERY
Branch"er*y, n.

Defn: A system of branches.

BRANCHIA
Bran"chi*a, n.; pl. Branchiæ. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A gill; a respiratory organ for breathing the air contained in
water, such as many aquatic and semiaquatic animals have.

BRANCHIAL
Bran"chi*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to branchiæ or gills. Branchial arches, the
bony or cartilaginous arches which support the gills on each side of
the throat of fishes and amphibians. See Illustration in Appendix.
 -- Branchial clefts, the openings between the branchial arches
through which water passes.

BRANCHIATE
Bran"chi*ate, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Furnished with branchiæ; as, branchiate segments.

BRANCHIFEROUS
Bran*chif"er*ous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Having gills; branchiate; as, branchiferous gastropods.

BRANCHINESS
Branch"i*ness, n.

Defn: Fullness of branches.

BRANCHING
Branch"ing, a.

Defn: Furnished with branches; shooting our branches; extending in a
branch or branches.
Shaded with branching palm. Milton.

BRANCHING
Branch"ing, n.

Defn: The act or state of separation into branches; division into
branches; a division or branch.
The sciences, with their numerous branchings. L. Watts.

BRANCHIOGASTROPODA
Bran`chi*o*gas*trop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. gastropoda.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Those Gastropoda that breathe by branchiæ, including the
Prosobranchiata and Opisthobranchiata.

BRANCHIOMERISM
Bran`chi*om"er*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. -mere.] (Anat.)

Defn: The state of being made up of branchiate segments. R.
Wiedersheim.

BRANCHIOPOD
Bran"chi*o*pod, n.

Defn: One of the Branchiopoda.

BRANCHIOPODA
Bran"chi*o*poda, n. pl. Etym: [Gr. -poda: cf. F. branchiopode.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Entomostraca; -- so named from the feet of
branchiopods having been supposed to perform the function of gills.
It includes the fresh-water genera Branchipus, Apus, and Limnadia,
and the genus Artemia found in salt lakes. It is also called
Phyllopoda. See Phyllopoda, Cladocera. It is sometimes used in a
broader sense.

BRANCHIOSTEGAL
Bran`chi*os"te*gal, a. Etym: [Gr. branchiostège.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the membrane covering the gills of fishes.
 -- n. (Anat.)

Defn: A branchiostegal ray. See Illustration of Branchial arches in
Appendix.

Note: This term was formerly applied to a group of fishes having
boneless branchiæ. But the arrangement was artificial, and has been
rejected.

BRANCHIOSTEGE
Bran`chi*os"tege, (Anat.)

Defn: The branchiostegal membrane. See Illustration in Appendix.

BRANCHIOSTEGOUS
Bran`chi*os"te*gous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Branchiostegal.

BRANCHIOSTOMA
Bran`chi*os"to*ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr., Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lancelet. See Amphioxus.

BRANCHIURA
Bran"chi*u"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr., Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Entomostraca, with suctorial mouths, including
species parasitic on fishes, as the carp lice (Argulus).

BRANCHLESS
Branch"less, a.

Defn: Destitude of branches or shoots; without any valuable product;
barren; naked.

BRANCHLET
Branch"let, n. Etym: [Branch + -let.]

Defn: A little branch; a twig.

BRANCH PILOT
Branch" pi`lot.

Defn: A pilot who has a branch or commission, as from Trinity House,
England, for special navigation.

BRANCHY
Branch"y, a.

Defn: Full of branches; having wide-spreading branches; consisting of
branches.
Beneath thy branchy bowers of thickest gloom. J. Scott.

BRAND
Brand, n. Etym: [OE. brand, brond, AS. brand brond brand, sword, from
byrnan, beornan, to burn; akin to D., Dan., Sw., & G. brand brand,
Icel. brandr a brand, blade of a sword. sq. root32. See Burn, v. t.,
and cf. Brandish.]

1. A burning piece of wood; or a stick or piece of wood partly burnt,
whether burning or after the fire is extinct.
Snatching a live brand from a wigwam, Mason threw it on a matted
roof. Palfrey.

2. A sword, so called from its glittering or flashing brightness.
[Poetic] Tennyson.
Paradise, so late their happy seat, Waved over by that flaming brand.
Milton.

3. A mark made by burning with a hot iron, as upon a cask, to
designate the quality, manufacturer, etc., of the contents, or upon
an animal, to designate ownership; -- also, a mark for a similar
purpose made in any other way, as with a stencil. Hence, figurately:
Quality; kind; grade; as, a good brand of flour.

4. A mark put upon criminals with a hot iron. Hence: Any mark of
infamy or vice; a stigma.
The brand of private vice. Channing.

5. An instrument to brand with; a branding iron.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: Any minute fungus which produces a burnt appearance in plants.
The brands are of many species and several genera of the order
Pucciniæi.

BRAND
Brand, v.t [imp. & p. p. Branded; p. pr. & vb. n. Branding.].

1. To burn a distinctive mark into or upon with a hot iron, to
indicate quality, ownership, etc., or to mark as infamous (as a
convict).

2. To put an actual distinctive mark upon in any other way, as with a
stencil, to show quality of contents, name of manufacture, etc.

3. Fig.: To fix a mark of infamy, or a stigma, upon.
The Inquisition branded its victims with infamy. Prescott.
There were the enormities, branded and condemned by the first and
most natural verdict of common humanity. South.

4. To mark or impress indelibly, as with a hot iron.
As if it were branded on my mind. Geo. Eliot.
Brand"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, brands; a branding iron.

2. A gridiron. [Scot.]

BRANDENBURG
Bran"den*burg, n. [So named after Brandenburg, a province and a town
of Prussia.]

Defn: A kind of decoration for the breast of a coat, sometimes only a
frog with a loop, but in some military uniforms enlarged into a broad
horizontal stripe.

He wore a coat . . . trimmed with Brandenburgs.
Smollett.

BRANDER
Brand"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, brands; a branding iron.

2. A gridiron. [Scot.]

BRAND GOOSE
Brand" goose`. Etym: [Prob. fr. 1st brand + goose: cf. Sw. brandgås.
Cf. Brant.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) usually called in
America brant. See Brant.

BRANDIED
Bran"died, a.

Defn: Mingled with brandy; made stronger by the addition of brandy;
flavored or treated with brandy; as, brandied peaches.

BRANDING IRON
Brand"ing i`*ron.

Defn: An iron to brand with.

BRAND IRON
Brand" i`ron.

1. A branding iron.

2. A trivet to set a pot on. Huloet.

3. The horizontal bar of an andiron.

BRANDISH
Bran"dish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Brandished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Brandishing.] Etym: [OE. braundisen, F. brandir, fr. brand a sword,
fr. OHG. brant brand. See Brand, n.]

1. To move or wave, as a weapon; to raise and move in various
directions; to shake or flourish.
The quivering lance which he brandished bright. Drake.

2. To play with; to flourish; as, to brandish syllogisms.

BRANDISH
Bran"dish, n.

Defn: A flourish, as with a weapon, whip, etc. "Brandishes of the
fan." Tailer.

BRANDISHER
Bran"dish*er, n.

Defn: One who brandishes.

BRANDLE
Bran"dle, v. t. & i. Etym: [F. brandiller.]

Defn: To shake; to totter. [Obs.]

BRANDLING; BRANDLIN
Brand"ling, Brand"lin, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Branlin, fish and worm.

BRAND-NEW
Brand"-new", a. Etym: [See Brand, and cf. Brannew.]

Defn: Quite new; bright as if fresh from the forge.

BRAND SPORE
Brand" spore`. (Bot.)

Defn: One of several spores growing in a series or chain, and
produced by one of the fungi called brand.

BRANDY
Bran"dy, n.; pl. Brandies. Etym: [From older brandywine, brandwine,
fr. D. brandewijn, fr. p. p. of branden to burn, distill + wijn wine,
akin to G. branntwein. See Brand.]

Defn: A strong alcoholic liquor distilled from wine. The name is also
given to spirit distilled from other liquors, and in the United
States to that distilled from cider and peaches. In northern Europe,
it is also applied to a spirit obtained from grain. Brandy fruit,
fruit preserved in brandy and sugar.

BRANDYWINE
Bran"dy*wine`, n.

Defn: Brandy. [Obs.] Wiseman.

BRANGLE
Bran"gle, n. Etym: [Prov. E. brangled confused, entangled, Scot.
brangle to shake, menace; probably a variant of wrangle, confused
with brawl.]

Defn: A wrangle; a squabble; a noisy contest or dispute. [R.]
A brangle between him and his neighbor. Swift.

BRANGLE
Bran"gle, v.i [imp. & p. p. Brangled; p. pr. & vb. n. Brangling.]

Defn: To wrangle; to dispute contentiously; to squabble. [R.]

BRANGLEMENT
Bran"gle*ment, n.

Defn: Wrangle; brangle. [Obs.]

BRANGLER
Bran"gler, n.

Defn: A quarrelsome person.

BRANGLING
Bran"gling, n.

Defn: A quarrel. [R.] Whitlock.

BRANK
Brank, n. Etym: [Prov. of Celtic origin; cf. L. brance, brace, the
Gallic name of a particularly white kind of corn.]

Defn: Buckwheat. [Local, Eng.] Halliwell.

BRANK; BRANKS
Brank, Branks, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. brangus, brangas, a sort of
pillory, Ir. brancas halter, or D. pranger fetter.]

1. A sort of bridle with wooden side pieces. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
Jamieson.

2. A scolding bridle, an instrument formerly used for correcting
scolding women. It was an iron frame surrounding the head and having
a triangular piece entering the mouth of the scold.

BRANK
Brank, v. i.

1. To hold up and toss the head; -- applied to horses as spurning the
bit. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

2. To prance; to caper. [Scot.] Jamieson.

BRANKURSINE
Brank"ur*sine, n. Etym: [F. branc-ursine, branch-ursine, fr. LL.
branca claw + L. ursinus belonging to a bear (fr. ursus bear), i .e.,
bear's claw, because its leaves resemble the claws of a bear. Cf.
Branch.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bear's-breech, or Acanthus.

BRANLIN
Bran"lin, n. Etym: [Scot. branlie fr. brand.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young salmon or parr, in the stage in which it has transverse
black bands, as if burned by a gridiron.

BRANLIN
Bran"lin, n. Etym: [See Brand.]

Defn: A small red worm or larva, used as bait for small fresh-water
fish; -- so called from its red color.

BRAN-NEW
Bran"-new", a.

Defn: See Brand-new.

BRANNY
Bran"ny, a.

Defn: Having the appearance of bran; consisting of or containing
bran. Wiseman.

BRANSLE
Bran"sle, n. Etym: [See Brawl a dance.]

Defn: A brawl or dance. [Obs.] Spenser.

BRANT
Brant, n. Etym: [Cf.Brand goose, Brent, Brenicle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) -- called also brent
and brand goose. The name is also applied to other related species.

BRANT
Brant, a. Etym: [See Brent.]

Defn: Steep. [Prov. Eng.]

BRANTAIL
Bran"tail`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European redstart; -- so called from the red color of its
tail.

BRANT-FOX
Brant"-fox`, n. Etym: [For brand-fox; cf. G. brandfuchs, Sw. bradräf.
So called from its yellowish brown and somewhat black color. See
Brand.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of fox found in Sweden (Vulpes alopex), smaller than the
common fox (V. vulgaris), but probably a variety of it.

BRANULAR
Bran"u*lar, a.

Defn: Relating to the brain; cerebral. I. Taylor.

BRASEN
Bra"sen, a.

Defn: Same as Brazen.

BRASH
Brash, a. Etym: [Cf. Gael. bras or G. barsch harsh, sharp, tart,
impetuous, D. barsch, Sw. & Dan. barsk.]

Defn: Hasty in temper; impetuous. Grose.

BRASH
Brash, a. Etym: [Cf. Amer. bresk, brusk, fragile, brittle.]

Defn: Brittle, as wood or vegetables. [Colloq., U. S.] Bartlett.

BRASH
Brash, n. Etym: [See Brash brittle.]

1. A rash or eruption; a sudden or transient fit of sickness.

2. Refuse boughs of trees; also, the clippings of hedges. [Prov.
Eng.] Wright.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: Broken and angular fragments of rocks underlying alluvial
deposits. Lyell.

4. Broken fragments of ice. Kane. Water brash (Med.), an affection
characterized by a spasmodic pain or hot sensation in the stomach
with a rising of watery liquid into the mouth; pyrosis.
 -- Weaning brash (Med.), a severe form of diarrhea which sometimes
attacks children just weaned.

BRASHY
Brash"y, a.

1. Resembling, or of the nature of, brash, or broken fragments;
broken; crumbly.

Our progress was not at all impeded by the few soft, brashy floes
that we encountered.
F. T. Bullen.

2.  Showery; characterized by brashes, or showers.

BRASIER; BRAZIER
Bra"sier, Bra"zier, n. Etym: [OE. brasiere, F. braise live coals. See
Brass.]

Defn: An artificer who works in brass. Franklin.

BRASIER; BRAZIER
Bra"sier, Bra"zier, n. Etym: [F. brasier, braisíer, fr. braise live
coals. See Brass.]

Defn: A pan for holding burning coals.

BRASILIN; BRASILEIN
Bras"i*lin, Bras"i*lein, n. [Cf. F. brésiline. See 2d Brazil.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A substance, C16H14O5, extracted from brazilwood as a yellow
crystalline powder which is white when pure. It is colored intensely
red by alkalies on exposure to the air, being oxidized to
bra*sil"e*in, C16H12O5, to which brazilwood owes its dyeing
properties.

BRASQUE
Brasque, n. [F.] (Metal.)

Defn: A paste made by mixing powdered charcoal, coal, or coke with
clay, molasses, tar, or other suitable substance. It is used for
lining hearths, crucibles, etc. Called also steep.

BRASS
Brass, n.; pl. Brasses. Etym: [OE. bras, bres, AS. bræs; akin to
Icel. bras cement, solder, brasa to harden by fire, and to E. braze,
brazen. Cf. 1st & 2d Braze.]

1. An alloy (usually yellow) of copper and zinc, in variable
proportion, but often containing two parts of copper to one part of
zinc. It sometimes contains tin, and rarely other metals.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A journal bearing, so called because frequently made of brass.
A brass is often lined with a softer metal, when the latter is
generally called a white metal lining. See Axle box, Journal Box, and
Bearing.

3. Coin made of copper, brass, or bronze. [Obs.]
Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses, nor scrip
for your journey. Matt. x. 9.

4. Impudence; a brazen face. [Colloq.]

5. pl.

Defn: Utensils, ornaments, or other articles of brass.
The very scullion who cleans the brasses. Hopkinson.

6. A brass plate engraved with a figure or device. Specifically, one
used as a memorial to the dead, and generally having the portrait,
coat of arms, etc.

7. pl. (Mining)

Defn: Lumps of pyrites or sulphuret of iron, the color of which is
near to that of brass.

Note: The word brass as used in Sculpture language is a translation
for copper or some kind of bronze.

Note: Brass is often used adjectively or in self-explaining
compounds; as, brass button, brass kettle, brass founder, brass
foundry or brassfoundry. Brass band (Mus.), a band of musicians who
play upon wind instruments made of brass, as trumpets, cornets, etc.
 -- Brass foil, Brass leaf, brass made into very thin sheets; --
called also Dutch gold.

BRASSAGE
Bras"sage, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A sum formerly levied to pay the expense of coinage; -- now
called seigniorage.

BRASSART
Bras"sart, n. Etym: [F. brassard, fr. bras arm. See Brace, n.]

Defn: Armor for the arm; -- generally used for the whole arm from the
shoulder to the wrist, and consisting, in the 15th and 16th
centuries, of many parts.

BRASSE
Brasse, n. Etym: [Perh. a transposition of barse; but cf. LG. brasse
the bream, G. brassen Cf. Bream.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spotted European fish of the genus Lucioperca, resembling a
perch.

BRASSETS
Bras"sets, n.

Defn: See Brassart.

BRASSICA
Bras"si*ca, n. Etym: [L., cabbage.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants embracing several species ad varieties
differing much in appearance and qualities: such as the common
cabbage (B. oleracea), broccoli, cauliflowers, etc.; the wild turnip
(B. campestris); the common turnip (B. rapa); the rape of coleseed
(B. napus), etc.

BRASSICACEOUS
Bras`si*ca"ceous, a. Etym: [L. brassica cabbage.] (Bot.)

Defn: Related to, or resembling, the cabbage, or plants of the
Cabbage family.

BRASSIERE
Bras`sière", n. [F.]

Defn: A form of woman's underwaist stiffened with whalebones, or the
like, and worn to support the breasts.

BRASSINESS
Brass"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state, conditions, or quality of being brassy. [Colloq.]

BRASS-VISAGED
Brass"-vis"aged, a.

Defn: Impudent; bold.

BRASSY
Brass"y, a.

1. Of or pertaining to brass; having the nature, appearance, or
hardness, of brass.

2. Impudent; impudently bold. [Colloq.]

BRAST
Brast, v. t. & i. Etym: [See Burst.]

Defn: To burst. [Obs.]
And both his yën braste out of his face. Chaucer.
Dreadfull furies which their chains have brast. Spenser.

BRAT
Brat, n. Etym: [OE. bratt coarse garnment, AS. bratt cloak, fr. the
Celtic; cf. W. brat clout, rag, Gael. brat cloak, apron, raf, Ir.
brat cloak; properly then, a child's bib or clout; hence, a child.]

1. A coarse garnment or cloak; also, coarse clothing, in general.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A coarse kind of apron for keeping the clothes clean; a bib.
[Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Wright.

3. A child; an offspring; -- formerly used in a good sense, but now
usually in a contemptuous sense. "This brat is none of mine." Shak.
"A beggar's brat." Swift.
O Israel! O household of the Lord! O Abraham's brats! O brood of
blessed seed! Gascoigne.

4. The young of an animal. [Obs.] L'Estrange.

BRAT
Brat, n. (Mining)

Defn: A thin bed of coal mixed with pyrites or carbonate of lime.

BRATSCHE
Brat"sche, n. Etym: [G., fr. It. viola da braccio viola held on the
arm.]

Defn: The tenor viola, or viola.

BRATTICE
Brat"tice, n. Etym: [See Brettice.] (Mining)
(a) A wall of separation in a shaft or gallery used for ventilation.
(b) Planking to support a roof or wall.

BRATTISHING
Brat"tish*ing, n.

1. See Brattice, n.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Carved openwork, as of a shrine, battlement, or parapet.

BRAUNITE
Braun"ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A native oxide of manganese, of dark brownish black color. It
was named from a Mr. Braun of Gotha.

BRAVADE
Bra*vade" (, n.

Defn: Bravado. [Obs.] Fanshawe.

BRAVADO
Bra*va"do, n., pl. Bravadoes. Etym: [Sp. bravada, bravata, boast,
brag: cf. F. bravade. See Brave.]

Defn: Boastful and threatening behavior; a boastful menace.
In spite of our host's bravado. Irving.

BRAVE
Brave, a. [Compar. Braver; superl. Bravest.] Etym: [F. brave, It. or
Sp. bravo, (orig.) fierce, wild, savage, prob. from. L. barbarus. See
Barbarous, and cf. Bravo.]

1. Bold; courageous; daring; intrepid; -- opposed to cowardly; as, a
brave man; a brave act.

2. Having any sort of superiority or excellence; -- especially such
as in conspicuous. [Obs. or Archaic as applied to material things.]
Iron is a brave commodity where wood aboundeth. Bacon.
It being a brave day, I walked to Whitehall. Pepys.

3. Making a fine show or display. [Archaic]
Wear my dagger with the braver grace. Shak.
For I have gold, and therefore will be brave. In silks I'll rattle it
of every color. Robert Greene.
Frog and lizard in holiday coats And turtle brave in his golden
spots. Emerson.

Syn.
 -- Courageous; gallant; daring; valiant; valorous; bold; heroic;
intrepid; fearless; dauntless; magnanimous; high-spirited; stout-
hearted. See Gallant.

BRAVE
Brave, n.

1. A brave person; one who is daring.
The star-spangled banner, O,long may it wave O'er the land of the
free and the home of the brave. F. S. Key.

2. Specifically, an Indian warrior.

3. A man daring beyond discretion; a bully.
Hot braves like thee may fight. Dryden.

4. A challenge; a defiance; bravado. [Obs.]
Demetrius, thou dost overween in all; And so in this, to bear me down
with braves. Shak.

BRAVE
Brave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Braved; p. pr. & vb. n. Braving.]

1. To encounter with courage and fortitude; to set at defiance; to
defy; to dare.
These I can brave, but those I can not bear. Dryden.

2. To adorn; to make fine or showy. [Obs.]
Thou [a tailor whom Grunio was browbeating] hast braved meny men;
brave not me; I'll neither be faced or braved. Shak.

BRAVELY
Brave"ly, adv.

1. In a brave manner; courageously; gallantly; valiantly; splendidly;
nobly.

2. Finely; gaudily; gayly; showily.
And [she] decked herself bravely to allure the eyes of all men that
should see her. Judith. x. 4.

3. Well; thrivingly; prosperously. [Colloq.]

BRAVENESS
Brave"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of state or being brave.

BRAVERY
Brav"er*y, n. Etym: [Cf. F. braverie.]

1. The quality of being brave; fearless; intrepidity.
Remember, sir, my liege, . . . The natural bravery of your isle.
Shak.

2. The act of braving; defiance; bravado. [Obs.]
Reform, then, without bravery or scandal of former times and persons.

3. Splendor; magnificence; showy appearance; ostentation; fine dress.
With scarfs and fans and double change of bravery. Shak.
Like a stately ship . . . With all her bravery on, and tackle trim.
Milton.

4. A showy person; a fine gentleman; a beau. [Obs.]
A man that is the bravery of his age. Beau. & Fl.

Syn.
 -- Courage; heroism; interpidity; gallantry; valor; fearlessness;
dauntlessness; hardihood; manfulness. See Courage, and Heroism.

BRAVING
Brav"ing, n.

Defn: A bravado; a boast.
With so proud a strain Of threats and bravings. Chapman.

BRAVINGLY
Brav"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a defiant manner.

BRAVO
Bra"vo, n.; pl. Bravoes. Etym: [I. See Brave, a.]

Defn: A daring villain; a bandit; one who sets law at defiance; a
professional assassin or murderer.
Safe from detection, seize the unwary prey. And stab, like bravoes,
all who come this way. Churchill.

BRAVO
Bra"vo, interj. Etym: [It. See Brave.]

Defn: Well done! excellent! an exclamation expressive of applause.

BRAVURA
Bra*vu"ra, n. Etym: [It., (properly) bravery, spirit, from bravo. See
Brave.] (Mus.)

Defn: A florid, brilliant style of music, written for effect, to show
the range and flexibility of a singer's voice, or the technical force
and skill of a performer; virtuoso music. Aria di bravura ( Etym:
[It.], a florid air demanding brilliant execution.

BRAW
Braw, a. [See Brave, a.] [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

1. Well-dressed; handsome; smart; brave; -- used of persons or their
clothing, etc.; as, a braw lad. "A braw new gown." Burns.

2.  Good; fine. "A braw  night." Sir W. Scott.

BRAWL
Brawl, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Brawled; p. pr. & vb. n. Brawling.] Etym:
[OE. braulen to quarrel, boast, brallen to cry, make a noise; cf. LG.
brallen to brag, MHG. prulen, G. prahlen, F. brailler to cry, shout,
Pr. brailar, braillar, W. bragal to vociferate, brag, Armor. bragal
to romp, to strut, W. broliaw to brag, brawl boast.

1. To quarrel noisily and outrageously.
Let a man that is a man consider that he is a fool that brawleth
openly with his wife. Golden Boke.

2. To complain loudly; to scold.

3. To make a loud confused noise, as the water of a rapid stream
running over stones.
Where the brook brawls along the painful road. Wordsworth.

Syn.
 -- To wrangle; squabble; contend.

BRAWL
Brawl, n.

Defn: A noisy quarrel; loud, angry contention; a wrangle; a tumult;
as, a drunken brawl.
His sports were hindered by the brawls. Shak
.

Syn.
 -- Noise; quarrel; uproar; row; tumult.

BRAWLER
Brawl"er, n.

Defn: One that brawls; wrangler. Common brawler (Law), one who
disturbs a neighborhood by brawling (and is therefore indictable at
common law as a nuisance). Wharton.

BRAWLING
Brawl"ing, a.

1. Quarreling; quarrelsome; noisy.
She is an irksome brawling scold. Shak.

2. Making a loud confused noise. See Brawl, v. i., 3.
A brawling stream. J. S. Shairp.

BRAWLINGLY
Brawl"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a brawling manner.

BRAWN
Brawn, n. Etym: [OF. braon fleshy part, muscle, fr. HG. br flesh, G.
braten roast meat; akin to Icel. br flesh, food of beasts, AS. brbr
to roast, G. braten, and possibly to E. breed.]

1. A muscle; flesh. [Obs.]
Formed well of brawns and of bones. Chaucer.

2. Full, strong muscles, esp. of the arm or leg, muscular strength; a
protuberant muscular part of the body; sometimes, the arm.
Brawn without brains is thine. Dryden.
It was ordained that murderers should be brent on the brawn of the
left hand. E. Hall.
And in my vantbrace put this withered brawn. Shak.

3. The flesh of a boar; also, the salted and prepared flesh of a
boar.
The best age for the boar is from two to five years, at which time it
is best to geld him, or sell him for brawn. Mortimer.

4. A boar. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

BRAWNED
Brawned, a.

Defn: Brawny; strong; muscular. [Obs.] Spenser.

BRAWNER
Brawn"er, n.

Defn: A boor killed for the table.

BRAWNINESS
Brawn"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being brawny.

BRAWNY
Brawn"y, a.

Defn: Having large, strong muscles; muscular; fleshy; strong. "Brawny
limbs." W. Irving.

Syn.
 -- Muscular; fleshy; strong; bulky; sinewy; athletic; stalwart;
powerful; robust.

BRAXY
Brax"y, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. breac rheum, broc sickness, Ir. bracha
corruption. Jamieson.]

1. A disease of sheep. The term is variously applied in different
localities. [Scot.]

2. A diseased sheep, or its mutton.

BRAY
Bray, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Brayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Braying.] Etym:
[OE. brayen, OF. breier, F. broyer to pound, grind, fr. OHG. brehhan
to break. See Break.]

Defn: To pound, beat, rub, or grind small or fine.
Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar, . . . yet will not his
foolishness depart from him. Prov. xxvii. 22.

BRAY
Bray, v. i. Etym: [OE brayen, F. braire to bray, OF. braire to cry,
fr. LL. bragire to whinny; perh. fr. the Celtic and akin to E. break;
or perh. of imitative origin.]

1. To utter a loud, harsh cry, as an ass.
Laugh, and they Return it louder than an ass can bray. Dryden.

2. To make a harsh, grating, or discordant noise.
Heard ye the din of battle bray Gray.

BRAY
Bray, v. t.

Defn: To make or utter with a loud, discordant, or harsh and grating
sound.
Arms on armor clashing, brayed Horrible discord. MIlton.
And varying notes the war pipes brayed. Sir W. Scott.

BRAY
Bray, n.

Defn: The harsh cry of an ass; also, any harsh, grating, or
discordant sound.
The bray and roar of multitudinous London. Jerrold.

BRAY
Bray, n. Etym: [OE. braye, brey, brew, eyebrow, brow of a hill, hill,
bank, Scot. bra, brae, bray, fr. AS. br eyebrow, influenced by the
allied Icel. br eyebrow, bank, also akin to AS. brBrow.]

Defn: A bank; the slope of a hill; a hill. See Brae, which is now the
usual spelling. [North of Eng. & Scot.] Fairfax.

BRAYER
Bray"er, n.

Defn: An implement for braying and spreading ink in hand printing.

BRAYER
Bray"er, n.

Defn: One that brays like an ass. Pope.

BRAYING
Bray"ing, a.

Defn: Making a harsh noise; blaring. "Braying trumpets." Shak.

BRAZE
Braze, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Brazed; p. pr & vb. n. Brazing.] Etym: [F.
braser to solder, fr. Icel. brasa to harden by fire. Cf. Brass.]

1. To solder with hard solder, esp. with an alloy of copper and zinc;
as, to braze the seams of a copper pipe.

2. To harden. "Now I am brazes to it." Shak.

BRAZE
Braze, v. t. Etym: [AS. bræsian, fr. bræs brass. See Brass.]

Defn: To cover or ornament with brass. Chapman.

BRAZEN
Bra"zen, a.Etym: [OE. brasen, AS. bræsen. See Brass.]

1. Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, brass.

2. Sounding harsh and loud, like resounding brass.

3. Impudent; immodest; shameless; having a front like brass; as, a
brazen countenance. Brazen age. (a) (Myth.) The age of war and
lawlessness which succeeded the silver age. (b) (Archæol.) See under
Bronze.
 -- Brazen sea (Jewish Antiq.), a large laver of brass, placed in
Solomon's temple for the use of the priests.

BRAZEN
Bra"zen, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Brazened; p. pr. & vb. n. Brazening.]

Defn: To carry through impudently or shamelessly; as, to brazen the
matter through.
Sabina brazened it out before Mrs. Wygram, but inwardly she was
resolved to be a good deal more circumspect. W. Black.

BRAZEN-BROWED
Bra"zen-browed`, a.

Defn: Shamelessly impudent. Sir T. Browne.

BRAZENFACE
Bra"zen*face`, n.

Defn: An impudent of shameless person. "Well said, brazenface; hold
it out." Shak.

BRAZENFACED
Bra"zen*faced`, a.

Defn: Impudent; shameless.

BRAZENLY
Bra"zen*ly, adv.

Defn: In a bold, impudent manner.

BRAZENNESS
Bra"zen*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being brazen. Johnson.

BRAZIER
Bra"zier, n.

Defn: Same as Brasier.

BRAZILETTO
Braz`i*let"to, n. Etym: [Cf. Pg. & Sp. brasilete, It. brasiletto.]

Defn: See Brazil wood.

BRAZILIAN
Bra*zil"ian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Brasil.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Brazil. Brazilian pebble. See
Pebble, n., 2.

BRAZILIN
Braz"i*lin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. brésiline. See Brazil.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance contained in both Brazil wood and Sapan wood, from
which it is extracted as a yellow crystalline substance which is
white when pure. It is colored intensely red by alkalies. [Written
also brezilin.]

BRAZIL NUT
Bra*zil" nut`. (Bot.)

Defn: An oily, three-sided nut, the seed of the Bertholletia excelsa;
the cream nut.

Note: From eighteen to twenty-four of the seed or "nuts" grow in a
hard and nearly globular shell.

BRAZIL WOOD
Bra*zil" wood`. Etym: [OE. brasil, LL. brasile (cf. Pg. & Sp. brasil,
Pr. bresil, Pr. bresil); perh. from Sp. or Pg. brasa a live coal (cf.
Braze, Brasier); or Ar. vars plant for dyeing red or yellow. This
name was given to the wood from its color; and it is said that King
Emanuel, of Portugal, gave the name Brazil to the country in South
America on account of its producing this wood.]

1. The wood of the oriental Cæsalpinia Sapan; -- so called before the
discovery of America.

2. A very heavy wood of a reddish color, imported from Brazil and
other tropical countries, for cabinet-work, and for dyeing. The best
is the heartwood of Cæsalpinia echinata, a leguminous tree; but other
trees also yield it. An interior sort comes from Jamaica, the timber
of C. Braziliensis and C. crista. This is often distinguished as
Braziletto , but the better kind is also frequently so named.

BREACH
Breach, n. Etym: [OE. breke, breche, AS. brice, gebrice, gebrece (in
comp.), fr. brecan to break; akin to Dan. bræk, MHG. breche, gap,
breach. See Break, and cf. Brake (the instrument), Brack a break] .

1. The act of breaking, in a figurative sense.

2. Specifically: A breaking or infraction of a law, or of any
obligation or tie; violation; non-fulfillment; as, a breach of
contract; a breach of promise.

3. A gap or opening made made by breaking or battering, as in a wall
or fortification; the space between the parts of a solid body rent by
violence; a break; a rupture.
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more; Or close the wall
up with our English dead. Shak.

4. A breaking of waters, as over a vessel; the waters themselves;
surge; surf.
The Lord hath broken forth upon mine enemies before me, as the breach
of waters. 2 Sam. v. 20
A clear breach implies that the waves roll over the vessel without
breaking.
 -- A clean breach implies that everything on deck is swept away.
Ham. Nav. Encyc.

5. A breaking up of amicable relations; rupture.
There's fallen between him and my lord An unkind breach. Shak.

6. A bruise; a wound.
Breach for breach, eye for eye. Lev. xxiv. 20

7. (Med.)

Defn: A hernia; a rupture.

8. A breaking out upon; an assault.
The Lord had made a breach upon Uzza. 1. Chron. xiii. 11
Breach of falth, a breaking, or a failure to keep, an expressed or
implied promise; a betrayal of confidence or trust.
 -- Breach of peace, disorderly conduct, disturbing the public peace.
 -- Breach of privilege, an act or default in violation of the
privilege or either house of Parliament, of Congress, or of a State
legislature, as, for instance, by false swearing before a committee.
Mozley. Abbott. - Breach of promise, violation of one's plighted
word, esp. of a promise to marry.
 -- Breach of trust, violation of one's duty or faith in a matter
entrusted to one.

Syn.
 -- Rent; cleft; chasm; rift; aperture; gap; break; disruption;
fracture; rupture; infraction; infringement; violation; quarrel;
dispute; contention; difference; misunderstanding.

BREACH
Breach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Breached ( ; p. pr. & vb. n. Breaching.]

Defn: To make a breach or opening in; as, to breach the walls of a
city.

BREACH
Breach, v. i.

Defn: To break the water, as by leaping out; -- said of a whale.

BREACHY
Breach"y, a.

Defn: Apt to break fences or to break out of pasture; unruly; as,
breachy cattle.

BREAD
Bread, v. t. Etym: [AS. brædan to make broad, to spread. See Broad,
a.]

Defn: To spread. [Obs.] Ray.

BREAD
Bread, n. Etym: [AS. breád; akin to OFries. brad, OS. br, D. brood,
G. brod, brot, Icel. brau, Sw. & Dan. bröd. The root is probably that
of E. brew. Brew.]

1. An article of food made from flour or meal by moistening,
kneading, and baking.

Note: Raised bread is made with yeast, salt, and sometimes a little
butter or lard, and is mixed with warm milk or water to form the
dough, which, after kneading, is given time to rise before baking.
 -- Cream of tartar bread is raised by the action of an alkaline
carbonate or bicarbonate (as saleratus or ammonium bicarbonate) and
cream of tartar (acid tartrate of potassium) or some acid.
 -- Unleavened bread is usually mixed with water and salt only.
Aërated bread. See under Aërated. Bread and butter (fig.), means of
living.
 -- Brown bread, Indian bread, Graham bread, Rye and Indian bread.
See Brown bread, under Brown.
 -- Bread tree. See Breadfruit.

2. Food; sustenance; support of life, in general.
Give us this day our daily bread. Matt. vi. 11

BREAD
Bread, v. t. (Cookery)

Defn: To cover with bread crumbs, preparatory to cooking; as, breaded
cutlets.

BREADBASKET
Bread"bas`ket, n.

Defn: The stomach. [Humorous] S. Foote.

BREADCORN
Bread"corn`.

Defn: Corn of grain of which bread is made, as wheat, rye, etc.

BREADED
Bread"ed, a.

Defn: Braided [Obs.] Spenser.

BREADEN
Bread"en, a.

Defn: Made of bread. [R.]

BREADFRUIT
Bread"fruit`, n. (Bot.)

1. The fruit of a tree (Artocarpus incisa) found in the islands of
the Pacific, esp. the South Sea islands. It is of a roundish form,
from four to six or seven inches in diameter, and, when baked,
somewhat resembles bread, and is eaten as food, whence the name.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The tree itself, which is one of considerable size, with large,
lobed leaves. Cloth is made from the bark, and the timber is used for
many purposes. Called also breadfruit tree and bread tree.

BREADLESS
Bread"less, a.

Defn: Without bread; destitude of food.
Plump peers and breadless bards alike are dull. P. Whitehead.

BREADROOT
Bread`root", n. (Bot.)

Defn: The root of a leguminous plant (Psoralea esculenta), found near
the Rocky Mountains. It is usually oval in form, and abounds in
farinaceous matter, affording sweet and palatable food.

Note: It is the Pomme blanche of Canadian voyageurs.

BREADSTUFF
Bread"stuff, n.

Defn: Grain, flour, or meal of which bread is made.

BREADTH
Breadth, n. Etym: [OE. brede, breede, whence later bredette, AS.
brbrad broad. See Broad, a.]

1. Distance from side to side of any surface or thing; measure
across, or at right angles to the length; width.

2. (Fine Arts) The quality of having the colors and shadows broad and
massive, and the arrangement of objects such as to avoid to great
multiplicity of details, producing an impression of largeness and
simple grandeur; -- called also breadth of effect.
Breadth of coloring is a prominent character in the painting of all
great masters. Weale.

BREADTHLESS
Breadth"less, a.

Defn: Without breadth.

BREADTHWAYS
Breadth"ways, ads.

Defn: Breadthwise. Whewell.

BREADTHWISE
Breadth"wise, ads.

Defn: In the direction of the breadth.

BREADWINNER
Bread"win`ner, n.

Defn: The member of a family whose labor supplies the food of the
family; one who works for his living. H. Spencer.

BREAK
Break, v. t. [imp. broke, (Obs. Brake); p. p. Broken (, (Obs. Broke);
p. pr. & vb. n. Breaking.] Etym: [OE. breken, AS. brecan; akin to OS.
brekan, D. breken, OHG. brehhan, G. brechen, Icel.braka to creak, Sw.
braka, bräkka to crack, Dan. brække to break, Goth. brikan to break,
L. frangere. Cf. Bray to pound, Breach, Fragile.]

1. To strain apart; to sever by fracture; to divide with violence;
as, to break a rope or chain; to break a seal; to break an axle; to
break rocks or coal; to break a lock. Shak.

2. To lay open as by breaking; to divide; as, to break a package of
goods.

3. To lay open, as a purpose; to disclose, divulge, or communicate.
Katharine, break thy mind to me. Shak.

4. To infringe or violate, as an obligation, law, or promise.
Out, out, hyena! these are thy wonted arts . . . To break all faith,
all vows, deceive, betray. Milton

5. To interrupt; to destroy the continuity of; to dissolve or
terminate; as, to break silence; to break one's sleep; to break one's
journey.
Go, release them, Ariel;
My charms I'll break, their senses I'll restore. Shak.

6. To destroy the completeness of; to remove a part from; as, to
break a set.

7. To destroy the arrangement of; to throw into disorder; to pierce;
as, the cavalry were not able to break the British squares.

8. To shatter to pieces; to reduce to fragments.
The victim broke in pieces the musical instruments with which he had
solaced the hours of captivity. Prescott.

9. To exchange for other money or currency of smaller denomination;
as, to break a five dollar bill.

10. To destroy the strength, firmness, or consistency of; as, to
break flax.

11. To weaken or impair, as health, spirit, or mind.
An old man, broken with the storms of state. Shak.

12. To diminish the force of; to lessen the shock of, as a fall or
blow.
I'll rather leap down first, and break your fall. Dryden.

13. To impart, as news or information; to broach; -- with to, and
often with a modified word implying some reserve; as, to break the
news gently to the widow; to break a purpose cautiously to a friend.

14. To tame; to reduce to subjection; to make tractable; to
discipline; as, to break a horse to the harness or saddle. "To break
a colt." Spenser.
Why, then thou canst not break her to the lute Shak.

15. To destroy the financial credit of; to make bankrupt; to ruin.
With arts like these rich Matho, when he speaks, Attracts all fees,
and little lawyers breaks. Dryden.

16. To destroy the official character and standing of; to cashier; to
dismiss.
I see a great officer broken. Swift.

Note: With prepositions or adverbs: --To break down. (a) To crush; to
overwhelm; as, to break down one's strength; to break down
opposition. (b) To remove, or open a way through, by breaking; as, to
break down a door or wall.
 -- To break in. (a) To force in; as, to break in a door. (b) To
train; to discipline; as, a horse well broken in.
 -- To break of, to rid of; to cause to abandon; as, to break one of
a habit.
 -- To break off. (a) To separate by breaking; as, to break off a
twig. (b) To stop suddenly; to abandon. "Break off thy sins by
righteousness." Dan. iv. 27.
 -- To break open, to open by breaking. "Open the door, or I will
break it open." Shak.
 -- To break out, to take or force out by breaking; as, to break out
a pane of glass.
 -- To break out a cargo, to unstow a cargo, so as to unload it
easily.
 -- To break through. (a) To make an opening through, as, as by
violence or the force of gravity; to pass violently through; as, to
break through the enemy's lines; to break through the ice. (b) To
disregard; as, to break through the ceremony.
 -- To break up. (a) To separate into parts; to plow (new or fallow
ground). "Break up this capon." Shak. "Break up your fallow ground."
Jer. iv. 3. (b) To dissolve; to put an end to. "Break up the court."
Shak.
 -- To break (one) all up, to unsettle or disconcert completely; to
upset. [Colloq.]

Note: With an immediate object: -To break the back. (a) To dislocate
the backbone; hence, to disable totally. (b) To get through the worst
part of; as, to break the back of a difficult undertaking.
 -- To break bulk, to destroy the entirety of a load by removing a
portion of it; to begin to unload; also, to transfer in detail, as
from boats to cars.
 -- To break cover, to burst forth from a protecting concealment, as
game when hunted.
 -- To break a deer or stag, to cut it up and apportion the parts
among those entitled to a share.
 -- To break fast, to partake of food after abstinence. See
Breakfast.
 -- To break ground. (a) To open the earth as for planting; to
commence excavation, as for building, siege operations, and the like;
as, to break ground for a foundation, a canal, or a railroad. (b)
Fig.: To begin to execute any plan. (c) (Naut.) To release the anchor
from the bottom.
 -- To break the heart, to crush or overwhelm (one) with grief.
 -- To break a house (Law), to remove or set aside with violence and
a felonious intent any part of a house or of the fastenings provided
to secure it.
 -- To break the ice, to get through first difficulties; to overcome
obstacles and make a beginning; to introduce a subject.
 -- To break jail, to escape from confinement in jail, usually by
forcible means.
 -- To break a jest, to utter a jest. "Patroclus . . . the livelong
day break scurril jests." Shak.
 -- To break joints, to lay or arrange bricks, shingles, etc., so
that the joints in one course shall not coincide with those in the
preceding course.
 -- To break a lance, to engage in a tilt or contest.
 -- To break the neck, to dislocate the joints of the neck.
 -- To break no squares, to create no trouble. [Obs.] -- To break a
path, road, etc., to open a way through obstacles by force or labor.
 -- To break upon a wheel, to execute or torture, as a criminal by
stretching him upon a wheel, and breaking his limbs with an iron bar;
-- a mode of punishment formerly employed in some countries.
 -- To break wind, to give vent to wind from the anus.

Syn.
 -- To dispart; rend; tear; shatter; batter; violate; infringe;
demolish; destroy; burst; dislocate.

BREAK
Break, v. i.

1. To come apart or divide into two or more pieces, usually with
suddenness and violence; to part; to burst asunder.

2. To open spontaneously, or by pressure from within, as a bubble, a
tumor, a seed vessel, a bag.
Else the bottle break, and the wine runneth out. Math. ix. 17.

3. To burst forth; to make its way; to come to view; to appear; to
dawn.
The day begins to break, and night is fied. Shak.
And from the turf a fountain broke, and gurgled at our feet.
Wordswoorth.

4. To burst forth violently, as a storm.
The clouds are still above; and, while I speak, A second deluge o'er
our head may break. Shak.

5. To open up. to be scattered; t be dissipated; as, the clouds are
breaking.
At length the darkness begins to break. Macawlay.

6. To become weakened in constitution or faculties; to lose health or
strength.
See how the dean begins to break; Poor gentleman . Swift.

7. To be crushed, or overwhelmed with sorrow or grief; as, my heart
is breaking.

8. To fall in business; to become bankrupt.
He that puts all upon adventures doth oftentimes break, and come to
poverty. Bacn.

9. To make an abrupt or sudden change; to change the gait; as, to
break into a run or gallop.

10. To fail in musical quality; as, a singer's voice breaks when it
is strained beyond its compass and a tone or note is not completed,
but degenerates into an unmusical sound instead. Also, to change in
tone, as a boy's voice at puberty.

11. To fall out; to terminate friendship.
To break upon the score of danger or expense is to be mean and
narrow-spirited. Collier.

Note: With prepositions or adverbs: -To break away, to disengage
one's self abruptly; to come or go away against resistance.
Fear me not, man; I will not break away. Shak.
To break down. (a) To come down by breaking; as, the coach broke
down. (b) To fail in any undertaking.
He had broken down almost at the outset. Thackeray.
-- To break forth, to issue; to come out suddenly, as sound, light,
etc. "Then shall thy light break forth as the morning." Isa. lviii.
8;

Note: often with into in expressing or giving vent to one's feelings.
"Break forth into singing, ye mountains." Isa. xliv. 23. To break
from, to go away from abruptly.
This radiant from the circling crowd he broke. Dryden.
-- To break into, to enter by breaking; as, a house.
 -- To break in upon, to enter or approach violently or unexpectedly.
"This, this is he; softly awhile; let us not break in upon him."
Milton.
 -- To break loose. (a) To extricate one's self forcibly. "Who would
not, finding way, break loose from hell" Milton. (b) To cast off
restraint, as of morals or propriety.
 -- To break off. (a) To become separated by rupture, or with
suddenness and violence. (b) To desist or cease suddenly. "Nay,
forward, old man; do not break off so." Shak.
 -- To break off from, to desist from; to abandon, as a habit.
 -- To break out. (a) To burst forth; to escape from restraint; to
appear suddenly, as a fire or an epidemic. "For in the wilderness
shall waters break out, and stream in the desert." Isa. xxxv. 6 (b)
To show itself in cutaneous eruptions; -- said of a disease. (c) To
have a rash or eruption on the akin; -- said of a patient.
 -- To break over, to overflow; to go beyond limits.
 -- To break up. (a) To become separated into parts or fragments; as,
the ice break up in the rivers; the wreck will break up in the next
storm. (b) To disperse. "The company breaks up." I. Watts.
 -- To break upon, to discover itself suddenly to; to dawn upon.
 -- To break with. (a) To fall out; to sever one's relations with; to
part friendship. "It can not be the Volsces dare break with us."
Shak. "If she did not intend to marry Clive, she should have broken
with him altogether." Thackeray. (b) To come to an explanation; to
enter into conference; to speak. [Obs.] "I will break with her and
with her father." Shak.

BREAK
Break, n. Etym: [See Break, v. t., and cf. Brake (the instrument),
Breach, Brack a crack.]

1. An opening made by fracture or disruption.

2. An interruption of continuity; change of direction; as, a break in
a wall; a break in the deck of a ship. Specifically:
(a) (Arch.) A projection or recess from the face of a displacement in
the circuit, interrupting the electrical current.

3. An interruption; a pause; as, a break in friendship; a break in
the conversation.

4. An interruption in continuity in writing or printing, as where
there is an omission, an unfilled line, etc.
All modern trash is Set forth with numerous breaks and dashes. Swift.

5. The first appearing, as of light in the morning; the dawn; as, the
break of day; the break of dawn.

6. A large four-wheeled carriage, having a straight body and calash
top, with the driver's seat in front and the footman's behind.

7. A device for checking motion, or for measuring friction. See
Brake, n. 9 & 10.

8. (Teleg.)

Defn: See Commutator.

BREAKABLE
Break"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being broken.

BREAKAGE
Break"age, n.

1. The act of breaking; a break; a breaking; also, articles broken.

2. An allowance or compensation for things broken accidentally, as in
transportation or use.

BREAKAWAY
Break"a*way`, n.  [Break + away] [Australasia]

1.

Defn: A wild rush of sheep, cattle, horses, or camels (especially at
the smell or the sight of water); a stampede.

2.  An animal that breaks away from a herd.

BREAKBONE FEVER
Break"bone` fe`ver. (Med.)

Defn: See Dengue.

BREAK-CIRCUIT
Break"-cir`cuit, n. (Elec.)

Defn: A key or other device for breaking an electrical circuit.

BREAKDOWN
Break"down`, n.

1. The act or result of breaking down, as of a carriage; downfall.

2.
(a) A noisy, rapid, shuffling dance engaged in competitively by a
number of persons or pairs in succession, as among the colored people
of the Southern United States, and so called, perhaps, because the
exercise is continued until most of those who take part in it break
down.
(b) Any rude, noisy dance performed by shuffling the feet, usually by
one person at a time. [U.S.]
Don't clear out when the quadrilles are over, for we are going to
have a breakdown to wind up with. New Eng. Tales.

BREAKER
Break"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, breaks.
I'll be no breaker of the law. Shak.

2. Specifically: A machine for breaking rocks, or for breaking coal
at the mines; also, the building in which such a machine is placed.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A small water cask. Totten.

4. A wave breaking into foam against the shore, or against a sand
bank, or a rock or reef near the surface.
The breakers were right beneath her bows. Longfellow.

BREAKFAST
Break"fast, n. Etym: [Break + fast.]

1. The first meal in the day, or that which is eaten at the first
meal.
A sorry breakfast for my lord protector. Shak.

2. A meal after fasting, or food in general.
The wolves will get a breakfast by my death. Dryden.

BREAKFAST
Break"fast, v. i. [imp. & p. p. breakfasted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Breakfasting.]

Defn: To break one's fast in the morning; too eat the first meal in
the day.
First, sir, I read, and then I breakfast. Prior.

BREAKFAST
Break"fast, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with breakfast. Milton.

BREAKMAN
Break"man, n.

Defn: See Brakeman.

BREAKNECK
Break"neck`, n.

1. A fall that breaks the neck.

2. A steep place endangering the neck.

BREAKNECK
Break"neck`, a.

Defn: Producing danger of a broken neck; as, breakneck speed.

BREAK-UP
Break"-up`, n.

Defn: Disruption; a separation and dispersion of the parts or
members; as, a break-up of an assembly or dinner party; a break-up of
the government.

BREAKWATER
Break"wa`ter, n.

Defn: Any structure or contrivance, as a mole, or a wall at the mouth
of a harbor, to break the force of waves, and afford protection from
their violence.

BREAM
Bream, n. Etym: [OE. breme, brem, F. brême, OF. bresme, of German
origin; cf. OHG. brahsema, brahsina, OLG. bressemo, G. brassen. Cf.
Brasse.]

1. (Zoöl)

Defn: A European fresh-water cyprinoid fish of the genus Abramis,
little valued as food. Several species are known.

2. (Zoöl)

Defn: An American fresh-water fish, of various species of Pomotis and
allied genera, which are also called sunfishes and pondfishes. See
Pondfish.

3. (Zoöl)

Defn: A marine sparoid fish of the genus Pagellus, and allied genera.
See Sea Bream.

BREAM
Bream, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Breamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Breaming.] Etym:
[Cf. Broom, and G. ein schiff brennen.] (Naut.)

Defn: To clean, as a ship's bottom of adherent shells, seaweed, etc.,
by the application of fire and scraping.

BREAST
Breast, n. Etym: [OE. brest, breost, As. breóst; akin to Icel. brj,
Sw. bröst, Dan. bryst, Goth. brusts, OS. briost, D. borst, G. brust.]

1. The fore part of the body, between the neck and the belly; the
chest; as, the breast of a man or of a horse.

2. Either one of the protuberant glands, situated on the front of the
chest or thorax in the female of man and of some other mammalia, in
which milk is secreted for the nourishment of the young; a mammma; a
teat.
My brother, that sucked the breasts of my mother. Cant. viii. 1.

3. Anything resembling the human breast, or bosom; the front or
forward part of anything; as, a chimney breast; a plow breast; the
breast of a hill.
Mountains on whose barren breast The laboring clouds do often rest.
Milton.

4. (Mining)
(a) The face of a coal working.
(b) The front of a furnace.

5. The seat of consciousness; the repository of thought and self-
consciousness, or of secrets; the seat of the affections and
passions; the heart.
He has a loyal breast. Shak.

6. The power of singing; a musical voice; -- so called, probably,
from the connection of the voice with the lungs, which lie within the
breast. [Obs.]
By my troth, the fool has an excellent breast. Shak.
Breast drill, a portable drilling machine, provided with a
breastplate, for forcing the drill against the work.
 -- Breast pang. See Angina pectoris, under Angina.
 -- To make a clean breast, to disclose the secrets which weigh upon
one; to make full confession.

BREAST
Breast, v. t. [imp. & p. p.Breasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Breasted.]

Defn: To meet, with the breast; to struggle with or oppose manfully;
as, to breast the storm or waves.
The court breasted the popular current by sustaining the demurrer.
Wirt.
To breast up a hedge, to cut the face of it on one side so as to lay
bare the principal upright stems of the plants.

BREASTBAND
Breast"band`, n.

Defn: A band for the breast. Specifically: (Naut.) A band of canvas,
or a rope, fastened at both ends to the rigging, to support the man
who heaves the lead in sounding.

BREASTBEAM
Breast"beam`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: The front transverse beam of a locomotive.

BREASTBONE
Breast"bone`, n.

Defn: The bone of the breast; the sternum.

BREAST-DEEP
Breast"-deep`, a.

Defn: Deep as from the breast to the feet; as high as the breast.
See him breast-deep in earth, and famish him. Shak.

BREASTED
Breast"ed, a.

Defn: Having a breast; -- used in composition with qualifying words,
in either a literal or a metaphorical sense; as, a single-breasted
coat.
The close minister is buttoned up, and the brave officer open-
breasted, on these occasions. Spectator.

BREASTFAST
Breast"fast`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A large rope to fasten the midship part of a ship to a wharf,
or to another vessel.

BREASTHEIGHT
Breast"height`, n.

Defn: The interior slope of a fortification, against which the
garnison lean in firing.

BREAST-HIGH
Breast"-high`, a.

Defn: High as the breast.

BREASTHOOK
Breast"hook`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A thick piece of timber in the form of a knee, placed across
the stem of a ship to strengthen the fore part and unite the bows on
each side. Totten.

BREASTING
Breast"ing, n. (Mach.)

Defn: The curved channel in which a breast wheel turns. It is closely
adapted to the curve of the wheel through about a quarter of its
circumference, and prevents the escape of the water until it has
spent its force upon the wheel. See Breast wheel.

BREASTKNOT
Breast"knot`, n.

Defn: A pin worn of the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; a
brooch.

BREASTPIN
Breast"pin` (brest"pin`), n.

Defn: A pin worn on the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; a
brooch.

BREASTPLATE
Breast"plate`, n.

1. A plate of metal covering the breast as defensive armor.
Before his old rusty breastplate could be scoured, and his cracked
headpiece mended. Swift.

2. A piece against which the workman presses his breast in operating
a breast drill, or other similar tool.

3. A strap that runs across a horse's breast. Ash.

4. (Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: A part of the vestment of the high priest, worn upon the front
of the ephod. It was a double piece of richly embroidered stuff, a
span square, set with twelve precious stones, on which were engraved
the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. See Ephod.

BREASTPLOW; BREASTPLOUGH
Breast"plow`, Breast"plough`, n.

Defn: A kind of plow, driven by the breast of the workman; -- used to
cut or pare turf.

BREASTRAIL
Breast"rail`, n.

Defn: The upper rail of any parapet of ordinary height, as of a
balcony; the railing of a quarter-deck, etc.

BREASTROPE
Breast"rope`, n.

Defn: See Breastband.

BREASTSUMMER
Breast"sum`mer, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A summer or girder extending across a building flush with, and
supporting, the upper part of a front or external wall; a long
lintel; a girder; -- used principally above shop windows. [Written
also brestsummer and bressummer.]

BREASTWHEEL
Breast"wheel`, n.

Defn: A water wheel, on which the stream of water strikes neither so
high as in the overshot wheel, nor so low as in the undershot, but
generally at about half the height of the wheel, being kept in
contact with it by the breasting. The water acts on the float boards
partly by impulse, partly by its weight.

BREASTWORK
Breast"work`, n.

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A defensive work of moderate height, hastily thrown up, of
earth or other material.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A railing on the quarter-deck and forecastle.

BREATH
Breath, n. Etym: [OE. breth, breeth, AS. br odor, scent, breath; cf.
OHG. bradam steam, vapor, breath, G. brodem, and possibly E. Brawn,
and Breed.]

1. The air inhaled and exhaled in respiration, air which, in the
process of respiration, has parted with oxygen and has received
carbonic acid, aqueous vapor, warmth, etc.
Melted as breath into the wind. Shak.

2. The act of breathing naturally or freely; the power or capacity to
breathe freely; as, I am out of breath.

3. The power of respiration, and hence, life. Hood.
Thou takest away their breath, they die. Ps. civ. 29.

4. Time to breathe; respite; pause.
Give me some breath, some little pause. Shak.

5. A single respiration, or the time of making it; a single act; an
instant.
He smiles and he frowns in a breath. Dryden.

6. Fig.: That which gives or strengthens life.
The earthquake voice of victory, To thee the breath of life. Byron.

7. A single word; the slightest effort; a triffle.
A breath can make them, as a breath has made. Goldsmith.

8. A very slight breeze; air in gentle motion.
Calm and unruffled as a summer's sea, when not a breath of wind flies
o'er its surface. Addison.

9. Fragrance; exhalation; odor; perfume. Tennison.
The breath of flowers. Bacon.

10. Gentle exercise, causing a quicker respiration.
An after dinner's breath. Shak.
Out of breath, breathless, exhausted; breathing with difficulty.
 -- Under one's breath, in low tones.

BREATHABLE
Breath"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be breathed.

BREATHABLENESS
Breath"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: State of being breathable.

BREATHE
Breathe, v. i. [imp. & p. p Breathed; p. pr. & vb. n. Breathing.]
Etym: [From Breath.]

1. To respire; to inhale and exhale air; hence;, to live. "I am in
health, I breathe." Shak.
Breathes there a man with soul so dead Sir W. Scott.

2. To take breath; to rest from action.
Well! breathe awhile, and then to it again! Shak.

3. To pass like breath; noiselessly or gently; to exhale; to emanate;
to blow gently.
The air breathes upon us here most sweetly. Shak.
There breathes a living fragrance from the shore. Byron.

BREATHE
Breathe, v. t.

1. To inhale and exhale in the process of respiration; to respire.
To view the light of heaven, and breathe the vital air. Dryden.

2. To inject by breathing; to infuse; -- with into.
Able to breathe life into a stone. Shak.
And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed
into his nostrils the breath of life. Gen. ii. 7.

3. To emit or utter by the breath; to utter softly; to whisper; as,
to breathe a vow.
He softly breathed thy name. Dryden.
Or let the church, our mother, breathe her curse, A mother's curse,
on her revolting son. Shak.

4. To exhale; to emit, as breath; as, the flowers breathe odors or
perfumes.

5. To express; to manifest; to give forth.
Others articles breathe the same severe spirit. Milner.

6. To act upon by the breath; to cause to sound by breathing. "They
breathe the flute." Prior.

7. To promote free respiration in; to exercise.
And every man should beat thee. I think thou wast created for men to
breathe themselves upon thee. Shak.

8. To suffer to take breath, or recover the natural breathing; to
rest; as, to breathe a horse.
A moment breathed his panting steed. Sir W. Scott.

9. To put out of breath; to exhaust.
Mr. Tulkinghorn arrives in his turret room, a little breathed by the
journey up. Dickens.

10. (Phonetics)

Defn: To utter without vocality, as the nonvocal consonants.
The same sound may be pronounces either breathed, voiced, or
whispered. H. Sweet.
Breathed elements, being already voiceless, remain unchanged

Note: [in whispering]. H. Sweet.
To breathe again, to take breath; to feel a sense of relief, as from
danger, responsibility, or press of business.
 -- To breathe one's last, to die; to expire.
 -- To breathe a vein, to open a vein; to let blood. Dryden.

BREATHER
Breath"er, n.

1. One who breathes. Hence: (a) One who lives.(b) One who utters. (c)
One who animates or inspires.

2. That which puts one out of breath, as violent exercise. [Colloq.]

BREATHFUL
Breath"ful, a.

Defn: Full of breath; full of odor; fragrant. [Obs.]

BREATHING
Breath"ing, n.

1. Respiration; the act of inhaling and exhaling air.
Subject to a difficulty of breathing. Melmoth.

2. Air in gentle motion.

3. Any gentle influence or operation; inspiration; as, the breathings
of the Spirit.

4. Aspiration; secret prayer. "Earnest desires and breathings after
that blessed state." Tillotson.

5. Exercising; promotion of respiration.
Here is a lady that wants breathing too; And I have heard, you
knights of Tyre Are excellent in making ladies trip. Shak.

6. Utterance; communication or publicity by words.
I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose. Shak.

7. Breathing place; vent. Dryden.

8. Stop; pause; delay.
You shake the head at so long a breathing. Shak.

9. Also, in a wider sense, the sound caused by the friction of the
outgoing breath in the throat, mouth, etc., when the glottis is wide
open; aspiration; the sound expressed by the letter h.

10. (Gr. Gram.)

Defn: A mark to indicate aspiration or its absence. See Rough
breathing, Smooth breathing, below. Breathing place. (a) A pause.
"That cæsura, or breathing place, in the midst of the verse." Sir P.
Sidney. (b) A vent.
 -- Breathing time, pause; relaxation. Bp. Hall.
 -- Breathing while, time sufficient for drawing breath; a short
time. Shak.
 -- Rough breathing (spiritus asper) (. See 2d Asper, n.
 -- Smooth breathing (spiritus lenis), a mark (') indicating the
absence of the sound of h, as in 'ie`nai (ienai).

BREATHLESS
Breath"less, a.

1. Spent with labor or violent action; out of breath.

2. Not breathing; holding the breath, on account of fear,
expectation, or intense interest; attended with a holding of the
breath; as, breathless attention.
But breathless, as we grow when feeling most. Byron.

3. Dead; as, a breathless body.

BREATHLESSLY
Breath"less*ly, adv.

Defn: In a breathless manner.

BREATHLESSNESS
Breath"less*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being breathless or out of breath.

BRECCIA
Brec"cia, n. Etym: [It., breach, pebble, fragments of stone, fr. F.
brèche; of German origin. See Breach.] (Geol.)

Defn: A rock composed of angular fragments either of the same mineral
or of different minerals, etc., united by a cement, and commonly
presenting a variety of colors. Bone breccia, a breccia containing
bones, usually fragmentary.
 -- Coin breccia, a breccia containing coins.

BRECCIATED
Brec"ci*a`ted, a.

Defn: Consisting of angular fragments cemented together; resembling
breccia in appearance.
The brecciated appearance of many specimens [of meteorites]. H. A.
Newton.

BRED
Bred,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Breed. Bred out, degenerated. "The strain of
man's bred out into baboon and monkey." Shak.
 -- Bred to arms. See under Arms.
 -- Well bred. (a) Of a good family; having a good pedigree. "A
gentleman well bred and of good name." Shak. [Obs., except as applied
to domestic animals.] (b) Well brought up, as shown in having good
manners; cultivated; refined; polite.

BREDE; BREEDE
Brede, or Breede, n.

Defn: Breadth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BREDE
Brede, n. Etym: [See Braid woven cord.]

Defn: A braid. [R.]
Half lapped in glowing gauze and golden brede. Tennyson.

BREECH
Breech, n. Etym: [See Breeches.]

1. The lower part of the body behind; the buttocks.

2. Breeches. [Obs.] Shak.

3. The hinder part of anything; esp., the part of a cannon, or other
firearm, behind the chamber.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: The external angle of knee timber, the inside of which is
called the throat.

BREECH
Breech, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Breeched; p. pr. & vb. n. Breeching.]

1. To put into, or clothe with, breeches.
A great man . . . anxious to know whether the blacksmith's youngest
boy was breeched. Macaulay.

2. To cover as with breeches. [Poetic]
Their daggers unmannerly breeched with gore. Shak.

3. To fit or furnish with a breech; as, to breech a gun.

4. To whip on the breech. [Obs.]
Had not a courteous serving man conveyed me away, whilst he went to
fetch whips, I think, in my conscience, he would have breeched me.
Old Play.

5. To fasten with breeching.

BREECH ACTION
Breech action.

Defn: The breech mechanism in breech-loading small arms and certain
special guns, as automatic and machine guns; --used frequently in
referring to the method by which the movable barrels of breech-
loading shotguns are locked, unlocked, or rotated to loading
position.

BREECHBLOCK
Breech"block, n.

Defn: The movable piece which closes the breech of a breech-loading
firearm, and resists the backward force of the discharge. It is
withdrawn for the insertion of a cartridge, and closed again before
the gun is fired.

BREECHCLOTH
Breech"cloth`, n.

Defn: A cloth worn around the breech.

BREECHES
Breech"es, n. pl. Etym: [OE. brech, brek, AS. brek, pl. of broc
breech, breeches; akin to Icel. brok breeches, ODan. brog, D. broek,
G. bruch; cf. L. bracae, braccae, which is of Celtic origin. Cf.
Brail.]

1. A garment worn by men, covering the hips and thighs; smallclothes.
His jacket was red, and his breeches were blue. Coleridge.

2. Trousers; pantaloons. [Colloq.] Breeches buoy, in the life-saving
service, a pair of canvas breeches depending from an annular or
beltlike life buoy which is usually of cork. This contrivance,
inclosing the person to be rescued, is hung by short ropes from a
block which runs upon the hawser stretched from the ship to the
shore, and is drawn to land by hauling lines.
 -- Breeches pipe, a forked pipe forming two branches united at one
end.
 -- Knee breeches, breeches coming to the knee, and buckled or
fastened there; smallclothes.
 -- To wear the breeches, to usurp the authority of the husband; --
said of a wife. [Colloq.]

BREECHING
Breech"ing, n.

1. A whipping on the breech, or the act of whipping on the breech.
I view the prince with Aristarchus' eyes, Whose looks were as a
breeching to a boy. Marlowe.

2. That part of a harness which passes round the breech of a horse,
enabling him to hold back a vehicle.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A strong rope rove through the cascabel of a cannon and secured
to ringbolts in the ship's side, to limit the recoil of the gun when
it is discharged.

4. The sheet iron casing at the end of boilers to convey the smoke
from the flues to the smokestack.

BREECHLOADER
Breech"load`er, n.

Defn: A firearm which receives its load at the breech.
For cavalry, the revolver and breechloader will supersede the saber.
Rep. Sec. War (1860).

BREECH-LOADING
Breech"-load`ing, a.

Defn: Receiving the charge at the breech instead of at the muzzle.

BREECH PIN; BREECH SCREW
Breech" pin`, Breech" screw`.

Defn: A strong iron or steel plug screwed into the breech of a musket
or other firearm, to close the bottom of the bore.

BREECH SIGHT
Breech" sight`.

Defn: A device attached to the breech of a firearm, to guide the eye,
in conjunction with the front sight, in taking aim.

BREED
Breed, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bred; p. pr. & vb. n. Breeding.] Etym:
[OE. breden, AS. bredan to nourish, cherish, keep warm, from brod
brood; akin to D. broeden to brood, OHG. bruoten, G. brüten. See
Brood.]

1. To produce as offspring; to bring forth; to bear; to procreate; to
generate; to beget; to hatch.
Yet every mother breeds not sons alike. Shak.
If the sun breed maggots in a dead dog. Shak.

2. To take care of in infancy, and through the age of youth; to bring
up; to nurse and foster.
To bring thee forth with pain, with care to breed. Dryden.
Born and bred on the verge of the wilderness. Everett.

3. To educate; to instruct; to form by education; to train; --
sometimes followed by up.
But no care was taken to breed him a Protestant. Bp. Burnet.
His farm may not remove his children too far from him, or the trade
he breeds them up in. Locke.

4. To engender; to cause; to occasion; to originate; to produce; as,
to breed a storm; to breed disease.
Lest the place And my quaint habits breed astonishment. Milton.

5. To give birth to; to be the native place of; as, a pond breeds
fish; a northern country breeds stout men.

6. To raise, as any kind of stock.

7. To produce or obtain by any natural process. [Obs.]
Children would breed their teeth with less danger. Locke.

Syn.
 -- To engender; generate; beget; produce; hatch; originate; bring
up; nourish; train; instruct.

BREED
Breed, v. i.

1. To bear and nourish young; to reproduce or multiply itself; to be
pregnant.
That they breed abundantly in the earth. Gen. viii. 17.
The mother had never bred before. Carpenter.
Ant. Is your gold and silver ewes and rams Shy. I can not tell. I
make it breed as fast. Shak.

2. To be formed in the parent or dam; to be generated, or to grow, as
young before birth.

3. To have birth; to be produced or multiplied.
Heavens rain grace On that which breeds between them. Shak.

4. To raise a breed; to get progeny.
The kind of animal which you wish to breed from. Gardner.
To breed in and in, to breed from animals of the same stock that are
closely related.

BREED
Breed, n.

1. A race or variety of men or other animals (or of plants),
perpetuating its special or distinctive characteristics by
inheritance.
Twice fifteen thousand hearts of England's breed. Shak.
Greyhounds of the best breed. Carpenter.

2. Class; sort; kind; -- of men, things, or qualities.
Are these the breed of wits so wondered at Shak.
This courtesy is not of the right breed. Shak.

3. A number produced at once; a brood. [Obs.]

Note: Breed is usually applied to domestic animals; species or
variety to wild animals and to plants; and race to men.

BREEDBATE
Breed"bate, n.

Defn: One who breeds or originates quarrels. [Obs.] "No telltale nor
no breedbate." Shak.

BREEDER
Breed"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, breeds, produces, brings up, etc.
She was a great breeder. Dr. A. Carlyle.
Italy and Rome have been the best breeders of worthy men. Ascham.

2. A cause. "The breeder of my sorrow." Shak.

BREEDING
Breed"ing, n.

1. The act or process of generating or bearing.

2. The raising or improving of any kind of domestic animals; as,
farmers should pay attention to breeding.

3. Nurture; education; formation of manners.
She had her breeding at my father's charge. Shak.

4. Deportment or behavior in the external offices and decorums of
social life; manners; knowledge of, or training in, the ceremonies,
or polite observances of society.
Delicacy of breeding, or that polite deference and respect which
civility obliges us either to express or counterfeit towards the
persons with whom we converse. Hume.

5. Descent; pedigree; extraction. [Obs.]
Honest gentlemen, I know not your breeding. Shak.
Close breeding, In and in breeding, breeding from a male and female
from the same parentage.
 -- Cross breeding, breeding from a male and female of different
lineage.
 -- Good breeding, politeness; genteel deportment.

Syn.
 -- Education; instruction; nurture; training; manners. See
Education.

BREEZE; BREEZE FLY
Breeze, Breeze" fly` (, n. Etym: [OE. brese, AS. briósa; perh. akin
to OHG. brimissa, G. breme, bremse, D. brems, which are akin to G.
brummen to growl, buzz, grumble, L. fremere to murmur; cf. G.
brausen, Sw. brusa, Dan. bruse, to roar, rush.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fly of various species, of the family Tabanidæ, noted for
buzzing about animals, and tormenting them by sucking their blood; --
called also horsefly, and gadfly. They are among the largest of two-
winged or dipterous insects. The name is also given to different
species of botflies. [Written also breese and brize.]

BREEZE
Breeze, n. Etym: [F. brise; akin to It. brezza breeze, Sp. briza,
brisa, a breeze from northeast, Pg. briza northeast wind; of
uncertain origin; cf. F. bise, Pr. bisa, OHG. bisa, north wind, Arm.
biz northeast wind.]

1. A light, gentle wind; a fresh, soft-blowing wind.
Into a gradual calm the breezes sink. Wordsworth.

2. An excited or ruffed state of feeling; a flurry of excitement; a
disturbance; a quarrel; as, the discovery produced a breeze.
[Colloq.] Land breeze, a wind blowing from the land, generally at
night.
 -- Sea breeze, a breeze or wind blowing, generally in the daytime,
from the sea.

BREEZE
Breeze, n. Etym: [F. braise cinders, live coals. See Brasier.]

1. Refuse left in the process of making coke or burning charcoal.

2. (Brickmaking)

Defn: Refuse coal, coal ashes, and cinders, used in the burning of
bricks.

BREEZE
Breeze, v. i.

Defn: To blow gently. [R.] J. Barlow. To breeze up (Naut.), to blow
with increasing freshness.

BREEZELESS
Breeze"less, a.

Defn: Motionless; destitute of breezes.
A stagnant, breezeless air becalms my soul. Shenstone.

BREEZINESS
Breez"i*ness, n.

Defn: State of being breezy.

BREEZY
Breez"y, a.

1. Characterized by, or having, breezes; airy. "A breezy day in May."
Coleridge.
'Mid lawns and shades by breezy rivulets fanned. Wordsworth.

2. Fresh; brisk; full of life. [Colloq.]

BREGMA
Breg"ma, n. Etym: [Gr. bregma.] (Anat.)

Defn: The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures of
the skull.

BREGMATIC
Breg*mat"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the bregma.

BREHON
Bre"hon, n. Etym: [Ir. breitheamh judge.]

Defn: An ancient Irish or Scotch judge. Brehon laws, the ancient
Irish laws, -- unwritten, like the common law of England. They were
abolished by statute of Edward III.

BRELAN
Bre*lan", n. [F.] (Card Playing)
 (a) A French gambling game somewhat like poker.
 (b) In French games, a pair royal, or triplet.

BRELAN CARRE
Bre*lan" car`re". [F. carré square.] (Card Playing)

Defn: In French games, a double pair royal.

BRELAN FAVORI
Bre*lan" fa`vo`ri". [F. favori favorite.] (Card Playing)

Defn: In French games, a pair royal composed of 2 cards in the hand
and the card turned.

BRELOQUE
Bre*loque", n. [F.]

Defn: A seal or charm for a watch chain. "His chains and breloques."
Thackeray.

BREME
Breme, a. Etym: [OE. breme, brime, fierce, impetuous, glorious, AS.
breme, br, famous. Cf. Brim, a.]

1. Fierce; sharp; severe; cruel. [Obs.] Spenser.
From the septentrion cold, in the breme freezing air. Drayton.

2. Famous; renowned; well known. Wright. [Written also brim and
brimme.]

BREN; BRENNE
Bren, Bren"ne, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Brent (p. pr. & vb. n.
Brenning.] Etym: [See Burn.]

Defn: To burn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Consuming fire brent his shearing house or stall. W. Browne.

BREN
Bren, n.

Defn: Bran. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BRENNAGE
Bren"nage, n. Etym: [OF. brenage; cf. LL. brennagium, brenagium. See
Bran.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: A tribute which tenants paid to their lord, in lieu of bran,
which they were obliged to furnish for his hounds.

BRENNINGLY
Bren"ning*ly, adv.

Defn: Burningly; ardently. [Obs.]

BRENT; BRANT
Brent, Brant, a. Etym: [AS. brant; akin to Dan. brat, Icel. brattr,
steep.]

1. Steep; high. [Obs.]
Grapes grow on the brant rocks so wonderfully that ye will marvel how
any man dare climb up to them. Ascham.

2. Smooth; unwrinkled. [Scot.]
Your bonnie brow was brent. Burns.

BRENT
Brent, imp. & p.p.

Defn: of Bren. Burnt. [Obs.]

BRENT
Brent, n. Etym: [Cf. Brant.]

Defn: A brant. See Brant.

BREQUET CHAIN
Breq"uet chain`.

Defn: A watch-guard.

BRERE
Brere, n.

Defn: A brier. [Archaic] Chaucer.

BREST
Brest, 3d sing.pr.

Defn: for Bursteth. [Obs.]

BREST; BREAST
Brest, Breast, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A torus. [Obs.]

BRESTE
Bres"te, v. t. & i. [imp. Brast; p. p. Brusten, Borsten, Bursten.]

Defn: To burst. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BRESTSUMMER
Brest"sum`mer, n.

Defn: See Breastsummer.

BRET
Bret, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Birt.

BRETFUL
Bret"ful, a. Etym: [OE. also brerdful, fr. brerd top, brim, AS.
brerd.]

Defn: Brimful. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BRETHREN
Breth"ren, n.;

Defn: pl. of Brother.

Note: This form of the plural is used, for the most part, in solemn
address, and in speaking of religious sects or fraternities, or their
members.

BRETON
Bret"on, a. Etym: [F. breton.]

Defn: Of or relating to Brittany, or Bretagne, in France.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Brittany, or Bretagne, in France;
also, the ancient language of Brittany; Armorican.

BRETT
Brett, n.

Defn: Same as Britzska.

BRETTICE
Bret"tice, n.; pl. Brettices. Etym: [OE. bretasce, bretage, parapet,
OF. bretesche wooden tower, F. bretèche, LL. breteschia, bertresca,
prob. fr. OHG. bret, G. brett board; akin to E. board. See Board, n.,
and cf. Bartizan.]

Defn: The wooden boarding used in supporting the roofs and walls of
coal mines. See Brattice.

BRETWALDA
Bret"wal*da, n. Etym: [AS. Bretwalda, br, a powerful ruler.] (Eng.
Hist.)

Defn: The official title applied to that one of the Anglo-Saxon
chieftains who was chosen by the other chiefs to lead them in their
warfare against the British tribes. Brande & C.

BRETZEL
Bret"zel, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: See Pretzel.

BREVE
Breve, n. Etym: [It. & (in sense 2) LL. breve, fr. L. brevis short.
See Brief.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A note or character of time, equivalent to two semibreves or
four minims. When dotted, it is equal to three semibreves. It was
formerly of a square figure (as thus: Moore.

2. (Law)

Defn: Any writ or precept under seal, issued out of any court.

3. (Print.)

Defn: A curved mark [&breve;] used commonly to indicate the short
quantity of a vowel.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The great ant thrush of Sumatra (Pitta gigas), which has a very
short tail.

BREVET
Bre*vet", n. Etym: [F. brevet, LL. brevetum, fr. L. brevis short. See
Brief.]

1. A warrant from the government, granting a privilege, title, or
dignity. [French usage].

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A commission giving an officer higher rank than that for which
he receives pay; an honorary promotion of an officer.

Note: In the United States army, rank by brevet is conferred, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate, for "gallant actions or
meritorious services." A brevet rank gives no right of command in the
particular corps to which the officer brevetted belongs, and can be
exercised only by special assignment of the President, or on court
martial, and detachments composed of different corps, with pay of the
brevet rank when on such duty.

BREVET
Bre*vet", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Brevetted (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Brevetting.] (Mil.)

Defn: To confer rank upon by brevet.

BREVET
Bre*vet", a. (Mil.)

Defn: Taking or conferring rank by brevet; as, a brevet colonel; a
brevet commission.

BREVETCY
Bre*vet"cy, n.; pl. Brevetcies (. (Mil.)

Defn: The rank or condition of a brevet officer.

BREVIARY
Bre"vi*a*ry, n.; pl. Breviaries (. Etym: [F. bréviarie, L. breviarium
summary, abridgment, neut. noun fr. breviarius abridged, fr. brevis
short. See Brief, and cf. Brevier.]

1. An abridgment; a compend; an epitome; a brief account or summary.
A book entitled the abridgment or breviary of those roots that are to
be cut up or gathered. Holland.

2. A book containing the daily public or canonical prayers of the
Roman Catholic or of the Greek Church for the seven canonical hours,
namely, matins and lauds, the first, third, sixth, and ninth hours,
vespers, and compline; -- distinguished from the missal.

BREVIATE
Bre"vi*ate, n. Etym: [L. breviatus, p.p. of breviare to shorten,
brevis short.]

1. A short compend; a summary; a brief statement.
I omit in this breviate to rehearse. Hakluyt.
The same little breviates of infidelity have . . . been published and
dispersed with great activity. Bp. Porteus.

2. A lawyer's brief. [R.] Hudibras.

BREVIATE
Bre"vi*ate, v. t.

Defn: To abbreviate. [Obs.]

BREVIATURE
Bre"vi*a*ture, n.

Defn: An abbreviature; an abbreviation. [Obs.] Johnson.

BREVIER
Bre*vier", n. Etym: [Prob. from being originally used in printing a
breviary. See Breviary.] (Print.)

Defn: A size of type between bourgeous and minion.

Note: This line is printed in brevier type.

BREVILOQUENCE
Bre*vil"o*quence, n. Etym: [L. breviloquentia.]

Defn: A brief and pertinent mode of speaking. [R.]

BREVIPED
Brev"i*ped, a. Etym: [L. brevis short + pes, pedis, foot: cf. F.
brévipède.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having short legs.
 -- n.

Defn: A breviped bird.

BREVIPEN
Brev"i*pen, n. Etym: [L. brevis short + penna wing: cf. F.
brévipenne.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A brevipennate bird.

BREVIPENNATE
Brev`i*pen"nate, a. Etym: [L. brevis short + E. pennate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Short-winged; -- applied to birds which can not fly, owing to
their short wings, as the ostrich, cassowary, and emu.

BREVIROSTRAL; BREVIROSTRATE
Brev`i*ros"tral, Brev`i*ros"trate, a. Etym: [L. brevis short + E.
rostral, rostrate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Short-billed; having a short beak.

BREVITY
Brev"i*ty, n.; pl. Brevities. Etym: [L. brevitas, fr. brevis short:
cf. F. brièvité. See Brief.]

1. Shortness of duration; briefness of time; as, the brevity of human
life.

2. Contraction into few words; conciseness.
Brevity is the soul of wit. Shak.
This argument is stated by St. John with his usual elegant brevity
and simplicity. Bp. Porteus.

Syn.
 -- Shortness; conciseness; succinctness; terseness.

BREW
Brew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Brewed; p. pr. & vb. n. Brewing.] Etym:
[OE. brewen, AS. breówan; akin to D. brouwen, OHG. priuwan, MHG.
briuwen, br, G. brauen, Icel. brugga, Sw. brygga, Dan. brygge, and
perh. to L. defrutum must boiled down, Gr. to prepare by heat. sq.
root93. Cf. Broth, Bread.]

1. To boil or seethe; to cook. [Obs.]

2. To prepare, as beer or other liquor, from malt and hops, or from
other materials, by steeping, boiling, and fermentation. "She brews
good ale." Shak.

3. To prepare by steeping and mingling; to concoct.
Go, brew me a pottle of sack finely. Shak.

4. To foment or prepare, as by brewing; to contrive; to plot; to
concoct; to hatch; as, to brew mischief.
Hence with thy brewed enchantments, foul deceiver! Milton.

BREW
Brew, v. i.

1. To attend to the business, or go through the processes, of brewing
or making beer.
I wash, wring, brew, bake, scour. Shak.

2. To be in a state of preparation; to be mixing, forming, or
gathering; as, a storm brews in the west.
There is some ill a-brewing towards my rest. Shak.

BREW
Brew, n.

Defn: The mixture formed by brewing; that which is brewed. Bacon.

BREWAGE
Brew"age, n.

Defn: Malt liquor; drink brewed. "Some well-spiced brewage." Milton.
A rich brewage, made of the best Spanish wine. Macaulay.

BREWER
Brew"er, n.

Defn: One who brews; one whose occupation is to prepare malt liquors.

BREWERY
Brew"er*y, n.

Defn: A brewhouse; the building and apparatus where brewing is
carried on.

BREWHOUSE
Brew"house`, n.

Defn: A house or building appropriated to brewing; a brewery.

BREWING
Brew"ing, n.

1. The act or process of preparing liquors which are brewed, as beer
and ale.

2. The quantity brewed at once.
A brewing of new beer, set by old beer. Bacon.

3. A mixing together.
I am not able to avouch anything for certainty, such a brewing and
sophistication of them they make. Holland.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A gathering or forming of a storm or squall, indicated by
thick, dark clouds.

BREWIS
Brew"is, n. Etym: [OE. brewis, brouwys, browesse, brewet, OF. brouet,
-s being the OF. ending of the nom. sing. and acc. pl.; dim. of OHG.
brod. sq. root93. See Broth, and cf. Brose.]

1. Broth or pottage. [Obs.]
Let them of their Bonner's "beef" and "broth" make what brewis they
please for their credulous guests. Bp. Hall.

2. Bread soaked in broth, drippings of roast meat, milk, or water and
butter.

BREWSTERITE
Brews"ter*ite, n. Etym: [Named after Sir David Brewster.]

Defn: A rare zeolitic mineral occurring in white monoclinic crystals
with pearly luster. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia, baryta, and
strontia.

BREZILIN
Brez"i*lin, n.

Defn: See Brazilin.

BRIAR
Bri"ar, n.

Defn: Same as Brier.

BRIAREAN
Bri*a"re*an, a. Etym: [L. Briareius, fr. Briareus a mythological
hundred-handed giant, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, Briareus, a giant fabled to have
a hundred hands; hence, hundred-handed or many-handed.

BRIBABLE
Brib"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being bribed.
A more bribable class of electors. S. Edwards.

BRIBE
Bribe, n. Etym: [F. bribe a lump of bread, scraps, leavings of meals
(that are generally given to a beggar), LL. briba scrap of bread; cf.
OF. briber, brifer, to eat gluttonously, to beg, and OHG. bilibi
food.]

1. A gift begged; a present. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A price, reward, gift, or favor bestowed or promised with a view
to prevent the judgment or corrupt the conduct of a judge, witness,
voter, or other person in a position of trust.
Undue reward for anything against justice is a bribe. Hobart.

3. That which seduces; seduction; allurement.
Not the bribes of sordid wealth can seduce to leave these
everAkenside.

BRIBE
Bribe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bribed; p. pr. & vb. n. Bribing.]

1. To rob or steal. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To give or promise a reward or consideration to (a judge, juror,
legislator, voter, or other person in a position of trust) with a
view to prevent the judgment or corrupt the conduct; to induce or
influence by a bribe; to give a bribe to.
Neither is he worthy who bribes a man to vote against his conscience.
F. W. Robertson.

3. To gain by a bribe; of induce as by a bribe.

BRIBE
Bribe, v. i.

1. To commit robbery or theft. [Obs.]

2. To give a bribe to a person; to pervert the judgment or corrupt
the action of a person in a position of trust, by some gift or
promise.
An attempt to bribe, though unsuccessful, has been holden to be
criminal, and the offender may be indicted. Bouvier.
The bard may supplicate, but cannot bribe. Goldsmith.

BRIBELESS
Bribe"less, a.

Defn: Incapable of being bribed; free from bribes.
From thence to heaven's bribeless hall. Sir W. Raleigh.

BRIBER
Brib"er, n.

1. A thief. [Obs.] Lydgate.

2. One who bribes, or pays for corrupt practices.

3. That which bribes; a bribe.
His service . . . were a sufficient briber for his life. Shak.

BRIBERY
Brib"er*y, n.; pl. Briberies. Etym: [OE. brybery rascality, OF.
briberie. See Bribe, n.]

1. Robbery; extortion. [Obs.]

2. The act or practice of giving or taking bribes; the act of
influencing the official or political action of another by corrupt
inducements. Bribery oath, an oath taken by a person that he has not
been bribed as to voting. [Eng.]

BRIC-A BRAC; BRIC-A-BRAC; BRIC A BRAC
Bric"-a brac`, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Miscellaneous curiosities and works of decorative art,
considered collectively. A piece of bric-a-brac, any curious or
antique article of virtu, as a piece of antiquated furniture or metal
work, or an odd knickknack.

BRICK
Brick, n. Etym: [OE. brik, F. brique; of Ger. origin; cf. AS. brice a
breaking, fragment, Prov. E. brique piece, brique de pain, equiv. to
AS. hlafes brice, fr. the root of E. break. See Break.]

1. A block or clay tempered with water, sand, etc., molded into a
regular form, usually rectangular, and sun-dried, or burnt in a kiln,
or in a heap or stack called a clamp.
The Assyrians appear to have made much less use of bricks baked in
the furnace than the Babylonians. Layard.

2. Bricks, collectively, as designating that kind of material; as, a
load of brick; a thousand of brick.
Some of Palladio's finest examples are of brick. Weale.

3. Any oblong rectangular mass; as, a brick of maple sugar; a penny
brick (of bread).

4. A good fellow; a merry person; as, you 're a brick. [Slang] "He 's
a dear little brick." Thackeray. To have a brick in one's hat, to be
drunk. [Slang]

Note: Brick is used adjectively or in combination; as, brick wall;
brick clay; brick color; brick red. Brick clay, clay suitable for, or
used in making, bricks.
 -- Brick dust, dust of pounded or broken bricks.
 -- Brick earth, clay or earth suitable for, or used in making,
bricks.
 -- Brick loaf, a loaf of bread somewhat resembling a brick in shape.
 -- Brick nogging (Arch.), rough brickwork used to fill in the spaces
between the uprights of a wooden partition; brick filling.
 -- Brick tea, tea leaves and young shoots, or refuse tea, steamed or
mixed with fat, etc., and pressed into the form of bricks. It is used
in Northern and Central Asia. S. W. Williams.
 -- Brick trimmer (Arch.), a brick arch under a hearth, usually
within the thickness of a wooden floor, to guard against accidents by
fire.
 -- Brick trowel. See Trowel.
 -- Brick works, a place where bricks are made.
 -- Bath brick. See under Bath, a city.
 -- Pressed brick, bricks which, before burning, have been subjected
to pressure, to free them from the imperfections of shape and texture
which are common in molded bricks.

BRICK
Brick, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bricked; p. pr. & vb. n. Bricking.]

1. To lay or pave with bricks; to surround, line, or construct with
bricks.

2. To imitate or counterfeit a brick wall on, as by smearing plaster
with red ocher, making the joints with an edge tool, and pointing
them. To brick up, to fill up, inclose, or line, with brick.

BRICKBAT
Brick"bat`, n.

Defn: A piece or fragment of a brick. See Bat, 4. Bacon.

BRICKFIELDER
Brick"field`er, n. [Australia]

1.

Defn: Orig., at Sydney, a cold and violent south or southwest wind,
rising suddenly, and regularly preceded by a hot wind from the north;
-- now usually called southerly buster. It blew across the
Brickfields, formerly so called, a district of Sydney, and carried
clouds of dust into the city.

2.  By confusion, a midsummer hot wind from the north.

BRICKKILN
Brick"kiln`, n.

Defn: A kiln, or furnace, in which bricks are baked or burnt; or a
pile of green bricks, laid loose, with arches underneath to receive
the wood or fuel for burning them.

BRICKLAYER
Brick"lay`er, n. Etym: [Brick + lay.]

Defn: One whose pccupation is to build with bricks. Bricklayer's
itch. See under Itch.

BRICKLAYING
Brick"lay`ing, n.

Defn: The art of building with bricks, or of uniting them by cement
or mortar into various forms; the act or occupation of laying bricks.

BRICKLE
Bric"kle, a. Etym: [OE. brekil, brokel, bruchel, fr. AS. brecan, E.
break. Cf. Brittle.]

Defn: Brittle; easily broken. [Obs. or Prov.] Spenser.
As stubborn steel excels the brickle glass. Turbervile.

BRICKLENESS
Bric"kle*ness, n.

Defn: Brittleness. [Obs.]

BRICKMAKER
Brick"mak`er, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to make bricks.
 -- Brick"mak*ing, n.

BRICKWORK
Brick"work`, n.

1. Anything made of bricks.
Niches in brickwork form the most difficult part of the bricklayer's
art. Tomlinson.

2. The act of building with or laying bricks.

BRICKY
Brick"y, a.

Defn: Full of bricks; formed of bricks; resembling bricks or brick
dust. [R.] Spenser.

BRICKYARD
Brick"yard`, n.

Defn: A place where bricks are made, especially an inclosed place.

BRICOLE
Bri*cole", n. Etym: [F.] (Mil.)

Defn: A kind of traces with hooks and rings, with which men drag and
maneuver guns where horses can not be used.

BRID
Brid, n.

Defn: A bird. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BRIDAL
Brid"al, a. Etym: [From Bride. Cf. Bridal, n.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a bride, or to wedding; nuptial; as, bridal
ornaments; a bridal outfit; a bridal chamber.

BRIDAL
Brid"al, n. Etym: [OE. bridale, brudale, AS. br brideale, bridal
feast. See Bride, and Ale, 2.]

Defn: A nuptia; festival or ceremony; a marriage.
Sweet day, so cool, so calm, so bright, The bridal of the earth and
sky. Herbert.

BRIDALTY
Brid"al*ty, n.

Defn: Celebration of the nuptial feast. [Obs.] "In honor of this
bridalty." B. Jonson.

BRIDE
Bride, n. Etym: [OE. bride, brid, brude, brud, burd, AS. br; akin to
OFries. breid, OSax. br, D. bruid, OHG. pr, br, G. braut, Icel. br,
Sw. & Dan. brud, Goth. br33s; cf. Armor. pried spouse, W. priawd a
married person.]

1. A woman newly married, or about to be married.
Has by his own experience tried How much the wife is dearer than the
bride. Lyttleton.
I will show thee the bride, the Lamb's wife. Rev. xxi. 9.

2. Fig.: An object ardently loved. Bride of the sea, the city of
Venice.

BRIDE
Bride, v. t.

Defn: To make a bride of. [Obs.]

BRIDE-ALE
Bride"-ale`, n. Etym: [See Bridal.]

Defn: A rustic wedding feast; a bridal. See Ale.
The man that 's bid to bride-ale, if he ha' cake, And drink enough,
he need not fear his stake. B. Jonson.

BRIDEBED
Bride"bed`, n.

Defn: The marriage bed. [Poetic]

BRIDECAKE
Bride"cake`, n.

Defn: Rich or highly ornamented cake, to be distributed to the guests
at a wedding, or sent to friends after the wedding.

BRIDECHAMBER
Bride"cham`ber, n.

Defn: The nuptial appartment. Matt. ix. 15.

BRIDEGROOM
Bride"groom`, n. Etym: [OE. bridegome, brudgume, AS. br (akin to OS.
br, D. bruidegom, bruigom, OHG. pr, MHG. briutegome, G. bräutigam);
AS. br bride + guma man, akin to Goth. guma, Icel. gumi, OHG. gomo,
L. homo; the insertion of r being caused by confusion with groom. See
Bride, and cf. Groom, Homage.]

Defn: A man newly married, or just about to be married.

BRIDEKNOT
Bride"knot`, n.

Defn: A knot of ribbons worn by a guest at a wedding; a wedding
favor. [Obs.]

BRIDEMAID; BRIDEMAN
Bride"maid`, n., Bride"man (, n.

Defn: See Bridesmaid, Bridesman.

BRIDESMAID
Brides"maid`, n.

Defn: A female friend who attends on a bride at her wedding.

BRIDESMAN
Brides"man, n.; pl. Bridesmen (.

Defn: A male friend who attends upon a bridegroom and bride at their
marriage; the "best man." Sir W. Scott.

BRIDESTAKE
Bride"stake`, n.

Defn: A stake or post set in the ground, for guests at a wedding to
dance round.
Divide the broad bridecake Round about the bridestake. B. Jonson.

BRIDEWELL
Bride"well, n.

Defn: A house of correction for the confinement of disorderly
persons; -- so called from a hospital built in 1553 near St. Bride's
(or Bridget's) well, in London, which was subsequently a penal
workhouse.

BRIDGE
Bridge, n. Etym: [OE. brig, brigge, brug, brugge, AS. brycg, bricg;
akin to Fries. bregge, D. brug, OHG. bruccu, G. brücke, Icel. bryggja
pier, bridge, Sw. brygga, Dan. brygge, and prob. Icel. br bridge, Sw.
& Dan. bro bridge, pavement, and possibly to E. brow.]

1. A structure, usually of wood, stone, brick, or iron, erected over
a river or other water course, or over a chasm, railroad, etc., to
make a passageway from one bank to the other.

2. Anything supported at the ends, which serves to keep some other
thing from resting upon the object spanned, as in engraving,
watchmaking, etc., or which forms a platform or staging over which
something passes or is conveyed.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: The small arch or bar at right angles to the strings of a
violin, guitar, etc., serving of raise them and transmit their
vibrations to the body of the instrument.

4. (Elec.)

Defn: A device to measure the resistance of a wire or other conductor
forming part of an electric circuit.

5. A low wall or vertical partition in the fire chamber of a furnace,
for deflecting flame, etc.; -- usually called a bridge wall. Aqueduct
bridge. See Aqueduct.
 -- Asses' bridge, Bascule bridge, Bateau bridge. See under Ass,
Bascule, Bateau.
 -- Bridge of a steamer (Naut.), a narrow platform across the deck,
above the rail, for the convenience of the officer in charge of the
ship; in paddlewheel vessels it connects the paddle boxes.
 -- Bridge of the nose, the upper, bony part of the nose.
 -- Cantalever bridge. See under Cantalever.
 -- Draw bridge. See Drawbridge.
 -- Flying bridge, a temporary bridge suspended or floating, as for
the passage of armies; also, a floating structure connected by a
cable with an anchor or pier up stream, and made to pass from bank to
bank by the action of the current or other means.
 -- Girder bridge or Truss bridge, a bridge formed by girders, or by
trusses resting upon abutments or piers.
 -- Lattice bridge, a bridge formed by lattice girders.
 -- Pontoon bridge, Ponton bridge. See under Pontoon.
 -- Skew bridge, a bridge built obliquely from bank to bank, as
sometimes required in railway engineering.
 -- Suspension bridge. See under Suspension.
 -- Trestle bridge, a bridge formed of a series of short, simple
girders resting on trestles.
 -- Tubular bridge, a bridge in the form of a hollow trunk or
rectangular tube, with cellular walls made of iron plates riveted
together, as the Britannia bridge over the Menai Strait, and the
Victoria bridge at Montreal.
 -- Wheatstone's bridge (Elec.), a device for the measurement of
resistances, so called because the balance between the resistances to
be measured is indicated by the absence of a current in a certain
wire forming a bridge or connection between two points of the
apparatus; -- invented by Sir Charles Wheatstone.

BRIDGE
Bridge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bridged (; p. pr. & vb. n. Bridging.]

1. To build a bridge or bridges on or over; as, to bridge a river.
Their simple engineering bridged with felled trees the streams which
could not be forded. Palfrey.

2. To open or make a passage, as by a bridge.
Xerxes . . . over Hellespont Bridging his way, Europe with Asia
joined. Milton.

3. To find a way of getting over, as a difficulty; -- generally with
over.

BRIDGEBOARD
Bridge"board`, n.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A notched board to which the treads and risers of the steps of
wooden stairs are fastened.

2. A board or plank used as a bridge.

BRIDGEHEAD
Bridge"head`, n.

Defn: A fortification commanding the extremity of a bridge nearest
the enemy, to insure the preservation and usefulness of the bridge,
and prevent the enemy from crossing; a tête-de-pont.

BRIDGEING; BRIDGING
Bridge"ing, Bridg"ing, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The system of bracing used between floor or other timbers to
distribute the weight. Bridging joist. Same as Binding joist.

BRIDGELESS
Bridge"less, a.

Defn: Having no bridge; not bridged.

BRIDGEPOT
Bridge"pot`, n. (Mining)

Defn: The adjustable socket, or step, of a millstone spindle. Knight.

BRIDGETREE
Bridge"tree`, n. Etym: [Bridge + tree a beam.] (Mining)

Defn: The beam which supports the spindle socket of the runner in a
grinding mill. Knight.