

BRUTALITY
Bru*tal"i*ty, n.; pl. Brutalities. Etym: [Cf. F. brutalité.]

1. The quality of being brutal; inhumanity; savageness; pitilessness.

2. An inhuman act.
The . . . brutalities exercised in war. Brougham.

BRUTALIZATION
Bru`tal*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of making brutal; state of being brutalized.

BRUTALIZE
Bru"tal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Brutalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Brutalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. brutaliser.]

Defn: To make brutal; beasty; unfeeling; or inhuman.

BRUTALIZE
Bru"tal*ize, v. i.

Defn: To become brutal, inhuman, barbarous, or coarse and beasty.
[R.]
He mixed . . . with his countrymen, brutalized with them in their
habits and manners. Addison.

BRUTALLY
Bru"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a brutal manner; cruelly.

BRUTE
Brute, a. Etym: [F. brut, nasc., brute, fem., raw, rough, rude,
brutish, L. brutus stupid, irrational: cf. It. & Sp. bruto.]

1. Not having sensation; senseless; inanimate; unconscious; without
intelligence or volition; as, the brute earth; the brute powers of
nature.

2. Not possessing reason, irrational; unthinking; as, a brute beast;
the brute creation.
A creature . . . not prone And brute as other creatures, but endued
With sanctity of reason. Milton.

3. Of, pertaining to, or characteristic of, a brute beast. Hence:
Brutal; cruel; fierce; ferocious; savage; pitiless; as, brute
violence. Macaulay.
The influence of capital and mere brute labor. Playfair.

4. Having the physical powers predominating over the mental; coarse;
unpolished; unintelligent.
A great brute farmer from Liddesdale. Sir W. Scott.

5. Rough; uncivilized; unfeeling. [R.]

BRUTE
Brute, n.

1. An animal destitute of human reason; any animal not human; esp. a
quadruped; a beast.
Brutes may be considered as either aëral, terrestrial, aquatic, or
amphibious. Locke.

2. A brutal person; a savage in heart or manners; as unfeeling or
coarse person.
An ill-natured brute of a husband. Franklin.

Syn.
 -- See Beast.

BRUTE
Brute, v. t. Etym: [For bruit.]

Defn: To report; to bruit. [Obs.]

BRUTELY
Brute"ly, adv.

Defn: In a rude or violent manner.

BRUTENESS
Brute"ness, n.

1. Brutality. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. Insensibility. "The bruteness of nature." Emerson.

BRUTIFY
Bru"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Brutified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Brutifying.] Etym: [Brute + -fy: cf. F. brutifier.]

Defn: To make like a brute; to make senseless, stupid, or unfeeling;
to brutalize.
Any man not quite brutified and void of sense. Barrow.

BRUTING
Bru"ting, n.

Defn: Browsing. [Obs.] Evelyn.

BRUTISH
Bru"tish, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a brute or brutes; of a cruel,
gross, and stupid nature; coarse; unfeeling; unintelligent.
O, let all provocation Take every brutish shape it can devise. Leigh
Hunt.
Man may . . . render himself brutish, but it is in vain that he would
seek to take the rank and density of the brute. I. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- Insensible; stupid; unfeeling; savage; cruel; brutal; barbarous;
inhuman; ferocious; gross; carnal; sensual; bestial.
 -- Bru"tish*ly, adv.
 -- Bru"tish*ness, n.

BRUTISM
Bru"tism, n.

Defn: The nature or characteristic qualities or actions of a brute;
extreme stupidity, or beastly vulgarity.

BRYOLOGICAL
Bry*o*log"i*cal, a.

Defn: Relating to bryology; as, bryological studies.

BRYOLOGIST
Bry*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in bryology.

BRYOLOGY
Bry*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of botany which relates to mosses.

BRYONIN
Bry"o*nin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter principle obtained from the root of the bryony
(Bryonia alba and B. dioica). It is a white, or slightly colored,
substance, and is emetic and cathartic.

BRYONY
Bry"o*ny, n. Etym: [L. bryonia, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The common name of several cucurbitaceous plants of the genus
Bryonia. The root of B. alba (rough or white bryony) and of B. dioica
is a strong, irritating cathartic. Black bryony, a plant (Tamus
communis) so named from its dark glossy leaves and black root; black
bindweed.

BRYOPHYTA
Bry*oph"y*ta, n. pl.

Defn: See Cryptogamia.

BRYOZOA
Bry`o*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of Molluscoidea, including minute animals which by
budding form compound colonies; -- called also Polyzoa.

Note: They are often coralike in form and appearance, each small cell
containing an individual zooid. Other species grow in delicate,
flexible, branched forms, resembling moss, whence the name. Some are
found in fresh water, but most are marine. The three principal
divisions are Ectoprocta, Entoprocta, and Pterobranchia. See
Cyclostoma, Chilostoma, and Phylactolema.

BRYOZOAN
Bry`o*zo"an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Bryozoa.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Bryozoa.

BRYOZOUM
Bry`o*zo"um, n. Etym: [NL. See Bryozoa.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An individual zooid of a bryozoan coralline, of which there may
be two or more kinds in a single colony. The zooecia usually have a
wreath of tentacles around the mouth, and a well developed stomach
and intestinal canal; but these parts are lacking in the other zooids
(Avicularia, Ooecia, etc.).

BUANSUAH
Bu`an*su"ah, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wild dog of northern India (Cuon primævus), supposed by
some to be an ancestral species of the domestic dog.

BUAT
Bu"at, n. Etym: [Scot., of uncertain origin.]

Defn: A lantern; also, the moon. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

BUB
Bub, n.

Defn: Strong malt liquor. [Cant] Prior.

BUB
Bub, n. Etym: [Cf. 2d Bubby.]

Defn: A young brother; a little boy; -- a familiar term of address of
a small boy.

BUB
Bub, v. t. Etym: [Abbrev. from Bubble.]

Defn: To throw out in bubbles; to bubble. [Obs.] Sackville.

BUBALE
Bu"ba*le, n. Etym: [Cf. F. bubale. See Buffalo, n.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large antelope (Alcelaphus bubalis) of Egypt and the Desert
of Sahara, supposed by some to be the fallow deer of the Bible.

BUBALINE
Bu"ba*line, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling a buffalo. Bubaline antelope (Zoöl.), the bubale.

BUBBLE
Bub"ble, n. Etym: [Cf. D. bobbel, Dan. boble, Sw. bubbla. Cf. Blob,
n.]

1. A thin film of liquid inflated with air or gas; as, a soap bubble;
bubbles on the surface of a river.
Beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow, Like bubbles in a late
disturbed stream. Shak.

2. A small quantity of air or gas within a liquid body; as, bubbles
rising in champagne or aërated waters.

3. A globule of air, or globular vacuum, in a transparent solid; as,
bubbles in window glass, or in a lens.

4. A small, hollow, floating bead or globe, formerly used for testing
the strength of spirits.

5. The globule of air in the spirit tube of a level.

6. Anything that wants firmness or solidity; that which is more
specious than real; a false show; a cheat or fraud; a delusive
scheme; an empty project; a dishonest speculation; as, the South Sea
bubble.
Then a soldier . . . Seeking the bubble reputation Even in the
cannon's mouth. Shak.

7. A person deceived by an empty project; a gull. [Obs.] "Ganny's a
cheat, and I'm a bubble." Prior.

BUBBLE
Bub"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bubbled (; p. pr. & vb. n. Bubbling (.]
Etym: [Cf. D. bobbelen, Dan. boble. See Bubble, n.]

1. To rise in bubbles, as liquids when boiling or agitated; to
contain bubbles.
The milk that bubbled in the pail. Tennyson.

2. To run with a gurdling noise, as if forming bubbles; as, a
bubbling stream. Pope.

3. To sing with a gurgling or warbling sound.
At mine ear Bubbled the nightingale and heeded not. Tennyson.

BUBBLER
Bub"bler, v. t.

Defn: To cheat; to deceive.
She has bubbled him out of his youth. Addison.
The great Locke, who was seldom outwitted by false sounds, was
nevertheless bubbled here. Sterne.

BUBBLER
Bub"bler, n.

1. One who cheats.
All the Jews, jobbers, bubblers, subscribers, projectors, etc. Pope.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the Ohio river; -- so called from the noise it makes.

BUBBLE SHELL
Bub"ble shell`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine univalve shell of the genus Bulla and allied genera,
belonging to the Tectibranchiata.

BUBBLING JOCK
Bub"bling Jock` (Zoöl.)

Defn: The male wild turkey, the gobbler; -- so called in allusion to
its notes.

BUBBLY
Bub"bly, a.

Defn: Abounding in bubbles; bubbling. Nash.

BUBBY
Bub"by (bûb"by), n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. G. bübbi, or It. poppa, Pr.
popa, OF. poupe, a woman's breast.]

Defn: A woman's breast. [Low]

BUBBY
Bub"by, n. Etym: [A corruption of brother.]

Defn: Bub; -- a term of familiar or affectionate address to a small
boy.

BUBO
Bu"bo, n.; pl. Buboes (. Etym: [LL. bubo the groin, a swelling in the
groin, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An inflammation, with enlargement, of a limphatic gland, esp.
in the groin, as in syphilis.

BUBONIC
Bu*bon"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a bubo or buboes; characterized by buboes.

BUBONOCELE
Bu*bon"o*cele, n. Etym: [Gr. bubonocèle.] (Med.)

Defn: An inguinal hernia; esp. that incomplete variety in which the
hernial pouch descends only as far as the groin, forming a swelling
there like a bubo.

BUBUKLE
Bu"bu*kle, n.

Defn: A red pimple. [R.] Shak.

BUCCAL
Buc"cal, a. Etym: [L. bucca cheek: cf. F. buccal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mouth or cheeks.

BUCCAN
Buc"can, n. [F. boucan. See Buccaneer.]

1.

Defn: A wooden frame or grid for roasting, smoking, or drying meat
over fire.

2.  A place where meat is smoked.

3.  Buccaned meat.

BUCCAN
Buc"can, v. t. [F. boucaner. See Buccaneer.]

Defn: To expose (meat) in strips to fire and smoke upon a buccan.

BUCCANEER
Buc`ca*neer", n. Etym: [F. boucanier, fr. boucaner to smoke or broil
meat and fish, to hunt wild beasts for their skins, boucan a smoking
place for meat or fish, gridiron for smoking: a word of American
origin.]

Defn: A robber upon the sea; a pirate; -- a term applied especially
to the piratical adventurers who made depredations on the Spaniards
in America in the 17th and 18th centuries. [Written also bucanier.]

Note: Primarily, one who dries and smokes flesh or fish after the
manner of the Indians. The name was first given to the French
settlers in Hayti or Hispaniola, whose business was to hunt wild
cattle and swine.

BUCCANEER
Buc`ca*neer", v. i.

Defn: To act the part of a buccaneer; to live as a piratical
adventurer or sea robber.

BUCCANEERISH
Buc`ca*neer"ish, a.

Defn: Like a buccaneer; piratical.

BUCCINAL
Buc"ci*nal, a. Etym: [L. bucina a crooked horn or trumpet.]

Defn: Shaped or sounding like a trumpet; trumpetlike.

BUCCINATOR
Buc`ci*na"tor, n. Etym: [L., a trumpeter, fr. bucinare to sound the
trumpet.] (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle of the cheek; -- so called from its use in blowing
wind instruments.

BUCCINOID
Buc"ci*noid, a. Etym: [Buccinum + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling the genus Buccinum, or pertaining to the Buccinidæ,
a family of marine univalve shells. See Whelk, and Prosobranchiata.

BUCCINUM
Buc"ci*num, n. Etym: [L., a trumpet, a trumpet shell.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of large univalve mollusks abundant in the arctic seas.
It includes the common whelk (B. undatum).

BUCENTAUR
Bu*cen"taur, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A fabulous monster, half ox, half man.

2. Etym: [It. bucentoro.]

Defn: The state barge of Venice, used by the doge in the ceremony of
espousing the Adriatic.

BUCEPHALUS
Bu*ceph"a*lus, n. [L., fr. Gr. , lit., ox-headed;  ox +  head.]

1.

Defn: The celebrated war horse of Alexander the Great.

2.  Hence, any riding horse. [Jocose] Sir W. Scott.

BUCEROS
Bu"ce*ros, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of large perching birds; the hornbills.

BUCHOLZITE
Buch"ol*zite, n. Etym: [So called from Bucholz, a German chemist.]
(Min.)

Defn: Same as Fibrolite.

BUCHU
Bu"chu, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A South African shrub (Barosma) with small leaves that are
dotted with oil dlands; also, the leaves themselves, which are used
in medicine for diseases of the urinary organs, etc. Several species
furnish the leaves.

BUCK
Buck, n. Etym: [Akin to LG. büke, Dan. byg, Sw. byk, G. bauche: cf.
It. bucato, Prov. Sp. bugada, F. buée.]

1. Lye or suds in which cloth is soaked in the operation of
bleaching, or in which clothes are washed.

2. The cloth or clothes soaked or washed. [Obs.] Shak.

BUCK
Buck, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bucked; p. pr. & vb. n. Bucking.] Etym:
[OE. bouken; akin to LG. büken, Dan. byge, Sw. byka, G. bauchen,
beuchen; cf. OF. buer. Cf. the preceding noun.]

1. To soak, steep, or boil, in lye or suds; -- a process in
bleaching.

2. To wash (clothes) in lye or suds, or, in later usage, by beating
them on stones in running water.

3. (Mining)

Defn: To break up or pulverize, as ores.

BUCK
Buck, n. Etym: [OE. buk, bucke, AS. bucca, bua, he-goat; akin to D.
bok, OHG. pocch, G. bock, Ir. boc, W. bwch, Corn. byk; cf. Zend b,
Skr. bukka. *256. Cf. Butcher, n.]

1. The male of deer, especially fallow deer and antelopes, or of
goats, sheep, hares, and rabbits.

Note: A male fallow deer is called a fawn in his first year; a
pricket in his second; a sorel in his third; a sore in his fourth; a
buck of the first head in his fifth; and a great buck in his sixth.
The female of the fallow deer is termed a doe. The male of the red
deer is termed a stag or hart and not a buck, and the female is
called a hind. Brande & C.

2. A gay, dashing young fellow; a fop; a dandy.
The leading bucks of the day. Thackeray.

3. A male Indian or negro. [Colloq. U.S.]

Note: The word buck is much used in composition for the names of
antelopes; as, bush buck, spring buck. Blue buck. See under Blue.
 -- Water buck, a South African variety of antelope (Kobus
ellipsiprymnus). See Illust. of Antelope.

BUCK
Buck, v. i.

1. To copulate, as bucks and does.

2. To spring with quick plunging leaps, descending with the fore legs
rigid and the head held as low down as possible; -- said of a vicious
horse or mule.

BUCK
Buck, v. t.

1. (Mil.)

Defn: To subject to a mode of punishment which consists in tying the
wrists together, passing the arms over the bent knees, and putting a
stick across the arms and in the angle formed by the knees.

2. To throw by bucking. See Buck, v. i., 2.
The brute that he was riding had nearly bucked him out of the saddle.
W. E. Norris.

BUCK
Buck, n.

Defn: A frame on which firewood is sawed; a sawhorse; a sawbuck. Buck
saw, a saw set in a frame and used for sawing wood on a sawhorse.

BUCK
Buck, n. Etym: [See Beech, n.]

Defn: The beech tree. [Scot.] Buck mast, the mast or fruit of the
beech tree. Johnson.

BUCK-BASKET
Buck"-bas`ket, n. Etym: [See 1st Buck.]

Defn: A basket in which clothes are carried to the wash. Shak.

BUCK BEAN
Buck" bean`. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Menyanthes trifoliata) which grows in moist and boggy
places, having racems of white or reddish flowers and intensely
bitter leaves, sometimes used in medicine; marsh trefoil; -- called
also bog bean.

BUCKBOARD
Buck"board`, n.

Defn: A four-wheeled vehicle, having a long elastic board or frame
resting on the bolsters or axletrees, and a seat or seats placed
transversely upon it; -- called also buck wagon.

BUCKER
Buck"er, n. (Mining)

1. One who bucks ore.

2. A broad-headed hammer used in bucking ore.

BUCKER
Buck"er, n.

Defn: A horse or mule that bucks.

BUCKET
Buck"et, n. Etym: [OE. boket; cf. AS. buc pitcher, or Corn. buket
tub.]

1. A vessel for drawing up water from a well, or for catching,
holding, or carrying water, sap, or other liquids.
The old oaken bucket, the iron-bound bucket, The moss-covered bucket,
which hung in the well. Wordsworth.

2. A vessel (as a tub or scoop) for hoisting and conveying coal, ore,
grain, etc.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: One of the receptacles on the rim of a water wheel into which
the water rushes, causing the wheel to revolve; also, a float of a
paddle wheel.

4. The valved piston of a lifting pump. Fire bucket, a bucket for
carrying water to put out fires.
 -- To kick the bucket, to die. [Low]

BUCKET SHOP
Buck"et shop`.

Defn: An office or a place where facilities are given for betting
small sums on current prices of stocks, petroleum, etc. [Slang, U.S.]

BUCKETY
Buck"et*y, n. Etym: [A corruption of buckwheat.]

Defn: Paste used by weavers to dress their webs. Buchanan.

BUCKEYE
Buck"eye`, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several American trees and shrubs of the same
genus (Æsculus) as the horse chestnut. The Ohio buckeye, or Fetid
buckeye, is Æsculus glabra.
 -- Red buckeye is Æ. Pavia.
 -- Small buckeye is Æ. paviflora.
 -- Sweet buckeye, or Yellow buckeye, is Æ. flava.

2. A cant name for a native in Ohio. [U.S.] Buckeye State, Ohio; --
so called because buckeye trees abound there.

BUCK-EYED
Buck"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having bad or speckled eyes. "A buck-eyed horse." James White.

BUCK FEVER
Buck fever.

Defn: Intense excitement at the sight of deer or other game, such as
often unnerves a novice in hunting. [Colloq.]

BUCKHOUND
Buck"hound`, n.

Defn: A hound for hunting deer. Master of the buckhounds, an officer
in the royal household. [Eng.]

BUCKIE
Buck"ie, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large spiral marine shell, esp. the common whelk. See
Buccinum. [Scot.] Deil's buckie, a perverse, refractory youngster.
[Slang]

BUCKING
Buck"ing, n.

1. The act or process of soaking or boiling cloth in an alkaline
liquid in the operation of bleaching; also, the liquid used.
Tomlinson.

2. A washing.

3. The process of breaking up or pulverizing ores. Bucking iron
(Mining), a broad-faced hammer, used in bucking or breaking up ores.
 -- Bucking kier (Manuf.), a large circular boiler, or kier, used in
bleaching.
 -- Bucking stool, a washing block.

BUCKISH
Buck"ish, a.

Defn: Dandified; foppish.

BUCKLE
Buc"kle, n. Etym: [OE. bocle buckle, boss of a shield, OF. bocle, F.
boucle, boss of a shield, ring, fr. L. buccula a little cheek or
mouth, dim. of bucca cheek; this boss or knob resembling a cheek.]

1. A device, usually of metal, consisting of a frame with one more
movable tongues or catches, used for fastening things together, as
parts of dress or harness, by means of a strap passing through the
frame and pierced by the tongue.

2. A distortion bulge, bend, or kink, as in a saw blade or a plate of
sheet metal. Knight.

3. A curl of hair, esp. a kind of crisp curl formerly worn; also, the
state of being curled.
Earlocks in tight buckles on each side of a lantern face. W. Irving.
Lets his wig lie in buckle for a whole half year. Addison.

4. A contorted expression, as of the face. [R.]
'Gainst nature armed by gravity, His features too in buckle see.
Churchill.

BUCKLE
Buc"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Buckled; p. pr. & vb. n. Buckling.]
Etym: [OE. boclen, F. boucler. See Buckle, n.]

1. To fasten or confine with a buckle or buckles; as, to buckle a
harness.

2. To bend; to cause to kink, or to become distorted.

3. To prepare for action; to apply with vigor and earnestness; --
generally used reflexively.
Cartwright buckled himself to the employment. Fuller.

4. To join in marriage. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

BUCKLE
Buc"kle, v. i.

1. To bend permanently; to become distorted; to bow; to curl; to
kink.
Buckled with the heat of the fire like parchment. Pepys.

2. To bend out of a true vertical plane, as a wall.

3. To yield; to give way; to cease opposing. [Obs.]
The Dutch, as high as they seem, do begin to buckle. Pepys.

4. To enter upon some labor or contest; to join in close fight; to
struggle; to contend.
The bishop was as able and ready to buckle with the Lord Protector as
he was with him. Latimer.
In single combat thou shalt buckle with me. Shak.
To buckle to, to bend to; to engage with zeal.
To make our sturdy humor buckle thereto. Barrow.
Before buckling to my winter's work. J. D. Forbes.

BUCKLER
Buc"kler, n. Etym: [OE. bocler, OF. bocler, F. bouclier, a shield
with a boss, from OF. bocle, boucle, boss. See Buckle, n.]

1. A kind of shield, of various shapes and sizes, worn on one of the
arms (usually the left) for protecting the front of the body.

Note: In the sword and buckler play of the Middle Ages in England,
the buckler was a small shield, used, not to cover the body, but to
stop or parry blows.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of the large, bony, external plates found on many ganoid
fishes.
(b) The anterior segment of the shell of trilobites.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A block of wood or plate of iron made to fit a hawse hole, or
the circular opening in a half-port, to prevent water from entering
when the vessel pitches. Blind buckler (Naut.), a solid buckler.
 -- Buckler mustard (Bot.), a genus of plants (Biscutella) with small
bright yellow flowers. The seed vessel on bursting resembles two
bucklers or shields.
 -- Buckler thorn, a plant with seed vessels shaped like a buckler.
See Christ's thorn.
 -- Riding buckler (Naut.), a buckler with a hole for the passage of
a cable.

BUCKLER
Buc"kler, v. t.

Defn: To shield; to defend. [Obs.]
Can Oxford, that did ever fence the right, Now buckler falsehood with
a pedigree Shak.

BUCKLER-HEADED
Buc"kler-head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a head like a buckler.

BUCKLING
Buc"kling, a.

Defn: Wavy; curling, as hair. Latham.

BUCKRA
Buck"ra, n. Etym: [In the language of the Calabar coast, buckra means
"demon, a powerful and superior being." J.L.Wilson.]

Defn: A white man; -- a term used by negroes of the African coast,
West Indies, etc.

BUCKRA
Buck"ra, a.

Defn: White; white man's; strong; good; as, buckra yam, a white yam.

BUCKRAM
Buck"ram, n. Etym: [OE. bokeram, bougeren, OF. boqueran, F. bougran,
MHG. buckeram, LL. buchiranus, boquerannus, fr. MHG. boc, G. bock,
goat (as being made of goat's hair), or fr. F. bouracan, by
transposing the letter r. See Buck, Barracan.]

1. A coarse cloth of linen or hemp, stiffened with size or glue, used
in garments to keep them in the form intended, and for wrappers to
cover merchandise.

Note: Buckram was formerly a very different material from that now
known by the name. It was used for wearing apparel, etc. Beck
(Draper's Dict. ).

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant. See Ramson. Dr. Prior.

BUCKRAM
Buck"ram, a.

1. Made of buckram; as, a buckram suit.

2. Stiff; precise. "Buckram dames." Brooke.

BUCKRAM
Buck"ram, v. t.

Defn: To strengthen with buckram; to make stiff. Cowper.

BUCK'S-HORN
Buck's"-horn`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with leaves branched somewhat like a buck's horn
(Plantago Coronopus); also, Lobelia coronopifolia.

BUCKSHOT
Buck"shot`, n.

Defn: A coarse leaden shot, larger than swan shot, used in hunting
deer and large game.

BUCKSKIN
Buck"skin`, n.

1. The skin of a buck.

2. A soft strong leather, usually yellowish or grayish in color, made
of deerskin.

3. A person clothed in buckskin, particularly an American soldier of
the Revolutionary war.
Cornwallis fought as lang's he dought, An' did the buckskins claw,
man. Burns.

4. pl.

Defn: Breeches made of buckskin.
I have alluded to his buckskin. Thackeray.

BUCKSTALL
Buck"stall`, n.

Defn: A toil or net to take deer.

BUCKTHORN
Buck"thorn`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus (Rhamnus) of shrubs or trees. The shorter branches of
some species terminate in long spines or thorns. See Rhamnus. Sea
buckthorn, a plant of the genus Hippophaë.

BUCKTOOTH
Buck"tooth`, n.

Defn: Any tooth that juts out.
When he laughed, two white buckteeth protruded. Thackeray.

BUCKWHEAT
Buck"wheat`, n. Etym: [Buck a beech tree + wheat; akin to D.
boekweit, G. buchweizen.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Fagopyrum esculentum) of the Polygonum family, the
seed of which is used for food.

2. The triangular seed used, when ground, for griddle cakes, etc.

BUCOLIC
Bu*col"ic, a. Etym: [L. bucolicus, Gr. kal to drive: cf. F.
bucolique. See Cow the animal.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the life and occupation of a shepherd;
pastoral; rustic.

BUCOLIC
Bu*col"ic, n. Etym: [L. Bucolicôn poëma.]

Defn: A pastoral poem, representing rural affairs, and the life,
manners, and occupation of shepherds; as, the Bucolics of Theocritus
and Virgil. Dryden.

BUCOLICAL
Bu*col"ic*al, a.

Defn: Bucolic.

BUCRANIUM
Bu*cra"ni*um, n.; pl. L. Bucrania. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: A sculptured ornament, representing an ox skull adorned with
wreaths, etc.

BUD
Bud, n. Etym: [OE. budde; cf. D. bot, G. butze, butz, the core of a
fruit, bud, LG. butte in hagebutte, hainbutte, a hip of the dog-rose,
or OF. boton, F. bouton, bud, button, OF. boter to bud, push; all
akin to E. beat. See Button.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A small protuberance on the stem or branches of a plant,
containing the rudiments of future leaves, flowers, or stems; an
undeveloped branch or flower.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A small protuberance on certain low forms of animals and
vegetables which develops into a new organism, either free or
attached. See Hydra. Bud moth (Zoöl.), a lepidopterous insect of
several species, which destroys the buds of fruit trees; esp.
Tmetocera ocellana and Eccopsis malana on the apple tree.

BUD
Bud, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Budded; p. pr. & vb. n. Budding.]

1. To put forth or produce buds, as a plant; to grow, as a bud does,
into a flower or shoot.

2. To begin to grow, or to issue from a stock in the manner of a bud,
as a horn.

3. To be like a bud in respect to youth and freshness, or growth and
promise; as, a budding virgin. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To sprout; germinate; blossom.

BUD
Bud, v. t.

Defn: To graft, as a plant with another or into another, by inserting
a bud from the one into an opening in the bark of the other, in order
to raise, upon the budded stock, fruit different from that which it
would naturally bear.
The apricot and the nectarine may be, and usually are, budded upon
the peach; the plum and the peach are budded on each other. Farm.
Dict.

BUDDHA
Bud"dha, n. Etym: [Skr. buddha wise, sage, fr. budh to know.]

Defn: The title of an incarnation of self-abnegation, virtue, and
wisdom, or a deified religious teacher of the Buddhists, esp. Gautama
Siddartha or Sakya Sinha (or Muni), the founder of Buddhism.

BUDDHISM
Bud"dhism, n.

Defn: The religion based upon the doctrine originally taught by the
Hindoo sage Gautama Siddartha, surnamed Buddha, "the awakened or
enlightened," in the sixth century b.c., and adopted as a religion by
the greater part of the inhabitants of Central and Eastern Asia and
the Indian Islands. Buddha's teaching is believed to have been
atheistic; yet it was characterized by elevated humanity and
morality. It presents release from existence (a beatific
enfranchisement, Nirvâna) as the greatest good. Buddhists believe in
transmigration of souls through all phases and forms of life. Their
number was estimated in 1881 at 470,000,000.

BUDDHIST
Bud"dhist, n.

Defn: One who accepts the teachings of Buddhism.

BUDDHIST
Bud"dhist, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Buddha, Buddhism, or the Buddhists.

BUDDHISTIC
Bud*dhis"tic, a.

Defn: Same as Buddhist, a.

BUDDING
Bud"ding, n.

1. The act or process of producing buds.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A process of asexual reproduction, in which a new organism or
cell is formed by a protrusion of a portion of the animal or
vegetable organism, the bud thus formed sometimes remaining attached
to the parent stalk or cell, at other times becoming free; gemmation.
See Hydroidea.

3. The act or process of ingrafting one kind of plant upon another
stock by inserting a bud under the bark.

BUDDLE
Bud"dle, n. Etym: [Prov. E., to cleanse ore, also a vessel for this
purpose; cf. G. butteln to shake.] (Mining)

Defn: An apparatus, especially an inclined trough or vat, in which
stamped ore is concentrated by subjecting it to the action of rynning
water so as to wash out the lighter and less valuable portions.

BUDDLE
Bud"dle, v. i. (Mining)

Defn: To wash ore in a buddle.

BUDE BURNER
Bude" burn`er. Etym: [See Bude light.]

Defn: A burner consisting of two or more concentric Argand burners
(the inner rising above the outer) and a central tube by which oxygen
gas or common air is supplied.

BUDE LIGHT
Bude" light`. Etym: [From Bude, in Cornwall, the residence of Sir
G.Gurney, the inventor.]

Defn: A light in which high illuminating power is obtained by
introducing a jet of oxygen gas or of common air into the center of a
flame fed with coal gas or with oil.

BUDGE
Budge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Budged; p. pr. & vb. n. Budging.] Etym:
[F. bouger to stir, move (akin to Pr. bojar, bolegar, to stir, move,
It. bulicare to boil, bubble), fr. L. bullire. See Boil, v. i.]

Defn: To move off; to stir; to walk away.
I'll not budge an inch, boy. Shak.
The mouse ne'er shunned the cat as they did budge From rascals worse
than they. Shak.

BUDGE
Budge, a. Etym: [See Budge, v.]

Defn: Brisk; stirring; jocund. [Obs.] South.

BUDGE
Budge, n. Etym: [OE. bouge bag, OF. boge, bouge, fr. L. bulga a
leathern bag or knapsack; a Gallic word; cf. OIr. bolc, Gael. bolg.
Cf. Budge, n.]

Defn: A kind of fur prepared from lambskin dressed with the wool on;
-- used formerly as an edging and ornament, esp. of scholastic
habits.

BUDGE
Budge, a.

1. Lined with budge; hence, scholastic. "Budge gowns." Milton.

2. Austere or stiff, like scholastics.
Those budge doctors of the stoic fur. Milton.
Budge bachelor, one of a company of men clothed in long gowns lined
with budge, who formerly accompanied the lord mayor of London in his
inaugural procession.
 -- Budge barrel (Mil.), a small copper-hooped barrel with only one
head, the other end being closed by a piece of leather, which is
drawn together with strings like a purse. It is used for carrying
powder from the magazine to the battery, in siege or seacoast
service.

BUDGENESS
Budge"ness, n.

Defn: Sternness; severity. [Obs.]
A Sara for goodness, a great Bellona for budgeness. Stanyhurst.

BUDGER
Budg"er, n.

Defn: One who budges. Shak.

BUDGEROW
budg"e*row, n. Etym: [Hindi bajra.]

Defn: A large and commodious, but generally cumbrous and sluggish
boat, used for journeys on the Ganges.

BUDGET
Budg"et, n. Etym: [OE. bogett, bouget, F. bougette bag, wallet, dim.
of OF. boge, bouge, leather bag. See Budge, n., and cf. Bouget.]

1. A bag or sack with its contents; hence, a stock or store; an
accumulation; as, a budget of inventions.

2. The annual financial statement which the British chancellor of the
exchequer makes in the House of Commons. It comprehends a general
view of the finances of the country, with the proposed plan of
taxation for the ensuing year. The term is sometimes applied to a
similar statement in other countries. To open the budget, to lay
before a legislative body the financial estimates and plans of the
executive government.

BUDGY
Budg"y, a. Etym: [From Budge, n.]

Defn: Consisting of fur. [Obs.]

BUDLET
Bud"let, n. Etym: [Bud + -let.]

Defn: A little bud springing from a parent bud.
We have a criterion to distinguish one bud from another, or the
parent bud from the numerous budlets which are its offspring. E.
Darwin.

BUFF
Buff, n. Etym: [OE. buff, buffe, buff, buffalo, F. buffle buffalo.
See Buffalo.]

1. A sort of leather, prepared from the skin of the buffalo, dressed
with oil, like chamois; also, the skins of oxen, elks, and other
animals, dressed in like manner. "A suit of buff." Shak.

2. The color to buff; a light yellow, shading toward pink, gray, or
brown.
A visage rough, Deformed, unfeatured, and a skin of buff. Dryden.

3. A military coat, made of buff leather. Shak.

4. (Med.)

Defn: The grayish viscid substance constituting the buffy coat. See
Buffy coat, under Buffy, a.

5. (Mech.)

Defn: A wheel covered with buff leather, and used in polishing
cutlery, spoons, etc.

6. The bare skin; as, to strip to the buff. [Colloq.]
To be in buff is equivalent to being naked. Wright.

BUFF
Buff, a.

1. Made of buff leather. Goldsmith.

2. Of the color of buff. Buff coat, a close, military outer garment,
with short sleeves, and laced tightly over the chest, made of buffalo
skin, or other thick and elastic material, worn by soldiers in the
17th century as a defensive covering.
 -- Buff jerkin, originally, a leather waistcoat; afterward, one of
cloth of a buff color. [Obs.] Nares.
 -- Buff stick (Mech.), a strip of wood covered with buff leather,
used in polishing.

BUFF
Buff, v. t.

Defn: To polish with a buff. See Buff, n., 5.

BUFF
Buff, v. t. Etym: [OF. bufer to cuff, buffet. See Buffet a blow.]

Defn: To strike. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

BUFF
Buff, n. Etym: [See Buffet.]

Defn: A buffet; a blow; -- obsolete except in the phrase "Blindman's
buff."
Nathless so sore a buff to him it lent That made him reel. Spenser.

BUFF
Buff, a. Etym: [Of uncertain etymol.]

Defn: Firm; sturdy.
And for the good old cause stood buff, 'Gainst many a bitter kick and
cuff. Hudibras.

BUFFA
Buf"fa, n. fem. (Mus.) Etym: [It. See Buffoon.]

Defn: The comic actress in an opera.
 -- a.

Defn: Comic, farcical. Aria buffa, a droll or comic air.
 -- Opera buffa, a comic opera. See Opera bouffe.

BUFFALO
Buf"fa*lo, n.; pl. Buffaloes (. Etym: [Sp. bufalo (cf. It. bufalo, F.
buffle), fr. L. bubalus, bufalus, a kind of African stag or gazelle;
also, the buffalo or wild ox, fr. Gr. Cow the animal, and cf. Buff
the color, and Bubale.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of the genus Bos or Bubalus (B. bubalus), originally
from India, but now found in most of the warmer countries of the
eastern continent. It is larger and less docile than the common ox,
and is fond of marshy places and rivers.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large and savage species of the same genus (B. Caffer)
found in South Africa; -- called also Cape buffalo.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of wild ox.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bison of North America.

5. A buffalo robe. See Buffalo robe, below.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The buffalo fish. See Buffalo fish, below. Buffalo berry
(Bot.), a shrub of the Upper Missouri (Sherherdia argentea) with acid
edible red berries.
 -- Buffalo bird (Zoöl.), an African bird of the genus Buphaga, of
two species. These birds perch upon buffaloes and cattle, in search
of parasites.
 -- Buffalo bug, the carpet beetle. See under Carpet.
 -- Buffalo chips, dry dung of the buffalo, or bison, used for fuel.
[U.S.] -- Buffalo clover (Bot.), a kind of clover (Trifolium reflexum
and T.soloniferum) found in the ancient grazing grounds of the
American bison.
 -- Buffalo cod (Zoöl.), a large, edible, marine fish (Ophiodon
elongatus) of the northern Pacific coast; -- called also blue cod,
and cultus cod.
 -- Buffalo fish (Zoöl.), one of several large fresh-water fishes of
the family Catostomidæ, of the Mississippi valley. The red-mouthed or
brown (Ictiobus bubalus), the big-mouthed or black (Bubalichthys
urus), and the small-mouthed (B. altus), are among the more important
species used as food.
 -- Buffalo fly, or Buffalo gnat (Zoöl.), a small dipterous insect of
the genus Simulium, allied to the black fly of the North. It is often
extremely abundant in the lower part of the Mississippi valley and
does great injury to domestic animals, often killing large numbers of
cattle and horses. In Europe the Columbatz fly is a species with
similar habits.
 -- Buffalo grass (Bot.), a species of short, sweet grass (Buchloë
dactyloides), from two to four inches high, covering the prairies on
which the buffaloes, or bisons, feed. [U.S.] -- Buffalo nut (Bot.),
the oily and drupelike fruit of an American shrub (Pyrularia
oleifera); also, the shrub itself; oilnut.
 -- Buffalo robe, the skin of the bison of North America, prepared
with the hair on; -- much used as a lap robe in sleighs.

BUFFEL DUCK
Buf"fel duck. Etym: [See Buffalo.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small duck (Charitonetta albeola); the spirit duck, or
butterball. The head of the male is covered with numerous elongated
feathers, and thus appears large. Called also bufflehead.

BUFFER
Buff"er, n. Etym: [Prop a striker. See Buffet a blow.]

1. (Mech.)
(a) An elastic apparatus or fender, for deadening the jar caused by
the collision of bodies; as, a buffer at the end of a railroad car.
(b) A pad or cushion forming the end of a fender, which recieves the
blow; -- sometimes called buffing apparatus.

2. One who polishes with a buff.

3. A wheel for buffing; a buff.

4. A good-humored, slow-witted fellow; -- usually said of an elderly
man. [Colloq.] Dickens.

BUFFERHEAD
Buff"er*head`, n.

Defn: The head of a buffer, which recieves the concussion, in
railroad carriages.

BUFFET
Buf*fet", n. Etym: [F. buffet, LL. bufetum; of uncertain origin;
perh. fr. the same source as E. buffet a blow, the root meaning to
puff, hence (cf. puffed up) the idea of ostentation or display.]

1. A cupboard or set of shelves, either movable or fixed at one side
of a room, for the display of plate, china, etc., a sideboard.
Not when a gilt buffet's reflected pride Turns you from sound
philosophy aside. Pope.

2. A counter for refreshments; a restaurant at a railroad station, or
place of public gathering.

BUFFET
Buf"fet, n. Etym: [OE. buffet, boffet, OF. buffet a slap in the face,
a pair of bellows, fr. buffe blow, cf. F. bouffer to blow, puff;
prob. akin to E. puff. For the meaning slap, blow, cf. F. soufflet a
slap, souffler to blow. See Puff, v. i., and cf. Buffet sidebroad,
Buffoon]

1. A blow with the hand; a slap on the face; a cuff.
When on his cheek a buffet fell. Sir W. Scott.

2. A blow from any source, or that which affects like a blow, as the
violence of winds or waves; a stroke; an adverse action; an
affliction; a trial; adversity.
Those planks of tough and hardy oak that used for yeas to brave the
buffets of the Bay of Biscay. Burke.
Fortune's buffets and rewards. Shak.

3. A small stool; a stool for a buffet or counter.
Go fetch us a light buffet. Townely Myst.

BUFFET
Buf"fet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Buffeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Buffeting.]
Etym: [OE. buffeten, OF. buffeter. See the preceding noun.]

1. To strike with the hand or fist; to box; to beat; to cuff; to
slap.
They spit in his face and buffeted him. Matt. xxvi. 67.

2. To affect as with blows; to strike repeatedly; to strive with or
contend against; as, to buffet the billows.
The sudden hurricane in thunder roars, Buffets the bark, and whirls
it from the shores. Broome.
You are lucky fellows who can live in a dreamland of your own,
instead of being buffeted about the world. W. Black.

3. Etym: [Cf. Buffer.]

Defn: To deaden the sound of (bells) by muffling the clapper.

BUFFET
Buf"fet, v. i.

1. To exercise or play at boxing; to strike; to smite; to strive; to
contend.
If I might buffet for my love, or bound my horse for her favors, I
could lay on like a butcher. Shak.

2. To make one's way by blows or struggling.
Strove to buffet to land in vain. Tennyson.

BUFFETER
Buf"fet*er, n.

Defn: One who buffets; a boxer. Jonson.

BUFFETING
Buf"fet*ing, n.

1. A striking with the hand.

2. A succession of blows; continued violence, as of winds or waves;
afflictions; adversity.
He seems to have been a plant of slow growth, but . . . fitted to
endure the buffeting on the rudest storm. Wirt.

BUFFIN
Buf"fin, n. Etym: [So called from resembling buff

Defn: A sort of coarse stuff; as, buffin gowns. [Obs.]

BUFFING APPARATUS
Buff"ing ap`pa*ra"tus.

Defn: See Buffer, 1.

BUFFLE
Buf"fle, n. Etym: [OE., from F. buffle. See Buffalo.]

Defn: The buffalo. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

BUFFLE
Buf"fle, v. i.

Defn: To puzzle; to be at a loss. [Obs.] Swift.

BUFFLEHEAD
Buf"fle*head`, n. Etym: [Buffle + head.]

1. One who has a large head; a heavy, stupid fellow. [Obs.]
What makes you stare so, bufflehead Plautus (trans. 1694).

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The buffel duck. See Buffel duck.

BUFFLE-HEADED
Buf"fle-head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a large head, like a buffalo; dull; stupid; blundering.
[Obs.]
So fell this buffle-headed giant. Gayton.

BUFFO
Buf"fo, n.masc. Etym: [It. See Buffoon.] (Mus.)

Defn: The comic actor in an opera.

BUFFOON
Buf*foon", n. Etym: [F. bouffon (cf. It. buffone, buffo, buffa, puff
of wind, vanity, nonsense, trick), fr. bouffer to puff out, because
the buffoons puffed out their cheeks for the amusement of the
spectators. See Buffet a blow.]

Defn: A man who makes a practice of amusing others by low tricks,
antic gestures, etc.; a droll; a mimic; a harlequin; a clown; a
merry-andrew.

BUFFOON
Buf*foon", a.

Defn: Characteristic of, or like, a buffoon. "Buffoon stories."
Macaulay.
To divert the audience with buffoon postures and antic dances.
Melmoth.

BUFFOON
Buf*foon", v. i.

Defn: To act the part of a buffoon. [R.]

BUFFOON
Buf*foon", v. t.

Defn: To treat with buffoonery. Glanvill.

BUFFOONERY
Buf*foon"er*y, n.; pl. Buffooneries. Etym: [F. bouffonnerie.]

Defn: The arts and practices of a buffoon, as low jests, ridiculous
pranks, vulgar tricks and postures.
Nor that it will ever constitute a wit to conclude a tart piece of
buffoonery with a "What makes you blush" Spectator.

BUFFOONISH
Buf*foon"ish, a.

Defn: Like a buffoon; consisting in low jests or gestures. Blair.

BUFFOONISM
Buf*foon"ism, n.

Defn: The practices of a buffoon; buffoonery.

BUFFOONLY
Buf*foon"ly, a.

Defn: Low; vulgar. [R.]
Apish tricks and buffoonly discourse. Goodman.

BUFFY
Buff"y, a. (Med.)

Defn: Resembling, or characterized by, buff. Buffy coat, the
coagulated plasma of blood when the red corpuscles have so settled
out that the coagulum appears nearly colorless. This is common in
diseased conditions where the corpuscles run together more rapidly
and in denser masses than usual. Huxley.

BUFO
Bu"fo, n. Etym: [L. bufo a toad.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Amphibia including various species of toads.

BUFONITE
Bu"fon*ite, n. Etym: [L. bufo toad: cf. F. bufonite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An old name for a fossil consisting of the petrified teeth and
palatal bones of fishes belonging to the family of Pycnodonts (thick
teeth), whose remains occur in the oölite and chalk formations;
toadstone; -- so named from a notion that it was originally formed in
the head of a toad.

BUG
Bug, n. Etym: [OE. bugge, fr. W. bwg, bwgan, hobgoblin, scarecrow,
bugbear. Cf. Bogey, Boggle.]

1. A bugbear; anything which terrifies. [Obs.]
Sir, spare your threats: The bug which you would fright me with I
seek. Shak.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A general name applied to various insects belonging to the
Hemiptera; as, the squash bug; the chinch bug, etc.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect of the genus Cimex, especially the bedbug (C.
lectularius). See Bedbug.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of various species of Coleoptera; as, the ladybug; potato
bug, etc.; loosely, any beetle.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of certain kinds of Crustacea; as, the sow bug; pill bug;
bait bug; salve bug, etc.

Note: According to present popular usage in England, and among
housekeepers in America, bug, when not joined with some qualifying
word, is used specifically for bedbug. As a general term it is used
very loosely in America, and was formerly used still more loosely in
England. "God's rare workmanship in the ant, the poorest bug that
creeps." Rogers (Naaman). "This bug with gilded wings." Pope. Bait
bug. See under Bait.
 -- Bug word, swaggering or threatening language. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

BUGABOO; BUGBEAR
Bug`a*boo", Bug"bear`, n. Etym: [See Bug.]

Defn: Something frightful, as a specter; anything imaginary that
causes needless fright; something used to excite needless fear; also,
something really dangerous, used to frighten children, etc. "Bugaboos
to fright ye." Lloyd.
But, to the world no bugbear is so great As want of figure and a
small estate. Pope.
The bugaboo of the liberals is the church pray. S. B. Griffin.
The great bugaboo of the birds is the owl. J. Burroughs.

Syn.
 -- Hobgoblin; goblin; specter; ogre; scarecrow.

BUGBANE
Bug"bane`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial white-flowered herb of the order Ranunculaceæ and
genus Cimiciguga; bugwort. There are several species.

BUGBEAR
Bug"bear`, n.

Defn: Same as Bugaboo.
 -- a.

Defn: Causing needless fright. Locke.

BUGBEAR
Bug"bear`, v. t.

Defn: To alarm with idle phantoms.

BUGFISH
Bug"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The menhaden. [U.S.]

BUGGER
Bug"ger, n. Etym: [F. bougre, fr. LL. Bulgarus, a Bulgarian, and also
a heretic; because the inhabitants of Bulgaria were infected with
heresy. Those guilty of the crime of buggery were called heretics,
because in the eyes of their adversaries there was nothing more
heinous than heresy, and it was therefore thought that the origin of
such a vice could only be owing to heretics.]

1. One guilty of buggery or unnatural vice; a sodomite.

2. A wretch; -- sometimes used humorously or in playful
disparagement. [Low]

BUGGERY
Bug"ger*y, n. Etym: [OF. bougrerie, bogrerie, heresy. See Bugger.]

Defn: Unnatural sexual intercourse; sodomy.

BUGGINESS
Bug"gi*ness, n. Etym: [From Buggy, a.]

Defn: The state of being infested with bugs.

BUGGY
Bug"gy, a. Etym: [From Bug.]

Defn: Infested or abounding with bugs.

BUGGY
Bug"gy, n.; pl. Buggies.

1. A light one horse two-wheeled vehicle. [Eng.]
Villebeck prevailed upon Flora to drive with him to the race in a
buggy. Beaconsfield.

2. A light, four-wheeled vehicle, usually with one seat, and with or
without a calash top. [U.S.] Buggy cultivator, a cultivator with a
seat for the driver.
 -- Buggy plow, a plow, or set of plows, having a seat for the
driver; -- called also sulky plow.

BUGLE
Bu"gle, n. Etym: [OE. bugle buffalo, buffalo's horn, OF. bugle, fr.
L. buculus a young bullock, steer, dim. of bos ox. See Cow the
animal.]

Defn: A sort of wild ox; a buffalo. E. Phillips.

BUGLE
Bu"gle, n. Etym: [See Bugle a wild ox.]

1. A horn used by hunters.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A copper instrument of the horn quality of tone, shorter and
more conical that the trumpet, sometimes keyed; formerly much used in
military bands, very rarely in the orchestra; now superseded by the
cornet; -- called also the Kent bugle.

BUGLE
Bu"gle, n. Etym: [LL. bugulus a woman's ornament: cf. G. bügel a bent
piece of metal or wood, fr. the same root as G. biegen to bend, E.
bow to bend.]

Defn: An elingated glass bead, of various colors, though commonly
black.

BUGLE
Bu"gle, a. Etym: [From Bugle a bead.]

Defn: Jet black. "Bugle eyeballs." Shak.

BUGLE
Bu"gle, n. Etym: [F. bugle; cf. It. bugola, L. bugillo.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Ajuga of the Mint family, a native of the
Old World. Yellow bugle, the Ajuga chamæpitys.

BUGLED
Bu"gled, a.

Defn: Ornamented with bugles.

BUGLE HORN
Bu"gle horn`.

1. A bugle.
One blast upon his bugle horn Were worth a thousand men. Sir W.
Scott.

2. A drinking vessel made of horn. [Obs.]
And drinketh of his bugle horn the wine. Chaucer.

BUGLER
Bu"gler, n.

Defn: One who plays on a bugle.

BUGLEWEED
Bu"gle*weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the Mint family and genus Lycopus; esp. L.
Virginicus, which has mild narcotic and astringent properties, and is
sometimes used as a remedy for hemorrhage.

BUGLOSS
Bu"gloss, n.; pl. Buglosses. Etym: [F. buglosse, L. buglossa,
buglossus, fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Anchusa, and especially the A.
officinalis, sometimes called alkanet; oxtongue. Small wild bugloss,
the Asperugo procumbens and the Lycopsis arvensis.
 -- Viper's bugloss, a species of Echium.

BUGWORT
Bug"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Bugbane.

BUHL; BUHLWORK
Buhl, Buhl"work, n. Etym: [From A.Ch.Boule, a French carver in wood.]

Defn: Decorative woodwork in which tortoise shell, yellow metal,
white metal, etc., are inlaid, forming scrolls, cartouches, etc.
[Written also boule, boulework.]

BUHLBUHL
Buhl"buhl, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Bulbul.

BUHRSTONE
Buhr"stone`, n. Etym: [OE. bur a whetstone for scythes.] (Min.)

Defn: A cellular, flinty rock, used for mill stones. [Written also
burrstone.]

BUILD
Build, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Built; p. pr. & vb. n. Building. The
regular imp. & p. p. Builded is antiquated.] Etym: [OE. bulden,
bilden, AS. byldan to build, fr. bold house; cf. Icel. bol farm,
abode, Dan. bol small farm, OSw. bol, böle, house, dwelling, fr. root
of Icel. b to dwell; akin to E. be, bower, boor. sq. root97.]

1. To erect or construct, as an edifice or fabric of any kind; to
form by uniting materials into a regular structure; to fabricate; to
make; to raise.
Nor aught availed him now To have built in heaven high towers.
Milton.

2. To raise or place on a foundation; to form, establish, or produce
by using appropriate means.
Who builds his hopes in air of your good looks. Shak.

3. To increase and strengthen; to increase the power and stability
of; to settle, or establish, and preserve; -- frequently with up; as,
to build up one's constitution.
I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to
build you up. Acts xx. 32.

Syn.
 -- To erect; construct; raise; found; frame.

BUILD
Build, v. i.

1. To exercise the art, or practice the business, of building.

2. To rest or depend, as on a foundation; to ground one's self or
one's hopes or opinions upon something deemed reliable; to rely; as,
to build on the opinions or advice of others.

BUILD
Build, n.

Defn: Form or mode of construction; general figure; make; as, the
build of a ship.

BUILDER
Build"er, n.

Defn: One who builds; one whose occupation is to build, as a
carpenter, a shipwright, or a mason.
In the practice of civil architecture, the builder comes between the
architect who designs the work and the artisans who execute it. Eng.
Cyc.

BUILDING
Build"ing, n.

1. The act of constructing, erecting, or establishing.
Hence it is that the building of our Sion rises no faster. Bp. Hall.

2. The art of constructing edifices, or the practice of civil
architecture.
The execution of works of architecture necessarily includes building;
but building is frequently employed when the result is not
architectural. Hosking.

3. That which is built; a fabric or edifice constructed, as a house,
a church, etc.
Thy sumptuous buildings and thy wife's attire Have cost a mass of
public treasury. Shak.

BUILT
Built, n.

Defn: Shape; build; form of structure; as, the built of a ship.
[Obs.] Dryden.

BUILT
Built, a.

Defn: Formed; shaped; constructed; made; -- often used in composition
and preceded by the word denoting the form; as, frigate-built,
clipper-built, etc.
Like the generality of Genoese countrywomen, strongly built. Landor.

BUKE MUSLIN
Buke" mus"lin.

Defn: See Book muslin.

BUKSHISH
Buk"shish, n.

Defn: See Backsheesh.

BULAU
Bu"lau, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An East Indian insectivorous mammal (Gymnura Rafflesii),
somewhat like a rat in appearance, but allied to the hedgehog.

BULB
Bulb, n. Etym: [L. bulbus, Gr. bulbe.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A spheroidal body growing from a plant either above or below
the ground (usually below), which is strictly a bud, consisting of a
cluster of partially developed leaves, and producing, as it grows, a
stem above, and roots below, as in the onion, tulip, etc. It differs
from a corm in not being solid.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A name given to some parts that resemble in shape certain
bulbous roots; as, the bulb of the aorta. Bulb of the eye, the
eyeball.
 -- Bulb of a hair, the "root," or part whence the hair originates.
 -- Bulb of the spinal cord, the medulla oblongata, often called
simply bulb.
 -- Bulb of a tooth, the vascular and nervous papilla contained in
the cavity of the tooth.

3. An expansion or protuberance on a stem or tube, as the bulb of a
thermometer, which may be of any form, as spherical, cylindrical,
curved, etc. Tomlinson.

BULB
Bulb, v. i.

Defn: To take the shape of a bulb; to swell.

BULBACEOUS
Bul*ba"ceous, a. Etym: [L. bulbaceus. See Bulb, n.]

Defn: Bulbous. Jonson.

BULBAR
Bulb"ar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to bulb; especially, in medicine, pertaining
to the bulb of the spinal cord, or medulla oblongata; as, bulbar
paralysis.

BULBED
Bulbed, a.

Defn: Having a bulb; round-headed.

BULBEL
Bulb"el, n. Etym: [Dim., fr. bulb, n.] (Bot.)

Defn: A separable bulb formed on some flowering plants.

BULBIFEROUS
Bul*bif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Bulb,n.+ -ferous: cf. F. bulbifère.] (Bot.)

Defn: Producing bulbs.

BULBIL
Bulb"il, n. [Dim. fr. bulb.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A small or secondary bulb; hence, now almost exclusively: An
aërial bulb or deciduous bud, produced in the leaf axils, as in the
tiger lily, or relpacing the flowers, as in some onions, and capable,
when separated, of propagating the plant; -- called also bulblet and
brood bud.

2.  (Anat.) A small hollow bulb, such as an enlargement in a small
vessel or tube.

BULBLET
Bulb"let, n. Etym: [Bulb,n.+ -let.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small bulb, either produced on a larger bulb, or on some
aërial part of a plant, as in the axils of leaves in the tiger lily,
or replacing the flowers in some kinds of onion.

BULBOSE
Bul*bose", a.

Defn: Bulbous.

BULBO-TUBER
Bul"bo-tu`ber, n. Etym: [Bulb,n.+ tuber.] (Bot.)

Defn: A corm.

BULBOUS
Bulb"ous, a. Etym: [L. bulbosus: cf. F. bulbeux. See Bulb, n.]

Defn: Having or containing bulbs, or a bulb; growing from bulbs;
bulblike in shape or structure.

BULBUL
Bul"bul, n. Etym: [Per.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Persian nightingale (Pycnonotus jocosus). The name is also
applied to several other Asiatic singing birds, of the family
Timaliidæ. The green bulbuls belong to the Chloropsis and allied
genera. [Written also buhlbuhl.]

BULBULE
Bul"bule, n. Etym: [L. bulbulus, dim. of bulbus. See Bulb, n.]

Defn: A small bulb; a bulblet.

BULCHIN
Bul"chin, n. Etym: [Dim. of bull.]

Defn: A little bull.

BULGE
Bulge, n. Etym: [OE. bulge a swelling; cf. AS. belgan to swell, OSw.
bulgja, Icel. bolginn swollen, OHG. belgan to swell, G. bulge
leathern sack, Skr. b to be large, strong; the root meaning to swell.
Cf. Bilge, Belly, Billow, Bouge, n.]

1. The bilge or protuberant part of a cask.

2. A swelling, protuberant part; a bending outward, esp. when caused
by pressure; as, a bulge in a wall.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The bilge of a vessel. See Bilge, 2. Bulge ways. (Naut.) See
Bilge ways.

BULGE
Bulge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bulged (; p. pr. & vb.n. Bulging.]

1. To swell or jut out; to bend outward, as a wall when it yields to
pressure; to be protuberant; as, the wall bulges.

2. To bilge, as a ship; to founder.
And scattered navies bulge on distant shores. Broome.

BULGER
Bul"ger, n. [From Bulge.] (Golf)

Defn: A driver or a brassy with a convex face.

BULGY
Bul"gy, a.

Defn: Bulged; bulging; bending, or tending to bend, outward.
[Colloq.]

BULIMIA; BULIMY
Bu*lim"i*a, Bu"li*my, n. Etym: [NL. bulimia, fr. Gr. boulimie.]
(Med.)

Defn: A disease in which there is a perpetual and insatiable appetite
for food; a diseased and voracious appetite.

BULIMUS
Bu*li"mus, n. Etym: [L. bulimus hunger. See Bulimy.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of land snails having an elongated spiral shell, often
of large size. The species are numerous ingabundant in tropical
America.

BULK
Bulk, n. Etym: [OE. bulke, bolke, heap; cf. Dan. bulk lump, clod,
OSw. bolk crowd, mass, Icel. b to be bulky. Cf. Boll, n., Bile a
boil, Bulge, n.]

1. Magnitude of material substance; dimensions; mass; size; as, an ox
or ship of great bulk.
Against these forces there were prepared near one hundred ships; not
so great of bulk indeed, but of a more nimble motion, and more
serviceable. Bacon.

2. The main mass or body; the largest or principal portion; the
majority; as, the bulk of a debt.
The bulk of the people must labor, Burke told them, "to obtain what
by labor can be obtained." J. Morley.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The cargo of a vessel when stowed.

4. The body. [Obs.] Shak.
My liver leaped within my bulk. Turbervile.
Barrel bulk. See under Barrel.
 -- To break bulk (Naut.), to begin to unload or more the cargo.
 -- In bulk, in a mass; loose; not inclosed in separate packages or
divided into separate parts; in such shape that any desired quantity
may be taken or sold.
 -- Laden in bulk, Stowed in bulk, having the cargo loose in the hold
or not inclosed in boxes, bales, or casks.
 -- Sale by bulk, a sale of goods as they are, without weight or
measure.

Syn.
 -- Size; magnitude; dimension; volume; bigness; largeness;
massiveness.

BULK
Bulk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bulked; p. pr. & vb. n. Bulking.]

Defn: To appear or seem to be, as to bulk or extent; to swell.
The fame of Warburton possibly bulked larger for the moment. Leslie
Stephen.

BULK
Bulk, n. Etym: [Icel. balkr a beam, partition. Cf. Balk, n. & v.]

Defn: A projecting part of a building. [Obs.]
Here, stand behind this bulk. Shak.

BULKER
Bulk"er, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A person employed to ascertain the bulk or size of goods, in
order to fix the amount of freight or dues payable on them.

BULKHEAD
Bulk"head`, n. Etym: [See Bulk part of a building.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A partition in a vessel, to separate apartments on the same
deck.

2. A structure of wood or stone, to resist the pressure of earth or
water; a partition wall or structure, as in a mine; the limiting wall
along a water front. Bulked line, a line beyond which a wharf must
not project; -- usually, the harbor line.

BULKINESS
Bulk"i*ness, n.

Defn: Greatness in bulk; size.

BULKY
Bulk"y, a.

Defn: Of great bulk or dimensions; of great size; large; thick;
massive; as, bulky volumes.
A bulky digest of the revenue laws. Hawthorne.

BULL
Bull, n. Etym: [OE. bule, bul, bole; akin to D. bul, G. bulle, Icel.
boli, Lith. bullus, Lett. bollis, Russ. vol'; prob. fr. the root of
AS. bellan, E. bellow.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The male of any species of cattle (Bovidæ); hence, the male of
any large quadruped, as the elephant; also, the male of the whale.

Note: The wild bull of the Old Testament is thought to be the oryx, a
large species of antelope.

2. One who, or that which, resembles a bull in character or action.
Ps. xxii. 12.

3. (Astron.)
(a) Taurus, the second of the twelve signs of the zodiac.
(b) A constellation of the zodiac between Aries and Gemini. It
contains the Pleiades.
At last from Aries rolls the bounteous sun, And the bright Bull
receives him. Thomson.

4. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: One who operates in expectation of a rise in the price of
stocks, or in order to effect such a rise. See 4th Bear, n., 5. Bull
baiting, the practice of baiting bulls, or rendering them furious, as
by setting dogs to attack them.
 -- John Bull, a humorous name for the English, collectively; also,
an Englishman. "Good-looking young John Bull." W. D.Howells.
 -- To take the bull by the horns, to grapple with a difficulty
instead of avoiding it.

BULL
Bull, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a bull; resembling a bull; male; large;
fierce. Bull bat (Zoöl.), the night hawk; -- so called from the loud
noise it makes while feeding on the wing, in the evening.
 -- Bull calf. (a) A stupid fellow.
 -- Bull mackerel (Zoöl.), the chub mackerel.
 -- Bull pump (Mining), a direct single-acting pumping engine, in
which the steam cylinder is placed above the pump.
 -- Bull snake (Zoöl.), the pine snake of the United States.
 -- Bull stag, a castrated bull. See Stag.
 -- Bull wheel, a wheel, or drum, on which a rope is wound for
lifting heavy articles, as logs, the tools in well boring, etc.

BULL
Bull, v. i.

Defn: To be in heat; to manifest sexual desire as cows do. [Colloq.]

BULL
Bull, v. t. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: To endeavor to raise the market price of; as, to bull railroad
bonds; to bull stocks; to bull Lake Shore; to endeavor to raise
prices in; as, to bull the market. See 1st Bull, n., 4.

BULL
Bull, n. Etym: [OE. bulle, fr. L. bulla bubble, stud, knob, LL., a
seal or stamp: cf. F. bulle. Cf. Bull a writing, Bowl a ball, Boil,
v. i.]

1. A seal. See Bulla.

2. A letter, edict, or respect, of the pope, written in Gothic
characters on rough parchment, sealed with a bulla, and dated "a die
Incarnationis," i. e., "from the day of the Incarnation." See
Apostolical brief, under Brief.
A fresh bull of Leo's had declared how inflexible the court of Rome
was in the point of abuses. Atterbury.

3. A grotesque blunder in language; an apparent congruity, but real
incongruity, of ideas, contained in a form of expression; so called,
perhaps, from the apparent incongruity between the dictatorial nature
of the pope's bulls and his professions of humility.
And whereas the papist boasts himself to be a Roman Catholic, it is a
mere contradiction, one of the pope's bulls, as if he should say
universal particular; a Catholic schimatic. Milton.
The Golden Bull, an edict or imperial constitution made by the
emperor Charles IV. (1356), containing what became the fundamental
law of the German empire; -- so called from its golden seal.

Syn.
 -- See Blunder.

BULLA
Bul"la, n.; pl. Bullæ (. Etym: [L. bulla bubble. See Bull an edict.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A bleb; a vesicle, or an elevation of the cuticle, containing a
transparent watery fluid.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The ovoid prominence below the opening of the ear in the skulls
of many animals; as, the tympanic or auditory bulla.

3. A leaden seal for a document; esp. the round leaden seal attached
to the papal bulls, which has on one side a representation of St.
Peter and St. Paul, and on the other the name of the pope who uses
it.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine shells. See Bubble shell.

BULLACE
Bul"lace, n. Etym: [OE. bolas, bolace, OF. beloce; of Celtic origin;
cf. Arm. bolos, polos, Gael. bulaistear.] (Bot.)
(a) A small European plum (Prunus communis, var. insitita). See Plum.
(b) The bully tree.

BULLANTIC
Bul*lan"tic, a. Etym: [See Bull an edict.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or used in, papal bulls. Fry. Bullantic letters,
Gothic letters used in papal bulls.

BULLARY
Bul"la*ry, n. Etym: [LL. bullarium: cf. F. bullairie. See Bull an
edict.]

Defn: A collection of papal bulls.

BULLARY
Bul"la*ry, n.; pl. Bullaries. Etym: [Cf. Boilary.]

Defn: A place for boiling or preparating salt; a boilery. Crabb.
And certain salt fats or bullaries. Bills in Chancery.

BULLATE
Bul"late, a. Etym: [L. bullatus, fr. bulla bubble.] (Biol.)

Defn: Appearing as if blistered; inflated; puckered. Bullate leaf
(Bot.), a leaf, the membranous part of which rises between the veins
puckered elevations convex on one side and concave on the other.

BULLBEGGAR
Bull"beg`gar, n.

Defn: Something used or suggested to produce terror, as in children
or persons of weak mind; a bugbear.
And being an ill-looked fellow, he has a pension from the church
wardens for being bullbeggar to all the forward children in the
parish. Mountfort (1691).

BULL BRIER
Bull" bri`er. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Smilax (S. Pseudo-China) growing from New Jersey
to the Gulf of Mexico, which has very large tuberous and farinaceous
rootstocks, formerly used by the Indians for a sort of bread, and by
the negroes as an ingredient in making beer; -- called also bamboo
brier and China brier.

BULLCOMBER
Bull"comb*er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A scaraboid beetle; esp. the Typhæus vulgaris of Europe.

BULLDOG
Bull"dog`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A variety of dog, of remarkable ferocity, courage, and tenacity
of grip; -- so named, probably, from being formerly employed in
baiting bulls.

2. (Metal.)

Defn: A refractory material used as a furnace lining, obtained by
calcining the cinder or slag from the puddling furnace of a rolling
mill.

BULLDOG
Bull"dog`, a.

Defn: Characteristic of, or like, a bulldog; stubborn; as, bulldog
courage; bulldog tenacity. Bulldog bat (zo'94l.), a bat of the genus
Nyctinomus; -- so called from the shape of its face.

BULLDOZE
Bull"doze`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bulldozed; p. pr. & vb.n.
Bulldozing.]

Defn: To intimidate; to restrain or coerce by intimidation or
violence; -- used originally of the intimidation of negro voters, in
Louisiana. [Slang, U.S.]

BULLDOZER
Bull"do`zer, n.

Defn: One who bulldozes. [Slang]

BULLED
Bulled, a. Etym: [Cf. Boln.]

Defn: Swollen. [Obs.]

BULLEN-BULLEN
Bul"len-bul"len, n. Etym: [Native Australian name, from its cry.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The lyre bird.

BULLEN-NAIL
Bul"len-nail`, n. Etym: [Bull large, having a large head + nail.]

Defn: A nail with a round head and short shank, tinned and lacquered.

BULLET
Bul"let, n. Etym: [F. boulet, dim. of boule ball. See Bull an edict,
and cf. Boulet.]

1. A small ball.

2. A missile, usually of lead, and round or elongated in form, to be
discharged from a rifle, musket, pistol, or other small firearm.

3. A cannon ball. [Obs.]
A ship before Greenwich . . . shot off her ordnance, one piece being
charged with a bullet of stone. Stow.

4. The fetlock of a horse.

Note: [See Illust. under Horse.]

BULLETIN
Bul"le*tin, n. Etym: [F. bulletin, fr. It. bullettino, dim. of
bulletta, dim. of bulla, bolla, an edict of the pope, from L. bulla
bubble. See Bull an edict.]

1. A brief statement of facts respecting some passing event, as
military operations or the health of some distinguished personage,
issued by authority for the information of the public.

2. Any public notice or announcement, especially of news recently
received.

3. A periodical publication, especially one containing the proceeding
of a society. Bulletin board, a board on which announcements are put,
particularly at newsrooms, newspaper offices, etc.

BULLET-PROOF
Bul"let-proof`, a.

Defn: Capable of resisting the force of a bullet. Bullet tree. See
Bully tree.
 -- Bullet wood, the wood of the bullet tree.

BULLFACED
Bull"faced`, a.

Defn: Having a large face.

BULLFEAST
Bull"feast`, n.

Defn: See Bullfight. [Obs.]

BULLFIGHT; BULLFIGHTING
Bull"fight`, Bull"fight`ing, n.

Defn: A barbarous sport, of great antiquity, in which men torment,
and fight with, a bull or bulls in an arena, for public amusement, --
still popular in Spain.
 -- Bull"fight`er (, n.

BULLFINCH
Bull"finch`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the genus Pyrrhula and other related genera,
especially the P. vulgaris or rubicilla, a bird of Europe allied to
the grosbeak, having the breast, cheeks, and neck, red.

Note: As a cage bird it is highly valued for its remarkable power of
learning to whistle correctly various musical airs. Crimson-fronted
bullfinch. (Zoöl.) See Burion.
 -- Pine bullfinch, the pine finch.

BULLFIST; BULLFICE
Bull"fist, Bull"fice, n. Etym: [Cf. G. bofist, AS. wulfes fist
puffball, E. fizz, foist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of fungus. See Puffball.

BULL FLY; BULLFLY
Bull" fly` or Bull"fly`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any large fly troublesome to cattle, as the gadflies and breeze
flies.

BULLFROG
Bull"frog`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large species of frog (Rana Catesbiana), found in North
America; -- so named from its loud bellowing in spring.

BULLHEAD
Bull"head`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)
(a) A fresh-water fish of many species, of the genus Uranidea, esp.
U. gobio of Europe, and U. Richardsoni of the United States; --
called also miller's thumb.
(b) In America, several species of Amiurus; -- called also catfish,
horned pout, and bullpout.
(c) A marine fish of the genus Cottus; the sculpin.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) The black-bellied plover (Squatarola helvetica); -- called also
beetlehead.
(b) The golden plover.

3. A stupid fellow; a lubber. [Colloq.] Jonson.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small black water insect. E. Phillips. Bullhead whiting
(Zoöl.), the kingfish of Florida (Menticirrus alburnus).

BULLHEADED
Bull"head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a head like that of a bull. Fig.: Headstrong; obstinate;
dogged.

BULLION
Bul"lion, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. bullyon a hook used for fastening the
dress, a button, stud, an embossed ornament of various kinds, e.g.,
on the cover of a book, on bridles or poitrels, for purses, for
breeches and doublets, LL. bullio the swelling of boiling water, a
mass of gold or silver, fr. L. bulla boss, stud, bubble (see Bull an
edict), or perh. corrupted fr. billon base coin, LL. billio bullion.
Cf. Billon, Billet a stick.]

1. Uncoined gold or silver in the mass.

Note: Properly, the precious metals are called bullion, when smelted
and not perfectly refined, or when refined, but in bars, ingots or in
any form uncoined, as in plate. The word is often often used to
denote gold and silver, both coined and uncoined, when reckoned by
weight and in mass, including especially foreign, or uncurrent, coin.

2. Base or uncurrent coin. [Obs.]
And those which eld's strict doom did disallow, And damm for bullion,
go for current now. Sylvester.

3. Showy metallic ornament, as of gold, silver, or copper, on
bridles, saddles, etc. [Obs.]
The clasps and bullions were worth a thousand pound. Skelton.

4. Heavy twisted fringe, made of fine gold or silver wire and used
for epaulets; also, any heavy twisted fringe whose cords are
prominent.

BULLIONIST
Bul"lion*ist, n.

Defn: An advocate for a metallic currency, or a paper currency always
convertible into gold.

BULLIRAG
Bul"li*rag, v. t. Etym: [Cf. bully,n.& v., and rag to scold, rail.
Cf. Ballarag.]

Defn: To intimidate by bullying; to rally contemptuously; to badger.
[Low]

BULLISH
Bull"ish, a.

Defn: Partaking of the nature of a bull, or a blunder.
Let me inform you, a toothless satire is as improper as a toothed
sleek stone, and as bullish. Milton.

BULLIST
Bull"ist, n. Etym: [F. bulliste. See Bull an edict.]

Defn: A writer or drawer up of papal bulls. [R.] Harmar.

BULLITION
Bul*li"tion, n. Etym: [L. bullire, bullitum, to boil. See Boil, v.
i.]

Defn: The action of boiling; boiling. [Obs.] See Ebullition. Bacon.

BULL MOOSE
Bull Moose. (U. S. Politics)
 (a) A follower of Theodore Roosevelt in the presidential campaign of
1912; -- a sense said to have originated from a remark made by
Roosevelt on a certain occasion that he felt "like a bull moose."
[Cant]
 (b) The figure of a bull moose used as the party symbol of the
Progressive party in the presidential campaign of 1912. -- Bull
Mooser. [Cant]

BULL-NECKED
Bull"-necked`, a.

Defn: Having a short and thick neck like that of a bull. Sir W.
Scott.

BULLOCK
Bul"lock, n. Etym: [AS. bulluc a young bull. See Bull.]

1. A young bull, or any male of the ox kind.
Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven
years old. Judges vi. 25.

2. An ox, steer, or stag.

BULLOCK
Bul"lock, v. t.

Defn: To bully. [Obs.]
She shan't think to bullock and domineer over me. Foote.

BULLOCK'S-EYE
Bul"lock's-eye`, n.

Defn: See Bull's-eye, 3.

BULLON
Bul"lon, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A West Indian fish (Scarus Croicensis).

BULLPOUT
Bull"pout`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Bullhead, 1 (b).

BULL-ROARER
Bull"-roar`er, n.

Defn: A contrivance consisting of a slat of wood tied to the end of a
thong or string, with which the slat is whirled so as to cause an
intermittent roaring noise. It is used as a toy, and among some races
in certain religious rites.

BULL'S-EYE
Bull's"-eye`, n.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A small circular or oval wooden block without sheaves, having a
groove around it and a hole through it, used for connecting rigging.

2. A small round cloud, with a ruddy center, supposed by sailors to
portend a storm.

3. A small thick disk of glass inserted in a deck, roof, floor,
ship's side, etc., to let in light.

4. A circular or oval opening for air or light.

5. A lantern, with a thick glass lens on one side for concentrating
the light on any object; also, the lens itself. Dickens.

6. (Astron.)

Defn: Aldebaran, a bright star in the eye of Taurus or the Bull.

7. (Archery & Gun.)

Defn: The center of a target.

8. A thick knob or protuberance left on glass by the end of the pipe
through which it was blown.

9. A small and thick old-fashioned watch. [Colloq.]

BULL'S-NOSE
Bull's"-nose`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: An external angle when obtuse or rounded.

BULL TERRIER
Bull" ter"ri*er. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A breed of dogs obtained by crossing the bulldog and the
terrier.

BULL TROUT
Bull" trout`. (Zoöl.)
(a) In England, a large salmon trout of several species, as Salmo
trutta and S. Cambricus, which ascend rivers; -- called also sea
trout.
(b) Salvelinus malma of California and Oregon; -- called also Dolly
Varden trout and red-spotted trout.
(c) The huso or salmon of the Danube.

BULLWEED
Bull"weed`, n. Etym: [Bole a stem + weed.] (Bot.)

Defn: Knapweed. Prior.

BULLWORT
Bull"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Bishop's-weed.

BULLY
Bul"ly, n.; pl. Bullies (. Etym: [Cf. LG. bullerjaan, bullerbäk,
bullerbrook, a blusterer, D. bulderaar a bluster, bulderen to
bluster; prob. of imitative origin; or cf. MHG. buole lover, G.
buhle.]

1. A noisy, blustering fellow, more insolent than courageous; one who
is threatening and quarrelsome; an insolent, tyrannical fellow.
Bullies seldom execute the threats they deal in. Palmerston.

2. A brisk, dashing fellow. [Slang Obs.] Shak.

BULLY
Bul"ly, a.

1. Jovial and blustering; dashing. [Slang] "Bless thee, bully
doctor." Shak.

2. Fine; excellent; as, a bully horse. [Slang, U.S.]

BULLY
Bul"ly, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bullied; p. pr. & vb. n. Bullying.]

Defn: To intimidate with threats and by an overbearing, swaggering
demeanor; to act the part of a bully toward.
For the last fortnight there have been prodigious shoals of
volunteers gone over to bully the French, upon hearing the peace was
just signing. Tatler.

Syn.
 -- To bluster; swagger; hector; domineer.

BULLY
Bul"ly, v. i.

Defn: To act as a bully.

BULLY; BULLY BEEF
Bul"ly, n., Bul"ly beef`. [F. bouilli boiled meat, fr. bouillir to
boil. See Boil, v. The word bouilli was formerly commonly used on the
labels of canned beef.]

Defn: Pickled or canned beef.

BULLYRAG
Bul"ly*rag, v. t.

Defn: Same as Bullirag.

BULLYROCK
Bul"ly*rock`, n.

Defn: A bully. [Slang Obs.] Shak.

BULLY TREE
Bul"ly tree`. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of several West Indian trees of the order Sapotaceæ,
as Dipholis nigra and species of Sapota and Mimusops. Most of them
yield a substance closely resembling gutta-percha.

BULRUSH
Bul"rush`, n. Etym: [OE. bulrysche, bolroysche; of uncertain origin,
perh. fr. bole stem + rush.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of large rush, growing in wet land or in water.

Note: The name bulrush is applied in England especially to the cat-
tail (Typha latifolia and T. angustifolia) and to the lake club-rush
(Scirpus lacustris); in America, to the Juncus effusus, and also to
species of Scirpus or club-rush.

BULSE
Bulse, n.

Defn: A purse or bag in which to carry or measure diamonds, etc.
[India] Macaulay.

BULTEL
Bul"tel, n. Etym: [LL. bultellus. See Bolt to sift.]

Defn: A bolter or bolting cloth; also, bran. [Obs.]

BULTI
Bul"ti, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Bolty.

BULTONG
Bul"tong, n.

Defn: Biltong.

BULTOW
Bul"tow`, n.

Defn: A trawl; a boulter; the mod

BULWARK
Bul"wark, n. Etym: [Akin to D. bolwerk, G. bollwerk, Sw. bolwerk,
Dan. bolvärk, bulvärk, rampart; akin to G. bohle plank, and werk
work, defense. See Bole stem, and Work, n., and cf. Boulevard.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A rampart; a fortification; a bastion or outwork.

2. That which secures against an enemy, or defends from attack; any
means of defense or protection.
The royal navy of England hath ever been its greatest defense, . . .
the floating bulwark of our island. Blackstone.

3. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: The sides of a ship above the upper deck.

Syn.
 -- See Rampart.

BULWARK
Bul"wark, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bulwarked (; p. pr. & vb.n.
Bulwarking.]

Defn: To fortify with, or as with, a rampart or wall; to secure by
fortification; to protect.
Of some proud city, bulwarked round and armed With rising towers.
Glover.

BUM
Bum, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. bottom in this sense.]

Defn: The buttock. [Low] Shak.

BUM
Bum, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bummed (; p. pr. & vb.n. Bumming ( Etym:
[See Boom, v. i., to roar.]

Defn: To make murmuring or humming sound. Jamieson.

BUM
Bum, n.

Defn: A humming noise. Halliwell.

BUMBAILIFF
Bum"bail"iff, n. Etym: [A corruption of bound bailiff.] [Low, Eng.]

Defn: See Bound bailiff, under Bound, a.

BUMBARD
Bum"bard.

Defn: See Bombard. [Obs.]

BUMBARGE
Bum"barge`, n.

Defn: See Bumboat. Carlyle.

BUMBAST
Bum"bast.

Defn: See Bombast. [Obs.]

BUMBELO
Bum"be*lo, n.; pl. Bumbeloes. Etym: [It. bombola.]

Defn: A glass used in subliming camphor. [Spelled also bombolo and
bumbolo.]

BUMBLE
Bum"ble, n. Etym: [See Bump to boom.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bittern. [Local, Eng.]

BUMBLE
Bum"ble, v. i.

Defn: To make a hollow or humming noise, like that of a bumblebee; to
cry as a bittern.
As a bittern bumbleth in the mire. Chaucer.

BUMBLEBEE
Bum"ble*bee`, n. Etym: [OE. bumblen to make a humming noise (dim. of
bum, v.i.) + bee. Cf. Humblebee.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large bee of the genus Bombus, sometimes called humblebee; --
so named from its sound.

Note: There are many species. All gather honey, and store it in the
empty cocoons after the young have come out.

BUMBLEPUPPY
Bum"ble*pup`py, n. [Origin unknown; cf. Bumble, n.]

1.

Defn: The old game of nineholes.

2.  (Card Playing) Whist played in an unscientific way.

BUMBOAT
Bum"boat`, n. Etym: [From bum the buttocks, on account of its clumsy
form; or fr. D. bun a box for holding fish in a boat.] (Naut.)

Defn: A clumsy boat, used for conveying provisions, fruit, etc., for
sale, to vessels lying in port or off shore.

BUMKIN
Bum"kin, n. Etym: [Boom a beam + -kin. See Bumpkin.] (Naut.)

Defn: A projecting beam or boom; as: (a) One projecting from each bow
of a vessel, to haul the fore tack to, called a tack bumpkin. (b) Onr
from each quarter, for the main-brace blocks, and called brace
bumpkin. (c) A small outrigger over the stern of a boat, to extend
the mizzen. [Written also boomkin.]

BUMMALO
Bum"ma*lo, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small marine Asiatic fish (Saurus ophidon) used in India as a
relish; -- called also Bombay duck.

BUMMER
Bum"mer, n.

Defn: An idle, worthless fellow, who is without any visible means of
support; a dissipated sponger. [Slang, U.S.]

BUMMERY
Bum"me*ry, n.

Defn: See Bottomery. [Obs.]
There was a scivener of Wapping brought to hearing for relief against
a bummery bond. R. North.

BUMP
Bump, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bumped; p. pr. & vb. n. Bumping.] Etym:
[Cf. W. pwmp round mass, pwmpiaw to thump, bang, and E. bum, v.i.,
boom to roar.]

Defn: To strike, as with or against anything large or solid; to
thump; as, to bump the head against a wall.

BUMP
Bump, v. i.

Defn: To come in violent contact with something; to thump. "Bumping
and jumping." Southey.

BUMP
Bump, n. Etym: [From Bump to strike, to thump.]

1. A thump; a heavy blow.

2. A swelling or prominence, resulting from a bump or blow; a
protuberance.
It had upon its brow A bump as big as a young cockerel's stone. Shak.

3. (Phren.)

Defn: One of the protuberances on the cranium which are associated
with distinct faculties or affections of the mind; as, the bump of
"veneration;" the bump of "acquisitiveness." [Colloq.]

4. The act of striking the stern of the boat in advance with the prow
of the boat following. [Eng.]

BUMP
Bump, v. i. Etym: [See Boom to roar.]

Defn: To make a loud, heavy, or hollow noise, as the bittern; to
boom.
As a bittern bumps within a reed. Dryden.

BUMP
Bump, n.

Defn: The noise made by the bittern.

BUMPER
Bum"per, n. Etym: [A corruption of bumbard, bombard, a large drinking
vessel.]

1. A cup or glass filled to the brim, or till the liquor runs over,
particularly in drinking a health or toast.
He frothed his bumpers to the brim. Tennyson.

2. A covered house at a theater, etc., in honor of some favorite
performer. [Cant]

BUMPER
Bump"er, n.

1. That which bumps or causes a bump.

2. Anything which resists or deadens a bump or shock; a buffer.

BUMPKIN
Bump"kin, n. Etym: [The same word as bumkin, which Cotgrave defines
thus: "Bumkin, Fr. chicambault, the luffe-block, a long and thick
piece of wood, whereunto the fore-sayle and sprit-sayle are fastened,
when a ship goes by the winde." Hence, a clumsy man may easily have
been compared to such a block of wood; cf. OD. boomken a little tree.
See Boom a pole.]

Defn: An awkward, heavy country fellow; a clown; a country lout.
"Bashful country bumpkins." W. Irving.

BUMPTIOUS
Bump"tious, a.

Defn: Self-conceited; forward; pushing. [Colloq.] Halliwell.

BUMPTIOUSNESS
Bump"tious*ness, n.

Defn: Conceitedness. [Colloq.]

BUN; BUNN
Bun, Bunn, n. Etym: [Scot. bun, bunn, OE. bunne, bonne; fr. Celtic;
cf. Ir. bunna, Gael. bonnach, or OF. bugne tumor, Prov. F. bugne a
kind of pancake; akin to OHG. bungo bulb, MHG. bunge, Prov. E. bung
heap, cluster, bunny a small swelling.]

Defn: A slightly sweetened raised cake or bisquit with a glazing of
sugar and milk on the top crust.

BUNCH
Bunch, n. Etym: [Akin to OSw. & Dan. bunke heap, Icel. bunki heap,
pile, bunga tumor, protuberance; cf. W. pwng cluster. Cf. Bunk.]

1. A protuberance; a hunch; a knob or lump; a hump.
They will carry . . . their treasures upon the bunches of camels.
Isa. xxx. 6.

2. A collection, cluster, or tuft, properly of things of the same
kind, growing or fastened together; as, a bunch of grapes; a bunch of
keys.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A small isolated mass of ore, as distinguished from a
continuous vein. Page.

BUNCH
Bunch, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Buncheder (p. pr. & vb.n. Bunchinger.]

Defn: To swell out into a bunch or protuberance; to be protuberant or
round.
Bunching out into a large round knob at one end. Woodward.

BUNCH
Bunch, v. t.

Defn: To form into a bunch or bunches.

BUNCH-BACKED
Bunch"-backed`, a.

Defn: Having a bunch on the back; crooked. "Bunch-backed toad." Shak.

BUNCHBERRY
Bunch"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The dwarf cornel (Cornus Canadensis), which bears a dense
cluster of bright red, edible berries.

BUNCH GRASS
Bunch" grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: A grass growing in bunches and affording pasture. In
California, Atropis tenuifolia, Festuca scabrella, and several kinds
of Stipa are favorite bunch grasses. In Utah, Eriocoma cuspidata is a
good bunch grass.

BUNCHINESS
Bunch"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being bunchy; knobbiness.

BUNCHY
Bunch"y, a.

1. Swelling out in bunches.
An unshapen, bunchy spear, with bark unpiled. Phaer.

2. Growing in bunches, or resembling a bunch; having tufts; as, the
bird's bunchy tail.

3. (Mining)

Defn: Yielding irregularly; sometimes rich, sometimes poor; as, a
bunchy mine. Page.

BUNCOMBE; BUNKUM
Bun"combe, Bun"kum, n. Etym: [Buncombe a country of North Carolina.]

Defn: Speech-making for the gratification of constituents, or to gain
public applause; flattering talk for a selfish purpose; anything said
for mere show. [Cant or Slang, U.S.]
All that flourish about right of search was bunkum -- all that brag
about hanging your Canada sheriff was bunkum . . . slavery speeches
are all bunkum. Haliburton.
To speak for Buncombe, to speak for mere show, or popularly.

Note: "The phrase originated near the close of the debate on the
famous 'Missouri Question,' in the 16th Congress. It was then used by
Felix Walker -- a naïve old mountaineer, who resided at Waynesville,
in Haywood, the most western country of North Carolina, near the
border of the adjacent country of Buncombe, which formed part of his
district. The old man rose to speak, while the house was impatiently
calling for the 'Question,' and several members gathered round him,
begging him to desist. He preserved, however, for a while, declaring
that the people of his district expected it, and that he was bound to
'make a speech for Buncombe.'" W. Darlington.

BUND
Bund, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: League; confederacy; esp. the confederation of German states.

BUND
Bund, n. Etym: [Hindi band.]

Defn: An embankment against inundation. [India] S. Wells Williams.

BUNDER
Bun"der, n. Etym: [Pers. bandar a landing place, pier.]

Defn: A boat or raft used in the East Indies in the landing of
passengers and goods.

BUNDESRATH
Bun"des*rath`, n. Etym: [G., from bund (akin to E. bond) confederacy
+ rath council, prob. akin to E. read.]

Defn: The federal council of the German Empire. In the Bundesrath and
the Reichstag are vested the legislative functions. The federal
council of Switzerland is also so called.

Note: The Bundesrath of the German empire is presided over by a
chancellor, and is composed of sixty-two members, who represent the
different states of the empire, being appointed for each session by
their respective governments.
By this united congress, the highest tribunal of Switzerland, -- the
Bundesrath -- is chosen, and the head of this is a president. J. P.
Peters (Trans. Müller's Pol. Hist. ).

BUNDES-VERSAMMLUNG
Bun"des-Ver*samm"lung, n. [G.; bund confederacy + versammlung
assembly.]

Defn: See Legislature, Switzerland.

BUNDLE
Bun"dle, n. Etym: [OE. bundel, AS. byndel; akin to D. bondel, bundel,
G. bündel, dim. of bund bundle, fr. the root of E. bind. See Bind.]

Defn: A number of things bound together, as by a cord or envelope,
into a mass or package convenient for handling or conveyance; a loose
package; a roll; as, a bundle of straw or of paper; a bundle of old
clothes.
The fable of the rods, which, when united in a bundle, no strength
could bend. Goldsmith.
Bundle pillar (Arch.), a column or pier, with others of small
dimensions attached to it. Weale.

BUNDLE
Bun"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bundled (p. pr. & vb.n. Bundling (.]

1. To tie or bind in a bundle or roll.

2. To send off abruptly or without ceremony.
They unmercifully bundled me and my gallant second into our own
hackney coach. T. Hook.
To bundle off, to send off in a hurry, or without ceremony.
 -- To bundle one's self up, to wrap one's self up warmly or
cumbrously.

BUNDLE
Bun"dle, v. i.

1. To prepare for departure; to set off in a hurry or without
ceremony.

2. To sleep on the same bed without undressing; -- applied to the
custom of a man and woman, especially lovers, thus sleeping.
Bartlett.
Van Corlear stopped occasionally in the villages to eat pumpkin pies,
dance at country frolics, and bundle with the Yankee lasses. W.
Irving.

BUNDOBUST
Bun"do*bust, n. [Hind. & Per. bando-bast tying and binding.]

Defn: System; discipline. [India]

He has more bundobust than most men.
Kipling.

BUNG
Bung, n. Etym: [Cf. W. bwng orfice, bunghole, Ir. buinne tap, spout,
OGael. buine.]

1. The large stopper of the orifice in the bilge of a cask.

2. The orifice in the bilge of a cask through which it is filled;
bunghole.

3. A sharper or pickpocket. [Obs. & Low]
You filthy bung, away. Shak.

BUNG
Bung, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bunged; p. pr. & vb. n. Bunging.]

Defn: To stop, as the orifice in the bilge of a cask, with a bung; to
close; -- with up. To bung up, to use up, as by bruising or over
exertion; to exhaust or incapacitate for action. [Low]
He had bunged up his mouth that he should not have spoken these three
years. Shelton (Trans. Don Quixote).

BUNGALOW
Bun"ga*low, n. Etym: [Bengalee bangla]

Defn: A thatched or tiled house or cottage, of a single story,
usually surrounded by a veranda. [India]

BUNGARUM
Bun"ga*rum, n. Etym: [Bungar, the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A venomous snake of India, of the genus Bungarus, allied to the
cobras, but without a hood.

BUNGHOLE
Bung"hole`, n.

Defn: See Bung, n., 2. Shak.

BUNGLE
Bun"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bungled (; p. pr. & vb. n. Bungling.]
Etym: [Prob. a diminutive from, akin to bang; cf. Prov. G. bungen to
beat, bang, OSw. bunga. See Bang.]

Defn: To act or work in a clumsy, awkward manner.

BUNGLE
Bun"gle, v. t.

Defn: To make or mend clumsily; to manage awkwardly; to botch; --
sometimes with up.
I always had an idea that it would be bungled. Byron.

BUNGLE
Bun"gle, n.

Defn: A clumsy or awkward performance; a botch; a gross blunder.
Those errors and bungles which are committed. Cudworth.

BUNGLER
Bun"gler, n.

Defn: A clumsy, awkward workman; one who bungles.
If to be a dunce or a bungler in any profession be shameful, how much
more ignominious and infamous to a scholar to be such! Barrow.

BUNGLING
Bun"gling, a.

Defn: Unskillful; awkward; clumsy; as, a bungling workman. Swift.
They make but bungling work. Dryden.

BUNGLINGLY
Bun"gling*ly, adv.

Defn: Clumsily; awkwardly.

BUNGO
Bun"go, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A kind of canoe used in Central and South America; also, a kind
of boat used in the Southern United States. Bartlett.

BUNION
Bun"ion, n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Bunyon.

BUNK
Bunk, n. Etym: [Cf. OSw. bunke heap, also boaring, flooring. Cf.
Bunch.]

1. A wooden case or box, which serves for a seat in the daytime and
for a bed at night. [U.S.]

2. One of a series of berths or bed places in tiers.

3. A piece of wood placed on a lumberman's sled to sustain the end of
heavy timbers. [Local, U.S.]

BUNK
Bunk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bunked; p. pr. & vb. n. Bunking.]

Defn: To go to bed in a bunk; -- sometimes with in. [Colloq. U.S.]
Bartlett.

BUNKER
Bun"ker, n. Etym: [Scot. bunker, bunkart, a bench, or low chest,
serving for a seat. Cf. Bunk, Bank, Bench.]

1. A sort of chest or box, as in a window, the lid of which serves
for a seat. [Scot.] Jamieson.

2. A large bin or similar receptacle; as, a coal bunker.

BUNKO
Bun"ko, n. Etym: [Sf. Sp. banco bank, banca a sort of game at cards.
Cf. Bank (in the commercial sense).]

Defn: A kind of swindling game or scheme, by means of cards or by a
sham lottery. [Written also bunco.] Bunko steerer, a person employed
as a decoy in bunko. [Slang, U.S.]

BUNKUM
Bun"kum, n.

Defn: See Buncombe.

BUNN
Bunn, n.

Defn: See Bun.

BUNNIAN
Bun"nian, n.

Defn: See Bunyon.

BUNNY
Bun"ny, n. (Mining)

Defn: A great collection of ore without any vein coming into it or
going out from it.

BUNNY
Bun"ny, n.

Defn: A pet name for a rabbit or a squirrel.

BUNODONTA; BUNODONTS
Bu`no*don"ta, Bu"no*donts, n. pl. Etym: [NL. bunodonta, fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the herbivorous mammals including the hogs and
hippopotami; -- so called because the teeth are tuberculated.

BUNSEN CELL
Bun"sen cell. (Elec.)

Defn: A zinc-carbon cell in which the zinc (amalgamated) is
surrounded by dilute sulphuric acid, and the carbon by nitric acid or
a chromic acid mixture, the two plates being separated by a porous
cup.

BUNSEN'S BATTERY; BUNSEN'S BURNER
Bun"sen's bat"ter*y, Bun"sen's burn`er.

Defn: See under Battery, and Burner.

BUNT
Bunt, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A fungus (Ustilago foetida) which affects the ear of cereals,
filling the grains with a fetid dust; -- also called pepperbrand.

BUNT
Bunt, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. bunt bundle, Dan. bundt, G. bund, E. bundle.]
(Naut.)

Defn: The middle part, cavity, or belly of a sail; the part of a
furled sail which is at the center of the yard. Totten.

BUNT
Bunt, v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: To swell out; as, the sail bunts.

BUNT
Bunt, v. t. & i.

Defn: To strike or push with the horns or head; to butt; as, the ram
bunted the boy.

BUNTER
Bun"ter, n.

Defn: A woman who picks up rags in the streets; hence, a low, vulgar
woman. [Cant]
Her . . . daughters, like bunters in stuff gowns. Goldsmith.

BUNTING
Bun"ting, n. Etym: [Scot. buntlin, corn-buntlin, OE. bunting,
buntyle; of unknown origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the genus Emberiza, or of an allied genus, related to
the finches and sparrows (family Fringillidæ).

Note: Among European species are the common or corn bunting (Emberiza
miliaria); the ortolan (E. hortulana); the cirl (E. cirlus); and the
black-headed (Granitivora melanocephala). American species are the
bay-winged or grass (Poöcætes or Pooecetes gramineus); the black-
throated (Spiza Americana); the towhee bunting or chewink (Pipilo);
the snow bunting (Plectrophanax nivalis); the rice bunting or
bobolink, and others. See Ortolan, Chewick, Snow bunting, Lark
bunting.

BUNTING; BUNTINE
Bun"ting, Bun"tine, n. Etym: [Prov. E. bunting sifting flour, OE.
bonten to sift, hence prob. the material used for that purpose.]

Defn: A thin woolen stuff, used chiefly for flags, colors, and ships'
signals.

BUNTLINE
Bunt"line, n. Etym: [2d bunt + line.] (Naut.)

Defn: One of the ropes toggled to the footrope of a sail, used to
haul up to the yard the body of the sail when taking it in. Totten.

BUNYON; BUNION
Bun"yon, Bun"ion, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. bunny a small swelling, fr.
OF. bugne, It. bugna, bugnone. See Bun.] (Med.)

Defn: An enlargement and inflammation of a small membranous sac (one
of the bursæ muscosæ), usually occurring on the first joint of the
great toe.

BUOY
Buoy, n. Etym: [D. boei buoy, fetter, fr. OF. boie, buie, chain,
fetter, F. bouée a buoy, from L. boia. "Boiae genus vinculorum tam
ferreae quam ligneae." Festus. So called because chained to its
place.] (Naut.)

Defn: A float; esp. a floating object moored to the bottom, to mark a
channel or to point out the position of something beneath the water,
as an anchor, shoal, rock, etc. Anchor buoy, a buoy attached to, or
marking the position of, an anchor.
 -- Bell buoy, a large buoy on which a bell is mounted, to be rung by
the motion of the waves.
 -- Breeches buoy. See under Breeches.
 -- Cable buoy, an empty cask employed to buoy up the cable in rocky
anchorage.
 -- Can buoy, a hollow buoy made of sheet or boiler iron, usually
conical or pear-shaped.
 -- Life buoy, a float intended to support persons who have fallen
into the water, until a boat can be dispatched to save them.
 -- Nut or Nun buoy, a buoy large in the middle, and tapering nearly
to a point at each end.
 -- To stream the buoy, to let the anchor buoy fall by the ship's
side into the water, before letting go the anchor.
 -- Whistling buoy, a buoy fitted with a whistle that is blown by the
action of the waves.

BUOY
Buoy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Buoyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Buoying.]

1. To keep from sinking in a fluid, as in water or air; to keep
afloat; -- with up.

2. To support or sustain; to preserve from sinking into ruin or
despondency.
Those old prejudices, which buoy up the ponderous mass of his
nobility, wealth, and title. Burke.

3. To fix buoys to; to mark by a buoy or by buoys; as, to buoy an
anchor; to buoy or buoy off a channel.
Not one rock near the surface was discovered which was not buoyed by
this floating weed. Darwin.

BUOY
Buoy, v. i.

Defn: To float; to rise like a buoy. "Rising merit will buoy up at
last." Pope.

BUOYAGE
Buoy"age, n.

Defn: Buoys, taken collectively; a series of buoys, as for the
guidance of vessels into or out of port; the providing of buoys.

BUOYANCE
Buoy"ance, n.

Defn: Buoyancy. [R.]

BUOYANCY
Buoy"an*cy, n.; pl. Buoyancies (.

1. The property of floating on the surface of a liquid, or in a
fluid, as in the atmosphere; specific lightness, which is inversely
as the weight compared with that of an equal volume of water.

2. (Physics)

Defn: The upward pressure exerted upon a floating body by a fluid,
which is equal to the weight of the body; hence, also, the weight of
a floating body, as measured by the volume of fluid displaced.
Such are buoyancies or displacements of the different classes of her
majesty's ships. Eng. Cyc.

3. Cheerfulness; vivacity; liveliness; sprightliness; -- the opposite
of Ant: heaviness; as, buoyancy of spirits.

BUOYANT
Buoy"ant, a. Etym: [From Buoy, v. t. & i.]

1. Having the quality of rising or floating in a fluid; tending to
rise or float; as, iron is buoyant in mercury. "Buoyant on the
flood." Pope.

2. Bearing up, as a fluid; sustaining another body by being
specifically heavier.
The water under me was buoyant. Dryden.

3. Light-hearted; vivacious; cheerful; as, a buoyant disposition;
buoyant spirits.
 -- Buoy"ant*ly, adv.

BUPRESTIDAN
Bu*pres"ti*dan, n. Etym: [L. buprestis, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tribe of beetles, of the genus Buprestis and allied
genera, usually with brilliant metallic colors. The larvæ are usually
bores in timber, or beneath bark, and are often very destructive to
trees.

BUR; BURR
Bur, Burr, n. Etym: [OE. burre burdock; cf. Dan. borre, OSw. borra,
burdock, thistle; perh. akin to E. bristle (burr- for burz-), or
perh. to F. bourre hair, wool, stuff; also, according to Cotgrave,
"the downe, or hairie coat, wherewith divers herbes, fruits, and
flowers, are covered," fr. L. burrae trifles, LL. reburrus rough.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Any rough or prickly envelope of the seeds of plants, whether a
pericarp, a persistent calyx, or an involucre, as of the chestnut and
burdock. Also, any weed which bears burs.
Amongst rude burs and thistles. Milton.
Bur and brake and brier. Tennyson.

2. The thin ridge left by a tool in cutting or shaping metal. See
Burr, n., 2.

3. A ring of iron on a lance or spear. See Burr, n., 4.

4. The lobe of the ear. See Burr, n., 5.

5. The sweetbread.

6. A clinker; a partially vitrified brick.

7. (Mech.)
(a) A small circular saw.
(b) A triangular chisel.
(c) A drill with a serrated head larger than the shank; -- used by
dentists.

8. Etym: [Cf. Gael. borr, borra, a knob, bunch.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The round knob of an antler next to a deer's head. [Commonly
written burr.] Bur oak (Bot.), a useful and ornamental species of oak
(Quercus macrocarpa) with ovoid acorns inclosed in deep cups
imbricated with pointed scales. It grows in the Middle and Western
United States, and its wood is tough, close-grained, and durable.
 -- Bur reed (Bot.), a plant of the genus Sparganium, having long
ribbonlike leaves.

BURBOLT
Bur"bolt`, n.

Defn: A birdbolt. [Obs.] Ford.

BURBOT
Bur"bot, n. Etym: [F. barbote, fr. barbe beard. See 1st Barb.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A fresh-water fish of the genus Lota, having on the nose two
very small barbels, and a larger one on the chin. [Written also
burbolt.]

Note: The fish is also called an eelpout or ling, and is allied to
the codfish. The Lota vulgaris is a common European species. An
American species (L. maculosa) is found in New England, the Great
Lakes, and farther north.

BURDELAIS
Bur`de*lais", n. Etym: [F. bourdelais, prob. fr. bordelais. See
Bordelais.]

Defn: A sort of grape. Jonson.

BURDEN
Bur"den, n. [Written also burthen.] Etym: [OE. burden, burthen,
birthen, birden, AS. byredhen; akin to Icel. byredhi, Dan. byrde, Sw.
börda, G. bürde, OHG. burdi, Goth. baúr, fr. the root of E. bear, AS.
beran, Goth. bairan. *92. See 1st Bear.]

1. That which is borne or carried; a load.
Plants with goodly burden bowing. Shak.

2. That which is borne with labor or difficulty; that which is
grievous, wearisome, or oppressive.
Deaf, giddy, helpless, left alone, To all my friends a burden grown.
Swift.

3. The capacity of a vessel, or the weight of cargo that she will
carry; as, a ship of a hundred tons burden.

4. (Mining)

Defn: The tops or heads of stream-work which lie over the stream of
tin.

5. (Metal.)

Defn: The proportion of ore and flux to fuel, in the charge of a
blast furnace. Raymond.

6. A fixed quantity of certain commodities; as, a burden of gad
steel, 120 pounds.

7. A birth. [Obs. & R.] Shak. Beast of burden, an animal employed in
carrying burdens.
 -- Burden of proof Etym: [L. onus probandi] (Law), the duty of
proving a particular position in a court of law, a failure in the
performance of which duty calls for judgment against the party on
whom the duty is imposed.

Syn.
 -- Burden, Load. A burden is, in the literal sense, a weight to be
borne; a load is something laid upon us to be carried. Hence, when
used figuratively, there is usually a difference between the two
words. Our burdens may be of such a nature that we feel bound to bear
them cheerfully or without complaint. They may arise from the nature
of our situation; they may be allotments of Providence; they may be
the consequences of our errors. What is upon us, as a load, we
commonly carry with greater reluctance or sense of oppression. Men
often find the charge of their own families to be a burden; but if to
this be added a load of care for others, the pressure is usually
serve and irksome.