

BURDEN
Bur"den, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Burdened; p. pr. & vb. n. Burdening.]

1. To encumber with weight (literal or figurative); to lay a heavy
load upon; to load.
I mean not that other men be eased, and ye burdened. 2 Cor. viii. 13.

2. To oppress with anything grievous or trying; to overload; as, to
burden a nation with taxes.
My burdened heart would break. Shak.

3. To impose, as a load or burden; to lay or place as a burden
(something heavy or objectionable). [R.]
It is absurd to burden this act on Cromwell. Coleridge.

Syn.
 -- To load; encumber; overload; oppress.

BURDEN
Bur"den, n. Etym: [OE. burdoun the bass in music, F. bourdon; cf. LL.
burdo drone, a long organ pipe, a staff, a mule. Prob. of imitative
origin. Cf. Bourdon.]

1. The verse repeated in a song, or the return of the theme at the
end of each stanza; the chorus; refrain. Hence: That which is often
repeated or which is dwelt upon; the main topic; as, the burden of a
prayer.
I would sing my song without a burden. Shak.

2. The drone of a bagpipe. Ruddiman.

BURDEN
Bur"den, n. Etym: [See Burdon.]

Defn: A club. [Obs.] Spenser.

BURDENER
Bur"den*er, n.

Defn: One who loads; a oppressor.

BURDENOUS
Bur"den*ous, a.

Defn: Burdensome. [Obs.] "Burdenous taxations." Shak.

BURDENSOME
Bur"den*some, a.

Defn: Grievous to be borne; causing uneasiness or fatigue;
oppressive.
The debt immense of endless gratitude So burdensome. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Heavy; weighty; cumbersome; onerous; grievous; oppressive;
troublesome.
 -- Bur"den*some*ly, adv.
 -- Bur"den*some*ness, n.

BURDOCK
Bur"dock, n. Etym: [Bur + dock the plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of coarse biennial herbs (Lappa), bearing small burs
which adhere tenaciously to clothes, or to the fur or wool of
animals.

Note: The common burdock is the Lappa officinalis.

BURDON
Bur"don, n. Etym: [See Bourdon.]

Defn: A pilgrim's staff. [Written also burden.] Rom. of R.

BUREAU
Bu"reau, n.; pl. E. Bureaus, F. Bureaux. Etym: [F. bureau a writing
table, desk, office, OF., drugget, with which a writing table was
often covered, equiv. to F. bure, and fr. OF. buire dark brown, the
stuff being named from its color, fr. L. burrus red, fr. Gr. Fire,
n., and cf. Borel, n.]

1. Originally, a desk or writing table with drawers for papers.
Swift.

2. The place where such a bureau is used; an office where business
requiring writing is transacted.

3. Hence: A department of public business requiring a force of
clerks; the body of officials in a department who labor under the
direction of a chief.

Note: On the continent of Europe, the highest departments, in most
countries, have the name of bureaux; as, the Bureau of the Minister
of Foreign Affairs. In England and America, the term is confined to
inferior and subordinate departments; as, the "Pension Bureau," a
subdepartment of the Department of the Interior. [Obs.] In Spanish,
bureo denotes a court of justice for the trial of persons belonging
to the king's household.

4. A chest of drawers for clothes, especially when made as an
ornamental piece of furniture. [U.S.] Bureau system. See Bureaucracy.
 -- Bureau Veritas, an institution, in the interest of maritime
underwriters, for the survey and rating of vessels all over the
world. It was founded in Belgium in 1828, removed to Paris in 1830,
and reëstablished in Brussels in 1870.

BUREAUCRACY
Bu*reau"cra*cy, n. Etym: [Bureau + Gr. bureaucratie.]

1. A system of carrying on the business of government by means of
departments or bureaus, each under the control of a chief, in
contradiction to a system in which the officers of government have an
associated authority and responsibility; also, government conducted
on this system.

2. Government officials, collectively.

BUREAUCRAT
Bu*reau"crat, n.

Defn: An official of a bureau; esp. an official confirmed in a narrow
and arbitrary routine. C. Kingsley.

BUREAUCRATIC; BUREAUCRATICAL
Bu`reau*crat"ic, Bu`reau*crat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
bureaucratique.]

Defn: Of, relating to, or resembling, a bureaucracy.

BUREAUCRATIST
Bu*reau"cra*tist, n.

Defn: An advocate for , or supporter of, bureaucracy.

BUREL
Bur"el, n. & a.

Defn: Same as Borrel.

BURETTE
Bu*rette", n. Etym: [F., can, cruet, dim. of buire flagon.] (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus for delivering measured quantities of liquid or
for measuring the quantity of liquid or gas received or discharged.
It consists essentially of a graduated glass tube, usually furnished
with a small aperture and stopcock.

BUR FISH
Bur" fish`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spinose, plectognath fish of the Allantic coast of the United
States (esp. Chilo mycterus geometricus) having the power of
distending its body with water or air, so as to resemble a chestnut
bur; -- called also ball fish, balloon fish, and swellfish.

BURG
Burg, n. Etym: [AS. burh, burg, cf. LL. burgus. See 1st Borough.]

1. A fortified town. [Obs.]

2. A borough. [Eng.] See 1st Borough.

BURGAGE
Burg"age, n. Etym: [From Burg: cf. F. bourgage, LL. burgagium.] (Eng.
Law)

Defn: A tenure by which houses or lands are held of the king or other
lord of a borough or city; at a certain yearly rent, or by services
relating to trade or handicraft. Burrill.

BURGALL
Bur"gall, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small marine fish; -- also called cunner.

BURGAMOT
Bur"ga*mot, n.

Defn: See Bergamot.

BURGANET
Bur"ga*net, n.

Defn: See Burgonet.

BURGEE
Bur"gee, n.

1. A kind of small coat.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A swallow-tailed flag; a distinguishing pen

BURGEOIS
Bur*geois", n. (Print.)

Defn: See 1st Bourgeous.

BURGEOIS
Bur*geois", n.

Defn: A burgess; a citizen. See 2d Bourgeois. [R.] Addison.

BURGEON
Bur"geon, v. i.

Defn: To bud. See Bourgeon.

BURGESS
Bur"gess, n. Etym: [OE. burgeis, OF. burgeis, fr. burcfortified town,
town, F. bourg village, fr. LL. burgus fort, city; from the German;
cf. MHG. burc, G. burg. See 1st Borough, and cf. 2d Bourgeois.]

1. An inhabitant of a borough or walled town, or one who possesses a
tenement therein; a citizen or freeman of a borough. Blackstone.

Note: "A burgess of a borough corresponds with a citizen of a city."
Burrill.

2. One who represents a borough in Parliament.

3. A magistrate of a borough.

4. An inhabitant of a Scotch burgh qualified to vote for municipal
officers.

Note: Before the Revolution, the representatives in the popular
branch of the legislature of Virginia were called burgesses; they are
now called delegates. Burgess oath. See Burgher, 2.

BURGESS-SHIP
Bur"gess-ship, n.

Defn: The state of privilege of a burgess. South.

BURGGRAVE
Burg"grave, n. Etym: [G. burggraf; burg fortress + graf count: cf. D.
burggraaf, F. burgrave. See Margrave.] (Gremany)

Defn: Originally, one appointed to the command of a burg (fortress or
castle); but the title afterward became hereditary, with a domain
attached.

BURGH
Burgh, n. Etym: [OE. See Burg.]

Defn: A borough or incorporated town, especially, one in Scotland.
See Borough.

BURGHAL
Burgh"al, a.

Defn: Belonging of a burgh.

BURGHBOTE
Burgh"bote`, n. Etym: [Burgh + bote.] (Old Law)

Defn: A contribution toward the building or repairing of castles or
walls for the defense of a city or town.

BURGHBRECH
Burgh"brech`, n. Etym: [Burgh + F. brèche, equiv. to E. breach.] (AS.
Law)

Defn: The offense of violating the pledge given by every inhabitant
of a tithing to keep the peace; breach of the peace. Burrill.

BURGHER
Burgh"er, n. Etym: [From burgh; akin to D. burger, G. bürger, Dan.
borger, Sw. borgare. See Burgh.]

1. A freeman of a burgh or borough, entitled to enjoy the privileges
of the place; any inhabitant of a borough.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A member of that party, among the Scotch seceders, which
asserted the lawfulness of the burgess oath (in which burgesses
profess "the true religion professed within the realm"), the opposite
party being called antiburghers.

Note: These parties arose among the Presbyterians of Scotland, in
1747, and in 1820 reunited under the name of the "United Associate
Synod of the Secession Church."

BURGHERMASTER
Burgh"er*mas`ter, n.

Defn: See Burgomaster.

BURGHERSHIP
Burgh"er*ship, n.

Defn: The state or privileges of a burgher.

BURGHMASTER
Burgh"mas`ter, n.

1. A burgomaster.

2. (Mining)

Defn: An officer who directs and lays out the meres or boundaries for
the workmen; -- called also bailiff, and barmaster. [Eng.]

BURGHMOTE
Burgh"mote`, n. (AS. Law) Etym: [Burgh + mote meeting.]

Defn: A court or meeting of a burgh or borough; a borough court held
three times yearly.

BURGLAR
Bur"glar, n. Etym: [OE. burg town, F. bourg, fr. LL. burgus (of
German origin) + OF. lere thief, fr. L. latro. See Borough, and
Larceny.] (Law)

Defn: One guilty of the crime of burglary. Burglar alarm, a device
for giving alarm if a door or window is opened from without.

BURGLARER
Bur"glar*er, n.

Defn: A burglar. [Obs.]

BURGLARIOUS
Bur*gla"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to burglary; constituting the crime of burglary.
To come down a chimney is held a burglarious entry. Blackstone.

BURGLARIOUSLY
Bur*gla"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: With an intent to commit burglary; in the manner of a burglar.
Blackstone.

BURGLARY
Bur"gla*ry, n.; pl. Burglaries (. Etym: [Fr. Burglar; cf. LL.
burglaria.] (Law)

Defn: Breaking and entering the dwelling house of another, in the
nighttime, with intent to commit a felony therein, whether the
felonious purpose be accomplished or not. Wharton. Burrill.

Note: By statute law in some of the United States, burglary includes
the breaking with felonious intent into a house by day as well as by
night, and into other buildings than dwelling houses. Various degrees
of the crime are established.

BURGOMASTER
Bur"go*mas`ter, n. Etym: [D. burgemeester; burg borough + meester
master; akin to G. burgemeister, bürgermeister. See 1st Borough, and
Master.]

1. A chief magistrate of a municipal town in Holland, Flanders, and
Germany, corresponding to mayor in England and the United States; a
burghmaster.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An aquatic bird, the glaucous gull (Larus glaucus), common in
arctic regions.

BURGONET
Bur"go*net, n. Etym: [F. bouruignotte, because the Burgundians, F.
Bouruignons, first used it.]

Defn: A kind of helmet. [Written also burganet.] Shak.

BURGOO
Bur"goo, n. Etym: [Prov. E. burgood yeast, perh. fr. W. burym yeast +
cawl cabbage, gruel.]

Defn: A kind of oatmeal pudding, or thick gruel, used by seamen.
[Written also burgout.]

BURGRASS
Bur"grass`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Grass of the genus Cenchrus, growing in sand, and having burs
for fruit.

BURGRAVE
Bur"grave, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Burggrave.

BURGUNDY
Bur"gun*dy, n.

1. An old province of France (in the eastern central part).

2. A richly flavored wine, mostly red, made in Burgundy, France.
Burgundy pitch, a resinous substance prepared from the exudation of
the Norway spruce (Abies excelsa) by melting in hot water and
straining through cloth. The genuine Burgundy pitch, supposed to have
been first prepared in Burgundy, is rare, but there are many
imitations. It has a yellowish brown color, is translucent and hard,
but viscous. It is used in medicinal plasters.

BURH
Burh, n.

Defn: See Burg. [Obs.]

BURHEL; BURRHEL
Bur"hel, Burr"hel, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wild Himalayan, or blue, sheep (Ovis burrhel).

BURIAL
Bur"i*al, n. Etym: [OE. buriel, buriels, grave, tomb, AS. byrgels,
fr. byrgan to bury, and akin to OS. burgisli sepulcher.]

1. A grave; a tomb; a place of sepulture. [Obs.]
The erthe schook, and stoones weren cloven, and biriels weren opened.
Wycliff [Matt. xxvii. 51, 52].

2. The act of burying; depositing a dead body in the earth, in a tomb
or vault, or in the water, usually with attendant ceremonies;
sepulture; interment. "To give a public burial." Shak.
Now to glorious burial slowly borne. Tennyson.
Burial case, a form of coffin, usually of iron, made to close air-
tight, for the preservation of a dead body.
 -- Burial ground, a piece of ground selected and set apart for a
place of buriials, and consecrated to such use by religious
ceremonies.
 -- Burial place, any place where burials are made.
 -- Burial service. (a) The religious service performed at the
interment of the dead; a funeral service. (b) That portion of a
liturgy which is read at an interment; as, the English burial
service.

Syn.
 -- Sepulture; interment; inhumation.

BURIER
Bur"i*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, buries.
Till the buriers have buried it. Ezek. xxxix. 15.
And darkness be the burier of the dead. Shak.

BURIN
Bu"rin, n. Etym: [F. burin, cf. It. burino, bulino; prob. from OHG.
bora borer, boron to bore, G. bohren. See 1st Bore.]

1. The cutting tool of an engraver on metal, used in line engraving.
It is made of tempered steel, one end being ground off obliquely so
as to produce a sharp point, and the other end inserted in a handle;
a graver; also, the similarly shaped tool used by workers in marble.

2. The manner or style of execution of an engraver; as, a soft burin;
a brilliant burin.

BURINIST
Bu"rin*ist, n.

Defn: One who works with the burin. For. Quart. Rev.

BURION
Bu"ri*on, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The red-breasted house sparrow of California (Carpodacus
frontalis); -- called also crimson-fronted bullfinch. [Written also
burrion.]

BURKE
Burke, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Burkeder, p. pr. & vb.n. Burkinger.] Etym:
[From one Burke of Edinburgh, who committed the crime in 1829.]

1. To murder by suffocation, or so as to produce few marks of
violence, for the purpose of obtaining a body to be sold for
dissection.

2. To dispose of quietly or indirectly; to suppress; to smother; to
shelve; as, to burke a parliamentary question.
The court could not burke an inquiry, supported by such a mass of a
affidavits. C. Reade.

BURKISM
Burk"ism, n.

Defn: The practice of killing persons for the purpose of selling
their bodies for dissection.

BURL
Burl, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Burled (; p. pr. & vb. n. Burling.] Etym:
[OE. burle stuffing, or a knot in cloth; cf. F. bourlet, bourrelet,
OF. bourel, a wreath or a roll of cloth, linen, or leather, stuffed
with flocks, etc., dim. of bourre. *92. See Bur.]

Defn: To dress or finish up (cloth); to pick knots, burs, loose
threads, etc., from, as in finishing cloth. Burling iron, a peculiar
kind of nippers or tweezers used in burling woolen cloth.

BURL
Burl, n.

1. A knot or lump in thread or cloth.

2. An overgrown knot, or an excrescence, on a tree; also, veneer made
from such excrescences.

BURLAP
Bur"lap, n.

Defn: A coarse fabric, made of jute or hemp, used for bagging; also,
a finer variety of similar material, used for curtains, etc. [Written
also burlaps.]

BURLER
Burl"er, n.

Defn: One who burls or dresses cloth.

BURLESQUE
Bur*lesque", a. Etym: [F. burlesque, fr. It. burlesco, fr. burla
jest, mockery, perh. for burrula, dim. of L. burrae trifles. See
Bur.]

Defn: Tending to excite laughter or contempt by extravagant images,
or by a contrast between the subject and the manner of treating it,
as when a trifling subject is treated with mock gravity; jocular;
ironical.
It is a dispute among the critics, whether burlesque poetry runs best
in heroic verse, like that of the Dispensary, or in doggerel, like
that of Hudibras. Addison.

BURLESQUE
Bur*lesque", n.

1. Ludicrous representation; exaggerated parody; grotesque satire.
Burlesque is therefore of two kinds; the first represents mean
persons in the accouterments of heroes, the other describes great
persons acting and speaking like the basest among the people.
Addison.

2. An ironical or satirical composition intended to excite laughter,
or to ridicule anything.
The dull burlesque appeared with impudence, And pleased by novelty in
spite of sense. Dryden.

3. A ludicrous imitation; a caricature; a travesty; a gross
perversion.
Who is it that admires, and from the heart is attached to, national
representative assemblies, but must turn with horror and disgust from
such a profane burlesque and abominable perversion of that sacred
institute Burke.

Syn.
 -- Mockery; farce; travesty; mimicry.

BURLESQUE
Bur*lesque", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Burlesqued; p. pr. & vb. n.
Burlesquing.]

Defn: To ridicule, or to make ludicrous by grotesque representation
in action or in language.
They burlesqued the prophet Jeremiah's words, and turned the
expression he used into ridicule. Stillingfleet.

BURLESQUE
Bur*lesque", v. i.

Defn: To employ burlesque.

BURLESQUER
Bur*les"quer, n.

Defn: One who burlesques.

BURLETTA
Bur*let"ta, n. Etym: [It., dim. of burla mockery. See Burlesque, a.]
(Mus.)

Defn: A comic operetta; a music farce. Byron.

BURLINESS
Bur"li*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being burly.

BURLY
Bur"ly, a. Etym: [OE. burlich strong, excellent; perh. orig. fit for
a lady's bower, hence handsome, manly, stout. Cf. Bower.]

1. Having a large, strong, or gross body; stout; lusty; -- now used
chiefly of human beings, but formerly of animals, in the sense of
stately or beautiful, and of inanimate things that were huge and
bulky. "Burly sacks." Drayton.
In his latter days, with overliberal diet, [he was] somewhat
corpulent and burly. Sir T. More.
Burly and big, and studious of his ease. Cowper.

2. Coarse and rough; boisterous.
It was the orator's own burly way of nonsense. Cowley.

BURMAN
Bur"man, n.; pl. Burmans (. Etym: ["The softened modern M'yan-ma,
M'yan-ma [native name] is the source of the European corruption
Burma." Balfour.], (Ethnol.)

Defn: A member of the Burman family, one of the four great families
Burmah; also, sometimes, any inhabitant of Burmah; a Burmese.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Burmans or to Burmah.

BUR MARIGOLD
Bur" mar"i*gold.

Defn: See Beggar's ticks.

BURMESE
Bur`mese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Burmah, or its inhabitants.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or the natives of Burmah. Also (sing.), the language
of the Burmans.

BURN
Burn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Burned (Burnt (p. pr. & vb. n. Burning.]
Etym: [OE. bernen, brennen, v.t., early confused with beornen,
birnen, v.i., AS. bærnan, bernan, v.t., birnan, v.i.; akin to OS.
brinnan, OFries. barna, berna, OHG. brinnan, brennan, G. brennen, OD.
bernen, D. branden, Dan. brænde, Sw. bränna, brinna, Icel. brenna,
Goth. brinnan, brannjan (in comp.), and possibly to E. fervent.]

1. To consume with fire; to reduce to ashes by the action of heat or
fire; -- frequently intensified by up: as, to burn up wood. "We'll
burn his body in the holy place." Shak.

2. To injure by fire or heat; to change destructively some property
or properties of, by undue exposure to fire or heat; to scorch; to
scald; to blister; to singe; to char; to sear; as, to burn steel in
forging; to burn one's face in the sun; the sun burns the grass.

3. To perfect or improve by fire or heat; to submit to the action of
fire or heat for some economic purpose; to destroy or change some
property or properties of, by exposure to fire or heat in due degree
for obtaining a desired residuum, product, or effect; to bake; as, to
burn clay in making bricks or pottery; to burn wood so as to produce
charcoal; to burn limestone for the lime.

4. To make or produce, as an effect or result, by the application of
fire or heat; as, to burn a hole; to burn charcoal; to burn letters
into a block.

5. To consume, injure, or change the condition of, as if by action of
fire or heat; to affect as fire or heat does; as, to burn the mouth
with pepper.
This tyrant fever burns me up. Shak.
This dry sorrow burns up all my tears. Dryden.
When the cold north wind bloweth, . . . it devoureth the mountains,
and burneth the wilderness, and consumeth the Ecclus. xliii. 20, 21.

6. (Surg.)

Defn: To apply a cautery to; to cauterize.

7. (Chem.)

Defn: To cause to combine with oxygen or other active agent, with
evolution of heat; to consume; to oxidize; as, a man burns a certain
amount of carbon at each respiration; to burn iron in oxygen. To
burn, To burn together, as two surfaces of metal (Engin.), to fuse
and unite them by pouring over them a quantity of the same metal in a
liquid state.
 -- To burn a bowl (Game of Bowls), to displace it accidentally, the
bowl so displaced being said to be burned.
 -- To burn daylight, to light candles before it is dark; to waste
time; to perform superfluous actions. Shak.
 -- To burn one's fingers, to get one's self into unexpected trouble,
as by interfering the concerns of others, speculation, etc.
 -- To burn out, to destroy or obliterate by burning. "Must you with
hot irons burn out mine eyes" Shak.
 -- To be burned out, to suffer loss by fire, as the burning of one's
house, store, or shop, with the contents.
 -- To burn up, To burn down, to burn entirely.

BURN
Burn, v. i.

1. To be of fire; to flame. "The mount burned with fire." Deut. ix.
15.

2. To suffer from, or be scorched by, an excess of heat.
Your meat doth burn, quoth I. Shak.

3. To have a condition, quality, appearance, sensation, or emotion,
as if on fire or excessively heated; to act or rage with destructive
violence; to be in a state of lively emotion or strong desire; as,
the face burns; to burn with fever.
Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way
Luke xxiv. 32.
The barge she sat in, like a burnished throne, Burned on the water.
Shak.
Burning with high hope. Byron.
The groan still deepens, and the combat burns. Pope.
The parching air Burns frore, and cold performs the effect of fire.
Milton.

4. (Chem.)

Defn: To combine energetically, with evolution of heat; as, copper
burns in chlorine.

5. In certain games, to approach near to a concealed object which is
sought. [Colloq.] To burn out, to burn till the fuel is exhausted.
 -- To burn up, To burn down, to be entirely consumed.

BURN
Burn, n.

1. A hurt, injury, or effect caused by fire or excessive or intense
heat.

2. The operation or result of burning or baking, as in brickmaking;
as, they have a good burn.

3. A disease in vegetables. See Brand, n., 6.

BURN
Burn, n. Etym: [See 1st Bourn.]

Defn: A small stream. [Scot.]

BURNABLE
Burn"a*ble, a.

Defn: Combustible. Cotgrave.

BURNED
Burned, p. p. & a.

Defn: See Burnt.

BURNED
Burned, p. p.

Defn: Burnished. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BURNER
Burn"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, burns or sets fire to anything.

2. The part of a lamp, gas fixture, etc., where the flame is
produced. Bunsen's burner (Chem.), a kind of burner, invented by
Professor Bunsen of Heidelberg, consisting of a straight tube, four
or five inches in length, having small holes for the entrance of air
at the bottom. Illuminating gas being also admitted at the bottom, a
mixture of gas and air is formed which burns at the top with a feebly
luminous but intensely hot flame.
 -- Argand burner, Rose burner, etc. See under Argand, Rose, etc.

BURNET
Bur"net, n. Etym: [OE. burnet burnet; also, brownish (the plant perh.
being named from its color), fr. F. brunet, dim. of brun brown; cf.
OF. brunete a sort of flower. See Brunette.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of perennial herbs (Poterium); especially,
P.Sanguisorba, the common, or garden, burnet. Burnet moth (Zoöl.), in
England, a handsome moth (Zygæna filipendula), with crimson spots on
the wings.
 -- Burnet saxifrage. (Bot.) See Saxifrage.
 -- Canadian burnet, a marsh plant (Poterium Canadensis).
 -- Great burnet, Wild burnet, Poterium (or Sanguisorba) oficinalis.

BURNETTIZE
Bur"nett*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Burnettized (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Burnettizing.] (Manuf.)

Defn: To subject (wood, fabrics, etc.) to a process of saturation in
a solution of chloride of zinc, to prevent decay; -- a process
invented by Sir William Burnett.

BURNIE
Burn"ie, n. Etym: [See 4th Burn.]

Defn: A small brook. [Scot.] Burns.

BURNIEBEE
Bur"nie*bee`, n.

Defn: The ladybird. [Prov. Eng.]

BURNING
Burn"ing, a.

1. That burns; being on fire; excessively hot; fiery.

2. Consuming; intense; inflaming; exciting; vehement; powerful; as,
burning zeal.
Like a young hound upon a burning scent. Dryden.
Burning bush (Bot.), an ornamental shrub (Euonymus atropurpureus),
bearing a crimson berry.

BURNING
Burn"ing, n.

Defn: The act of consuming by fire or heat, or of subjecting to the
effect of fire or heat; the state of being on fire or excessively
heated. Burning fluid, any volatile illuminating oil, as the lighter
petroleums (naphtha, benzine), or oil of turpentine (camphine), but
esp. a mixture of the latter with alcohol.
 -- Burning glass, a conxex lens of considerable size, used for
producing an intense heat by converging the sun's rays to a focus.
 -- Burning house (Metal.), the furnace in which tin ores are
calcined, to sublime the sulphur and arsenic from the pyrites. Weale.
 -- Burning mirror, a concave mirror, or a combination of plane
mirrors, used for the same purpose as a burning glass.

Syn.
 -- Combustion; fire; conflagration; flame; blaze.

BURNISH
Bur"nish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Burnished; p. pr. & vb. n. Burnishing.]
Etym: [OE. burnischen, burnissen, burnen, OF. burnir, brunir, to make
brown, polish, F. brunir, fr. F. brun brown, fr. OHG. br; cf. MHG.
briunen to make brown, polish. See Brown, a.]

Defn: To cause to shine; to make smooth and bright; to polish;
specifically, to polish by rubbing with something hard and smooth;
as, to burnish brass or paper.
The frame of burnished steel, that east a glare From far, and seemed
to thaw the freezing air. Dryden.
Now the village windows blaze, Burnished by the setting sun.
Cunningham.
Burnishing machine, a machine for smoothing and polishing by
compression, as in making paper collars.

BURNISH
Bur"nish, v. i.

Defn: To shine forth; to brighten; to become smooth and glossy, as
from swelling or filling out; hence, to grow large.
A slender poet must have time to grow, And spread and burnish as his
brothers do. Dryden.
My thoughts began to burnish, sprout, and swell. Herbert.

BURNISH
Bur"nish, n.

Defn: The effect of burnishing; gloss; brightness; luster. Crashaw.

BURNISHER
Bur"nish*er, n.

1. One who burnishes.

2. A tool with a hard, smooth, rounded end or surface, as of steel,
ivory, or agate, used in smoothing or polishing by rubbing. It has a
variety of forms adapted to special uses.

BURNOOSE; BURNOUS
Bur"noose, Bur"nous, n. Etym: [Ar. burnus a kind of high-crowned cap:
cf. F. bournous, burnous, Sp. al-bornoz, a sort of upper garment,
with a hood attached.]

1. A cloaklike garment and hood woven in one piece, worn by Arabs.

2. A combination cloak and hood worn by women. [Variously written
bournous, bernouse, bornous, etc.]

BURNSTICKLE
Burn"stic`kle, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus).

BURNT
Burnt, p. p. & a.

Defn: Consumed with, or as with, fire; scorched or dried, as with
fire or heat; baked or hardened in the fire or the sun. Burnt ear, a
black, powdery fungus which destroys grain. See Smut.
 -- Burnt offering, something offered and burnt on an altar, as an
atonement for sin; a sacrifice. The offerings of the Jews were a
clean animal, as an ox, a calf, a goat, or a sheep; or some vegetable
substance, as bread, or ears of wheat or barley. Called also burnt
sacrifice. [2 Sam. xxiv. 22.]

BURR
Burr, n. Etym: [See Bur.] (Bot.)

1. A prickly seed vessel. See Bur, 1.

2. The thin edge or ridge left by a tool in cutting or shaping metal,
as in turning, engraving, pressing, etc.; also, the rough neck left
on a bullet in casting.
The graver, in plowing furrows in the surface of the copper, raises
corresponding ridges or burrs. Tomlinson.

3. A thin flat piece of metal, formed from a sheet by punching; a
small washer put on the end of a rivet before it is swaged down.

4. A broad iron ring on a tilting lance just below the gripe, to
prevent the hand from slipping.

5. The lobe or lap of the ear.

6. Etym: [Probably of imitative origin.]

Defn: A guttural pronounciation of the letter r, produced by trilling
the extremity of the soft palate against the back part of the tongue;
rotacism; -- often called the Newcastle, Northumberland, or
Tweedside, burr.

7. The knot at the bottom of an antler. See Bur, n., 8.

BURR
Burr, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Burred; p. pr. & vb. n. Burring.]

Defn: To speak with burr; to make a hoarse or guttural murmur. Mrs.
Browning.

BURREL
Bur"rel, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. burel reddish (cf. Borel, n.), or F.
beurré butter pear, fr. beurre butter. Cf. Butter.]

Defn: A sort of pear, called also the red butter pear, from its
smooth, delicious, soft pulp.

BURREL
Bur"rel, n.

Defn: Same as Borrel.

BURREL FLY
Bur"rel fly`. Etym: [From its reddish color. See 1st Burrel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The botfly or gadfly of cattle (Hypoderma bovis). See Gadfly.

BURREL SHOT
Bur"rel shot`. Etym: [Either from annoying the enemy like a burrel
fly, or, less probably, fr. F. bourreler to sting, torture.] (Gun.)

Defn: A mixture of shot, nails, stones, pieces of old iron, etc.,
fired from a cannon at short range, in an emergency. [R.]

BURRING MACHINE
Burr"ing ma*chine".

Defn: A machine for cleansing wool of burs, seeds, and other
substances.

BURR MILLSTONE
Burr" mill"stone`.

Defn: See Buhrstone.

BURRO
Bur"ro, n. Etym: [Sp., an ass.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A donkey. [Southern U.S.]

BURROCK
Bur"rock, n. Etym: [Perh. from AS. burg, burh, hill + -ock.]

Defn: A small weir or dam in a river to direct the stream to gaps
where fish traps are placed. Knight.

BURROW
Bur"row, n. Etym: [See 1st Borough.]

1. An incorporated town. See 1st Borough.

2. A shelter; esp. a hole in the ground made by certain animals, as
rabbits, for shelter and habitation.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A heap or heaps of rubbish or refuse.

4. A mound. See 3d Barrow, and Camp, n., 5.

BURROW
Bur"row, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Burrowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Burrowing.]

1. To excavate a hole to lodge in, as in the earth; to lodge in a
hole excavated in the earth, as conies or rabbits.

2. To lodge, or take refuge, in any deep or concealed place; to hide.
Sir, this vermin of court reporters, when they are forced into day
upon one point, are sure to burrow in another. Burke.
Burrowing owl (Zoöl.), a small owl of the western part of North
America (Speotyto cunicularia), which lives in holes, often in
company with the prairie dog.

BURROWER
Bur"row*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, burrows; an animal that makes a hole
under ground and lives in it.

BURRSTONE
Burr"stone`, n.

Defn: See Buhrstone.

BURRY
Burr"y, a.

Defn: Abounding in burs, or containing burs; resembling burs; as,
burry wool.

BURSA
Bur"sa, n.; pl. Bursæ (. Etym: [L. See Burse.] (Anat.)

Defn: Any sac or saclike cavity; especially, one of the synovial
sacs, or small spaces, often lined with synovial membrane, interposed
between tendons and bony prominences.

BURSAL
Bur"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a bursa or to bursæ.

BURSAR
Bur"sar, n. Etym: [LL. bursarius, fr. bursa purse. See Burse, and cf.
Purser.]

1. A treasurer, or cash keeper; a purser; as, the bursar of a
college, or of a monastery.

2. A student to whom a stipend or bursary is paid for his complete or
partial support.

BURSARSHIP
Bur"sar*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a bursar.

BURSARY
Bur"sa*ry, n.; pl. -ries. Etym: [LL. bursaria. See Bursar.]

1. The treasury of a college or monastery.

2. A scholarship or charitable foundation in a university, as in
scotland; a sum given to enable a student to pursue his studies. "No
woman of rank or fortune but would have a bursary in her gift."
Southey.

BURSCH
Bursch, n.; pl. Burschen. Etym: [G., ultimately fr. LL. bursa. See
Burse.]

Defn: A youth; especially, a student in a german university.

BURSCHENSCHAFT
Bur"schen*schaft`, n.; pl. -schaften (#). [G.]

Defn: In Germany, any of various associations of university students
formed (the original one at Jena in 1815) to support liberal ideas,
or the organization formed by the affiliation of the local bodies.
The organization was suppressed by the government in 1819, but was
secretly revived, and is now openly maintained as a social
organization, the restrictive laws having been repealed prior to
1849. -- Bur"schen*schaft`ler (#), -schaf`ter (#), n.

BURSE
Burse, n. Etym: [LL. bursa, or F. bourse. See Bourse, and cf. Bursch,
Purse.]

1. A purse; also, a vesicle; a pod; a hull. [Obs.] Holland.

2. A fund or foundation for the maintenance of needy scholars in
their studies; also, the sum given to the beneficiaries. [Scot.]

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: An ornamental case of hold the corporal when not in use.
Shipley.

4. An exchange, for merchants and bankers, in the cities of
continental Europe. Same as Bourse.

5. A kind of bazaar. [Obs.]
She says she went to the burse for patterns. Old Play.

BURSICULATE
Bur*sic"u*late, a. Etym: [See Burse.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bursiform.

BURSIFORM
Bur"si*form, a. Etym: [LL. bursa purse + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a purse.

BURSITIS
Bur*si"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. E. bursa + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of a bursa.

BURST
Burst, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Burst; p. pr. & vb. n. Bursting. The past
participle bursten is obsolete.] Etym: [OE. bersten, bresten, AS.
berstan (pers. sing. berste, imp. sing. bærst, imp. pl. burston, p.p.
borsten); akin to D. bersten, G. bersten, OHG. brestan, OS. brestan,
Icel. bresta, Sw. brista, Dan. briste. Cf. Brast, Break.]

1. To fly apart or in pieces; of break open; to yield to force or
pressure, especially to a sudden and violent exertion of force, or to
pressure from within; to explode; as, the boiler had burst; the buds
will burst in spring.
From the egg that soon Bursting with kindly rupture, forth disclosed
Their callow young. Milton.

Note: Often used figuratively, as of the heart, in reference to a
surcharge of passion, grief, desire, etc.
No, no, my heart will burst, an if I speak: And I will speak, that so
my heart may burst. Shak.

2. To exert force or pressure by which something is made suddenly to
give way; to break through obstacles or limitations; hence, to appear
suddenly and unexpecedly or unaccountably, or to depart in such
manner; -- usually with some qualifying adverb or preposition, as
forth, out, away, into, upon, through, etc.
Tears, such as angels weep, burst forth. Milton.
And now you burst (ah cruel!) from my arms. Pope.
A resolved villain Whose bowels suddenly burst out. Shak.
We were the first that ever burst Into that silent sea. Coleridge.
To burst upon him like an earthquake. Goldsmith.

BURST
Burst, v. t.

1. To break or rend by violence, as by an overcharge or by strain or
pressure, esp. from within; to force open suddenly; as, to burst a
cannon; to burst a blood vessel; to burst open the doors.
My breast I'll burst with straining of my courage. Shak.

2. To break. [Obs.]
You will not pay for the glasses you have burst Shak.
He burst his lance against the sand below. Fairfax (Tasso).

3. To produce as an effect of bursting; as, to burst a hole through
the wall. Bursting charge. See under Charge.

BURST
Burst, n.

1. A sudden breaking forth; a violent rending; an explosion; as, a
burst of thunder; a burst of applause; a burst of passion; a burst of
inspiration.
Bursts of fox-hunting melody. W. Irving.

2. Any brief, violent evertion or effort; a spurt; as, a burst of
speed.

3. A sudden opening, as of landscape; a stretch; an expanse. [R.] "A
fine burst of country." Jane Austen.

4. A rupture of hernia; a breach.

BURSTEN
Burst"en,

Defn: p. p. of Burst, v. i. [Obs.]

BURSTER
Burst"er, n.

Defn: One that bursts.

BURSTWORT
Burst"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Herniaria glabra) supposed to be valuable for the cure
of hernia or rupture.

BURT
Burt, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Birt. [Prov. Eng.]

BURTHEN
Bur"then, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Burden. [Archaic]

BURTON
Bur"ton, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. & Prov. E. bort to press or indent
anything.] (Naut.)

Defn: A peculiar tackle, formed of two or more blocks, or pulleys,
the weight being suspended of a hook block in the bight of the
running part.

BURY
Bur"y, n. Etym: [See 1st Borough.]

1. A borough; a manor; as, the Bury of St. Edmond's; --

Note: used as a termination of names of places; as, Canterbury,
Shrewsbury.

2. A manor house; a castle. [Prov. Eng.]
To this very day, the chief house of a manor, or the lord's seat, is
called bury, in some parts of England. Miege.

BURY
Bur"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Buried; p. pr. & vb. n. Burying.] Etym:
[OE. burien, birien, berien, AS. byrgan; akin to beorgan to protect,
OHG. bergan, G. bergen, Icel. bjarga, Sw. berga, Dan. bierge, Goth.
baírgan. sq. root95. Cf. Burrow.]

1. To cover out of sight, either by heaping something over, or by
placing within something, as earth, etc.; to conceal by covering; to
hide; as, to bury coals in ashes; to bury the face in the hands.
And all their confidence Under the weight of mountains buried deep.
Milton.

2. Specifically: To cover out of sight, as the body of a deceased
person, in a grave, a tomb, or the ocean; to deposit (a corpse) in
its resting place, with funeral ceremonies; to inter; to inhume.
Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Matt. viii. 21.
I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave. Shak.

3. To hide in oblivion; to put away finally; to abandon; as, to bury
strife.
Give me a bowl of wine In this I bury all unkindness, Cassius. Shak.
Burying beetle (Zoöl.), the general name of many species of beetles,
of the tribe Necrophaga; the sexton beetle; -- so called from their
habit of burying small dead animals by digging away the earth beneath
them. The larvæ feed upon decaying flesh, and are useful scavengers.
 -- To bury the hatchet, to lay aside the instruments of war, and
make peace; -- a phrase used in allusion to the custom observed by
the North American Indians, of burying a tomahawk when they conclude
a peace.

Syn.
 -- To intomb; inter; inhume; inurn; hide; cover; conceal; overwhelm;
repress.

BURYING GROUND; BURYING PLACE
Bur"y*ing ground`, Bur"y*ing place.

Defn: The ground or place for burying the dead; burial place.

BUS
Bus, n. Etym: [Abbreviated from omnibus.]

Defn: An omnibus. [Colloq.]

BUSBY
Bus"by, n.; pl. Busbies (. (Mil.)

Defn: A military headdress or cap, used in the British army. It is of
fur, with a bag, of the same color as the facings of the regiment,
hanging from the top over the right shoulder.

BUSCON
Bus"con, n. Etym: [Sp., a searcher, fr. buscar to search.]

Defn: One who searches for ores; a prospector. [U.S.]

BUSH
Bush, n. Etym: [OE. bosch, busch, buysch, bosk, busk; akin to D.
bosch, OHG. busc, G. busch, Icel. b, b, Dan. busk, Sw. buske, and
also to LL. boscus, buscus, Pr. bosc, It. bosco, Sp. & Pg. bosque, F.
bois, OF. bos. Whether the LL. or G. form ibox a case. Cf. Ambush,
Boscage, Bouquet, Box a case.]

1. A thicket, or place abounding in trees or shrubs; a wild forest.

Note: This was the original sense of the word, as in the Dutch bosch,
a wood, and was so used by Chaucer. In this sense it is extensively
used in the British colonies, especially at the Cape of Good Hope,
and also in Australia and Canada; as, to live or settle in the bush.

2. A shrub; esp., a shrub with branches rising from or near the root;
a thick shrub or a cluster of shrubs.
To bind a bush of thorns among sweet-smelling flowers. Gascoigne.

3. A shrub cut off, or a shrublike branch of a tree; as, bushes to
support pea vines.

4. A shrub or branch, properly, a branch of ivy (as sacred to
Bacchus), hung out at vintners' doors, or as a tavern sign; hence, a
tavern sign, and symbolically, the tavern itself.
If it be true that good wine needs no bush, 't is true that a good
play needs no epilogue. Shak.

5. (Hunting)

Defn: The tail, or brush, of a fox. To beat about the bush, to
approach anything in a round-about manner, instead of coming directly
to it; -- a metaphor taken from hunting.
 -- Bush bean (Bot.), a variety of bean which is low and requires no
support (Phaseolus vulgaris, variety nanus). See Bean, 1.
 -- Bush buck, or Bush goat (Zoöl.), a beautiful South African
antelope (Tragelaphus sylvaticus); -- so called because found mainly
in wooden localities. The name is also applied to other species.
 -- Bush cat (Zoöl.), the serval. See Serval.
 -- Bush chat (Zoöl.), a bird of the genus Pratincola, of the Thrush
family.
 -- Bush dog. (Zoöl.) See Potto.
 -- Bush hammer. See Bushhammer in the Vocabulary.
 -- Bush harrow (Agric.) See under Harrow.
 -- Bush hog (Zoöl.), a South African wild hog (Potamochoerus
Africanus); -- called also bush pig, and water hog.
 -- Bush master (Zoöl.), a venomous snake (Lachesis mutus) of Guinea;
-- called also surucucu.
 -- Bush pea (Bot.), a variety of pea that needs to be bushed.
 -- Bush shrike (Zoöl.), a bird of the genus Thamnophilus, and allied
genera; -- called also batarg. Many species inhabit tropical America.
 -- Bush tit (Zoöl.), a small bird of the genus Psaltriparus, allied
to the titmouse. P. minimus inhabits California.

BUSH
Bush, v. i.

Defn: To branch thickly in the manner of a bush. "The bushing
alders." Pope.

BUSH
Bush, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bushed (p. pr. & vb.n. Bushing.]

1. To set bushes for; to support with bushes; as, to bush peas.

2. To use a bush harrow on (land), for covering seeds sown; to harrow
with a bush; as, to bush a piece of land; to bush seeds into the
ground.

BUSH
Bush, n. Etym: [D. bus a box, akin to E. box; or F. boucher to plug.]

1. (Mech.)

Defn: A lining for a hole to make it smaller; a thimble or ring of
metal or wood inserted in a plate or other part of machinery to
receive the wear of a pivot or arbor. Knight.

Note: In the larger machines, such a piece is called a box,
particularly in the United States.

2. (Gun.)

Defn: A piece of copper, screwed into a gun, through which the
venthole is bored. Farrow.

BUSH
Bush, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with a bush, or lining; as, to bush a pivot hole.

BUSHBOY
Bush"boy, n.

Defn: See Bushman.

BUSHEL
Bush"el, n. Etym: [OE. buschel, boischel, OF. boissel, bussel,
boistel, F. boisseau, LL. bustellus; dim. of bustia, buxida (OF.
boiste), fr. pyxida, acc. of L. pyxis box, Gr. Box.]

1. A dry measure, containing four pecks, eight gallons, or thirty-two
quarts.

Note: The Winchester bushel, formerly used in England, contained
2150.42 cubic inches, being the volume of a cylinder 18

2. A vessel of the capacity of a bushel, used in measuring; a bushel
measure.
Is a candle brought to be put under a bushel, or under a bed, and not
to be set on a candlestick Mark iv. 21.

3. A quantity that fills a bushel measure; as, a heap containing ten
bushels of apples.

Note: In the United States a large number of articles, bought and
sold by the bushel, are measured by weighing, the number of pounds
that make a bushel being determined by State law or by local custom.
For some articles, as apples, potatoes, etc., heaped measure is
required in measuring a bushel.

4. A large indefinite quantity. [Colloq.]
The worthies of antiquity bought the rarest pictures with bushels of
gold, without counting the weight or the number of the pieces.
Dryden.

5. The iron lining in the nave of a wheel. [Eng.] In the United
States it is called a box. See 4th Bush.

BUSHELAGE
Bush"el*age, n.

Defn: A duty payable on commodities by the bushel. [Eng.]

BUSHELMAN
Bush"el*man, n.

Defn: A tailor's assistant for repairing garments; -- called also
busheler. [Local, U.S.]

BUSHET
Bush"et, n. Etym: [See Bosket.]

Defn: A small bush.

BUSHFIGHTER
Bush"fight`er, n.

Defn: One accustomed to bushfighting. Parkman.

BUSHFIGHTING
Bush"fight`ing, n.

Defn: Fighting in the bush, or from behind bushes, trees, or
thickets.

BUSHHAMMER
Bush"ham`mer, n.

Defn: A hammer with a head formed of a bundle of square bars, with
pyramidal points, arranged in rows, or a solid head with a face cut
into a number of rows of such points; -- used for dressing stone.

BUSHHAMMER
Bush"ham`mer, v. t.

Defn: To dress with bushhammer; as, to bushhammer a block of granite.

BUSHIDO
Bu"shi`do` (boo"she`do`), n. [Jap. bu military + shi knight + do way,
doctrine, principle.]

Defn: The unwritten code of moral principles regulating the actions
of the Japanese knighthood, or Samurai; the chivalry of Japan.

Unformulated, Bushido was and still is the animating spirit, the
motor force of our country.
Inazo Nitobé.

BUSHINESS
Bush"i*ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being bushy.

BUSHING
Bush"ing, n. Etym: [See 4th Bush.]

1. The operation of fitting bushes, or linings, into holes or places
where wear is to be received, or friction diminished, as pivot holes,
etc.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A bush or lining; -- sometimes called . See 4th Bush.

BUSHLESS
Bush"less, a.

Defn: Free from bushes; bare.
O'er the long backs of the bushless downs. Tennyson.

BUSHMAN
Bush"man, n.; pl. Bushmen. Etym: [Cf. D. boschman, boschjesman. See
1st Bush.]

1. A woodsman; a settler in the bush.

2. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of a race of South African nomads, living principally in
the deserts, and not classified as allied in race or language to any
other people.

BUSHMENT
Bush"ment, n. Etym: [OE. busshement ambush, fr. bush.]

1. A thicket; a cluster of bushes. [Obs.] Raleigh.

2. An ambuscade. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

BUSHRANGER
Bush"ran`ger, n.

Defn: One who roams, or hides, among the bushes; especially, in
Australia, an escaped criminal living in the bush.

BUSHWHACKER
Bush"whack`er, n.

1. One accustomed to beat about, or travel through, bushes. [U.S.]
They were gallant bushwhackers, and hunters of raccoons by moonlight.
W. Irving.

2. A guerrilla; a marauding assassin; one who pretends to be a
peaceful citizen, but secretly harasses a hostile force or its
sympathizers. [U.S.] Farrow.

BUSHWHACKING
Bush"whack`ing, n.

1. Traveling, or working a way, through bushes; pulling by the
bushes, as in hauling a boat along the bushy margin of a stream.
[U.S.] T. Flint.

2. The crimes or warfare of bushwhackers. [U.S.]

BUSHY
Bush"y, a. Etym: [From 1st Bush.]

1. Thick and spreading, like a bush. "Bushy eyebrows." Irving.

2. Full of bushes; overgrowing with shrubs.
Dingle, or bushy dell, of this wild wood. Milton.

BUSILY
Bus"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a busy manner.

BUSINESS
Busi"ness, n.; pl. Businesses. Etym: [From Busy.]

1. That which busies one, or that which engages the time, attention,
or labor of any one, as his principal concern or interest, whether
for a longer or shorter time; constant employment; regular
occupation; as, the business of life; business before pleasure.
Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business Luke ii. 49.

2. Any particular occupation or employment engaged in for livelihood
or gain, as agriculture, trade, art, or a profession. "The business
of instruction." Prescott.

3. Financial dealings; buying and selling; traffic in general;
mercantile transactions.
It seldom happens that men of a studious turn acquire any degree of
reputation for their knowledge of business. Bp. Popteus.

4. That which one has to do or should do; special service, duty, or
mission.
The daughter of the King of France, On serious business, craving
quick despatch, Importunes personal conference. Shak.
What business has the tortoise among the clouds L'Estrange.

5. Affair; concern; matter; -- used in an indefinite sense, and
modified by the connected words.
It was a gentle business, and becoming The action of good women.
Shak.
Bestow Your needful counsel to our business. Shak.

6. (Drama)

Defn: The position, distribution, and order of persons and properties
on the stage of a theater, as determined by the stage manager in
rehearsal.

7. Care; anxiety; diligence. [Obs.] Chaucer. To do one's business, to
ruin one. [Colloq.] Wycherley.
 -- To make (a thing) one's business, to occupy one's self with a
thing as a special charge or duty. [Colloq.] -- To mean business, to
be earnest. [Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- Affairs; concern; transaction; matter; engagement; employment;
calling; occupation; trade; profession; vocation; office; duty.

BUSINESSLIKE
Busi"ness*like`, a.

Defn: In the manner of one transacting business wisely and by right
methods.

BUSK
Busk, n. Etym: [F. busc, perh. fr. the hypothetical older form of E.
bois wood, because the first busks were made of wood. See Bush, and
cf. OF. busche, F. bûche, a piece or log of wood, fr. the same root.]

Defn: A thin, elastic strip of metal, whalebone, wood, or other
material, worn in the front of a corset.
Her long slit sleeves, stiff busk, puff verdingall, Is all that makes
her thus angelical. Marston.

BUSK
Busk, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Busked.] Etym: [OE. busken, fr. Icel.
b to make one's self ready, rexlexive of b to prepare, dwell. Cf. 8th
Bound.]

1. To prepare; to make ready; to array; to dress. [Scot. & Old Eng.]
Busk you, busk you, my bonny, bonny bride. Hamilton.

2. To go; to direct one's course. [Obs.]
Ye might have busked you to Huntly banks. Skelton.

BUSKED
Busked, a.

Defn: Wearing a busk. Pollok.

BUSKET
Bus"ket, n. Etym: [See Bosket, Bouquet.]

1. A small bush; also, a sprig or bouquet. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. A part of a garden devoted to shrubs. [R.]

BUSKIN
Bus"kin, n. Etym: [Prob. from OF. brossequin, or D. broosken. See
Brodekin.]

1. A strong, protecting covering for the foot, coming some distance
up the leg.
The hunted red deer's undressed hide Their hairy buskins well
supplied. Sir W. Scott.

2. A similar covering for the foot and leg, made with very thick
soles, to give an appearance of elevation to the stature; -- worn by
tragic actors in ancient Greece and Rome. Used as a symbol of
tragedy, or the tragic drama, as distinguished from comedy.
Great Fletcher never treads in buskins here, No greater Jonson dares
in socks appear. Dryden.

BUSKINED
Bus"kined, a.

1. Wearing buskins.
Her buskined virgins traced the dewy lawn. Pope.

2. Trodden by buskins; pertaining to tragedy. "The buskined stage."
Milton.

BUSKY
Bus"ky, a.

Defn: See Bosky, and 1st Bush, n. Shak.

BUSS
Buss, n. Etym: [OE. basse, fr. L. basium; cf. G. bus (Luther), Prov.
G. busserl, dim. of bus kiss, bussen to kiss, Sw. puss kiss, pussa to
kiss, W. & Gael. bus lip, mouth.]

Defn: A kiss; a rude or playful kiss; a smack. Shak.

BUSS
Buss, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bussed; p. pr. & vb. n. Bussing.]

Defn: To kiss; esp. to kiss with a smack, or rudely. "Nor bussed the
milking maid." Tennyson.
Kissing and bussing differ both in this, We buss our wantons, but our
wives we kiss. Herrick.

BUSS
Buss, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. busse, Pr. bus, LL. bussa, busa, G. büse, D.
buis.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small strong vessel with two masts and two cabins; -- used in
the herring fishery.
The Dutch whalers and herring busses. Macaulay.

BUST
Bust, n. Etym: [F. buste, fr. It. busto; cf. LL. busta, bustula, box,
of the same origin as E. box a case; cf., for the change of meaning,
E. chest. See Bushel.]

1. A piece of sculpture representing the upper part of the human
figure, including the head, shoulders, and breast.
Ambition sighed: she found it vain to trust The faithless column, and
the crumbling bust. Pope.

2. The portion of the human figure included between the head and
waist, whether in statuary or in the person; the chest or thorax; the
upper part of the trunk of the body.

BUSTARD
Bus"tard, n. Etym: [OF. & Prov. F. bistarde, F. outarde, from L. avis
tarda, lit., slow bird. Plin. 10, 22; "proximæ iis sunt, quas
Hispania aves tardas appellat, Græcia (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of the genus Otis.

Note: The great or bearded bustard (Otis tarda) is the largest game
bird in Europe. It inhabits the temperate regions of Europe and Asia,
and was formerly common in Great Britain. The little bustard (O.
tetrax) inhabits eastern Europe and Morocco. Many other species are
known in Asia and Africa.

BUSTER
Bus"ter, n.

Defn: Something huge; a roistering blade; also, a spree. [Slang,
U.S.] Bartlett.

BUSTLE
Bus"tle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bustled (p. pr. & vb.n. Bustling ( Etym:
[Cf. OE. buskle, perh. fr. AS. bysig busy, bysg-ian to busy + the
verbal termination -le; or Icel. bustla to splash, bustle.]

Defn: To move noisily; to be rudely active; to move in a way to cause
agitation or disturbance; as, to bustle through a crowd.
And leave the world for me to bustle in. Shak.

BUSTLE
Bus"tle, n.

Defn: Great stir; agitation; tumult from stirring or excitement.
A strange bustle and disturbance in the world. South.

BUSTLE
Bus"tle, n.

Defn: A kind of pad or cushion worn on the back below the waist, by
women, to give fullness to the skirts; -- called also bishop, and
tournure.

BUSTLER
Bus"tler, n.

Defn: An active, stirring person.

BUSTLING
Bus"tling, a.

Defn: Agitated; noisy; tumultuous; characterized by confused
activity; as, a bustling crowd. "A bustling wharf." Hawthorne.

BUSTO
Bus"to, n.; pl. Bustoes (/plu. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A bust; a statue.
With some antick bustoes in the niches. Ashmole.

BUSY
Bus"y, a. Etym: [OE. busi, bisi, AS. bysig; akin to D. bezig, LG.
besig; cf. Skr. bh to be active, busy.]

1. Engaged in some business; hard at work (either habitually or only
for the time being); occupied with serious affairs; not idle nor at
leisure; as, a busy merchant.
Sir, my mistress sends you word THat she is busy, and she can not
come. Shak.

2. Constantly at work; diligent; active.
Busy hammers closing rivets up. Shak.
Religious motives . . . are so busy in the heart. Addison.

3. Crowded with business or activities; -- said of places and times;
as, a busy street.
To-morrow is a busy day. Shak.

4. Officious; meddling; foolish active.
On meddling monkey, or on busy ape. Shak.

5. Careful; anxious. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Diligent; industrious; assiduous; active; occupied; engaged.

BUSY
Bus"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Busied; p. pr. & vb. n. Busying.] Etym:
[AS. bysgian.]

Defn: To make or keep busy; to employ; to engage or keep engaged; to
occupy; as, to busy one's self with books.
Be it thy course to busy giddy minds With foreign quarrels. Shak.

BUSYBODY
Bus"y*bod`y, n.; pl. Busybodies.

Defn: One who officiously concerns himself with the affairs of
others; a meddling person.
And not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking things
which they ought not. 1 Tim. v. 13.

BUT
But, prep., adv. & conj. Etym: [OE. bute, buten, AS. b, without, on
the outside, except, besides; pref. be- + outward, without, fr. out.
Primarily, b, as well as , is an adverb. sq. root198. See By, Out;
cf. About.]

1. Except with; unless with; without. [Obs.]
So insolent that he could not go but either spurning equals or
trampling on his inferiors. Fuller.
Touch not the cat but a glove. Motto of the Mackintoshes.

2. Except; besides; save.
Who can it be, ye gods! but perjured Lycon E. Smith.

Note: In this sense, but is often used with other particles; as, but
for, without, had it not been for. "Uncreated but for love divine."
Young.

3. Excepting or excluding the fact that; save that; were it not that;
unless; -- elliptical, for but that.
And but my noble Moor is true of mind . . . it were enough to put him
to ill thinking. Shak.

4. Otherwise than that; that not; -- commonly, after a negative, with
that.
It cannot be but nature hath some director, of infinite power, to
guide her in all her ways. Hooker.
There is no question but the king of Spain will reform most of the
abuses. Addison.

5. Only; solely; merely.
Observe but how their own principles combat one another. Milton.
If they kill us, we shall but die. 2 Kings vii. 4.
A formidable man but to his friends. Dryden.

6. On the contrary; on the other hand; only; yet; still; however;
nevertheless; more; further; -- as connective of sentences or clauses
of a sentence, in a sense more or less exceptive or adversative; as,
the House of Representatives passed the bill, but the Senate
dissented; our wants are many, but quite of another kind.
Now abideth faith hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of
these is charity. 1 Cor. xiii. 13.
When pride cometh, then cometh shame; but with the lowly is wisdom.
Prov. xi. 2.
All but. See under All.
 -- But and if, but if; an attempt on the part of King James's
translators of the Bible to express the conjunctive and adversative
force of the Greek
But and if that servant say in his heart, My lord delayeth his
coming; . . . the lord of that servant will come in a day when he
looketh not for him. Luke xii. 45, 46.
But if, unless. [Obs.] Chaucer.
But this I read, that but if remedy Thou her afford, full shortly I
her dead shall see. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- But, However, Still. These conjunctions mark opposition in
passing from one thought or topic to another. But marks the
opposition with a medium degree of strength; as, this is not winter,
but it is almost as cold; he requested my assistance, but I shall not
aid him at present. However is weaker, and throws the opposition (as
it were) into the background; as, this is not winter; it is, however,
almost as cold; he required my assistance; at present, however, I
shall not afford him aid. The plan, however, is still under
consideration, and may yet be adopted. Still is stronger than but,
and marks the opposition more emphatically; as, your arguments are
weighty; still they do not convince me. See Except, However.

Note: "The chief error with but is to use it where and is enough; an
error springing from the tendency to use strong words without
sufficient occasio,." Bain.

BUT
But, n. Etym: [Cf. But, prep., adv. & conj.]

Defn: The outer apartment or kitchen of a two-roomed house; --
opposed to ben, the inner room. [Scot.]

BUT
But, n. Etym: [See 1st But.]

1. A limit; a boundary.

2. The end; esp. the larger or thicker end, or the blunt, in
distinction from the sharp, end. See 1st Butt. But end, the larger or
thicker end; as, the but end of a log; the but end of a musket. See
Butt, n.

BUT
But, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Butted; p. pr. & vb. n. Butting.]

Defn: See Butt, v., and Abut, v.

BUTANE
Bu"tane, n. Etym: [L. butyrum butter. See Butter.] (Chem.)

Defn: An inflammable gaseous hydrocarbon, C4H10, of the marsh gas, or
paraffin, series.

BUTCHER
Butch"er, n. Etym: [OE. bochere, bochier, OF. bochier, F. boucher,
orig., slaughterer of buck goats, fr. OF. boc, F. bouc, a buck goat;
of German or Celtic origin. See Buck the animal.]

1. One who slaughters animals, or dresses their flesh for market; one
whose occupation it is to kill animals for food.

2. A slaughterer; one who kills in large numbers, or with unusual
cruelty; one who causes needless loss of life, as in battle. "Butcher
of an innocent child." Shak. Butcher bird (Zoöl.), a species of
shrike of the genus Lanius.

Note: The Lanius excubitor is the common butcher bird of Europe. In
England, the bearded tit is sometimes called the lesser butcher bird.
The American species are L.borealis, or northernbutcher bird, and L.
Ludovicianus or loggerhead shrike. The name butcher birdis derived
from its habit of suspending its prey impaled upon thorns, after
killing it. Butcher's meat, such flesh of animals slaughtered for
food as is sold for that purpose by butchers, as beef, mutton, lamb,
and pork.

BUTCHER
Butch"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Butchered (; p. pr. & vb.n.
Butchering.]

1. To kill or slaughter (animals) for food, or for market; as, to
butcher hogs.

2. To murder, or kill, especially in an unusually bloody or barbarous
manner. Macaulay.
[Ithocles] was murdered, rather butchered. Ford.

BUTCHERING
Butch"er*ing, n.

1. The business of a butcher.

2. The act of slaughtering; the act of killing cruelly and
needlessly.
That dreadful butchering of one another. Addison.

BUTCHERLINESS
Butch"er*li*ness, n.

Defn: Butchery quality.

BUTCHERLY
Butch"er*ly, a.

Defn: Like a butcher; without compunction; savage; bloody; inhuman;
fell. "The victim of a butcherly murder." D. Webster.
What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly, This deadly quarrel daily
doth beget! Shak.

BUTCHER'S BROOM
Butch"er's broom`. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants (Ruscus); esp. R. aculeatus, which has large
red berries and leaflike branches. See Cladophyll.

BUTCHERY
Butch"er*y, n. Etym: [OE. bocherie shambles, fr. F. boucherie. See
Butcher, n.]

1. The business of a butcher. [Obs.]

2. Murder or manslaughter, esp. when committed with unusual
barbarity; great or cruel slaughter. Shak.
The perpetration of human butchery. Prescott.

3. A slaughterhouse; the shambles; a place where blood is shed.
[Obs.]
Like as an ox is hanged in the butchery. Fabyan.

Syn.
 -- Murder; slaughter; carnage. See Massacre.

BUTLER
But"ler, n. Etym: [OE. boteler, F. bouteillier a bottle-bearer, a
cupbearer, fr. LL. buticularius, fr. buticula bottle. See Bottle a
hollow vessel.]

Defn: An officer in a king's or a nobleman's household, whose
principal business it is to take charge of the liquors, plate, etc.;
the head servant in a large house.
The butler and the baker of the king of Egypt. Gen. xl. 5.
Your wine locked up, your butler strolled abroad. Pope.

BUTLERAGE
But"ler*age, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A duty of two shillings on every tun of wine imported into
England by merchant strangers; -- so called because paid to the
king's butler for the king. Blackstone.

BUTLERSHIP
But"ler*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a butler.

BUTMENT
But"ment, n. Etym: [Abbreviation of Abutment.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A buttress of an arch; the supporter, or that part which joins
it to the upright pier.

2. (Masonry)

Defn: The mass of stone or solid work at the end of a bridge, by
which the extreme arches are sustained, or by which the end of a
bridge without arches is supported. Butment cheek (Carp.), the part
of a mortised timber surrounding the mortise, and against which the
shoulders of the tenon bear. Knight.

BUTT; BUT
Butt, But, n. Etym: [F. but butt, aim (cf. butte knoll), or bout, OF.
bot, end, extremity, fr. boter, buter, to push, butt, strike, F.
bouter; of German origin; cf. OHG. bozan, akin to E. beat. See Beat,
v. t.]

1. A limit; a bound; a goal; the extreme bound; the end.
Here is my journey's end, here my butt And very sea mark of my utmost
sail. Shak.

Note: As applied to land, the word is nearly synonymous with mete,
and signifies properly the end line or boundary; the abuttal.

2. The thicker end of anything. See But.

3. A mark to be shot at; a target. Sir W. Scott.
The groom his fellow groom at butts defies, And bends his bow, and
levels with his eyes. Dryden.

4. A person at whom ridicule, jest, or contempt is directed; as, the
butt of the company.
I played a sentence or two at my butt, which I thought very smart.
Addison.

5. A push, thrust, or sudden blow, given by the head of an animal;
as, the butt of a ram.

6. A thrust in fencing.
To prove who gave the fairer butt, John shows the chalk on Robert's
coat. Prior.

7. A piece of land left unplowed at the end of a field.
The hay was growing upon headlands and butts in cornfields. Burrill.

8. (Mech.)
(a) A joint where the ends of two objects come squarely together
without scrafing or chamfering; -- also called butt joint.
(b) The end of a connecting rod or other like piece, to which the
boxing is attached by the strap, cotter, and gib.
(c) The portion of a half-coupling fastened to the end of a hose.

9. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: The joint where two planks in a strake meet.

10. (Carp.)

Defn: A kind of hinge used in hanging doors, etc.; -- so named
because fastened on the edge of the door, which butts against the
casing, instead of on its face, like the strap hinge; also called
butt hinge.

11. (Leather Trade)

Defn: The thickest and stoutest part of tanned oxhides, used for
soles of boots, harness, trunks.

12. The hut or shelter of the person who attends to the targets in
rifle practice. Butt chain (Saddlery), a short chain attached to the
end of a tug.
 -- Butt end. The thicker end of anything. See But end, under 2d But.
Amen; and make me die a good old man! That's the butt end of a
mother's blessing. Shak.
A butt's length, the ordinary distance from the place of shooting to
the butt, or mark.
 -- Butts and bounds (Conveyancing), abuttals and boundaries. In
lands of the ordinary rectangular shape, butts are the lines at the
ends (F. bouts), and bounds are those on the sides, or sidings, as
they were formerly termed. Burrill.
 -- Bead and butt. See under Bead.
 -- Butt and butt, joining end to end without overlapping, as planks.
 -- Butt weld (Mech.), a butt joint, made by welding together the
flat ends, or edges, of a piece of iron or steel, or of separate
pieces, without having them overlap. See Weld.
 -- Full butt, headfirst with full force. [Colloq.] "The corporal . .
. ran full butt at the lieutenant." Marryat.

BUTT
Butt, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Butted; p. pr. & vb. n. Butting.] Etym:
[OE. butten, OF. boter to push, F. bouter. See Butt an end, and cf.
Boutade.]

1. To join at the butt, end, or outward extremity; to terminate; to
be bounded; to abut. [Written also but.]
And Barnsdale there doth butt on Don's well-watered ground. Drayton.

2. To thrust the head forward; to strike by thrusting the head
forward, as an ox or a ram. [See Butt, n.]
A snow-white steer before thine altar led, Butts with his threatening
brows. Dryden.

BUTT
Butt, v. t.

Defn: To strike by thrusting the head against; to strike with the
head.
Two harmless lambs are butting one the other. Sir H. Wotton.

BUTT
Butt, n. Etym: [F. botte, boute, LL. butta. Cf. Bottle a hollow
vessel.]

Defn: A large cask or vessel for wine or beer. It contains two
hogsheads.

Note: A wine butt contains 126 wine gallons (= 105 imperial gallons,
nearly); a beer butt 108 ale gallons (= about 110 imperial gallons).

BUTT
Butt, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common English flounder.

BUTTE
Butte, n. Etym: [F. See Butt a bound.]

Defn: A detached low mountain, or high rising abruptly from the
general level of the surrounding plain; -- applied to peculiar
elevations in the Rocky Mountain region.
The creek . . . passes by two remarkable buttes of red conglomerate.
Ruxton.

BUTTER
But"ter, n. Etym: [OE. botere, butter, AS. butere, fr. L. butyrum,
Gr. Cow.]

1. An oily, unctuous substance obtained from cream or milk by
churning.

2. Any substance resembling butter in degree of consistence, or other
qualities, especially, in old chemistry, the chloridess, as butter of
antimony, sesquichloride of antimony; also, certain concrete fat oils
remaining nearly solid at ordinary temperatures, as butter of cacao,
vegetable butter, shea butter. Butter and eggs (Bot.), a name given
to several plants having flowers of two shades of yellow, as
Narcissus incomparabilis, and in the United States to the toadflax
(Linaria vulgaris).
 -- Butter boat, a small vessel for holding melted butter at table.
 -- Butter flower, the buttercup, a yellow flower.
 -- Butter print, a piece of carved wood used to mark pats of butter;
-- called also butter stamp. Locke.
 -- Butter tooth, either of the two middle incisors of the upper jaw.
 -- Butter tree (Bot.), a tree of the genus Bassia, the seeds of
which yield a substance closely resembling butter. The butter tree of
India is the B. butyracea; that of Africa is the Shea tree (B.
Parkii). See Shea tree.
 -- Butter trier, a tool used in sampling butter.
 -- Butter wife, a woman who makes or sells butter; -- called also
butter woman. [Obs. or Archaic]

BUTTER
But"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Buttered (p. pr. & vb. n. Buttering.]

1. To cover or spread with butter.
I know what's what. I know on which side My bread is buttered. Ford.

2. To increase, as stakes, at every throw or every game. [Cant]
Johnson.

BUTTER
Butt"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, butts.

BUTTERBALL
But"ter*ball`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The buffel duck.

BUTTERBIRD
But"ter*bird`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The rice bunting or bobolink; -- so called in the island of
Jamaica.

BUTTERBUMP
But"ter*bump`, n. Etym: [OE. buttur the bittern + 5th bump.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European bittern. Johnson.

BUTTERBUR
But"ter*bur`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A broad-leaved plant (Petasites vulgaris) of the Composite
family, said to have been used in England for wrapping up pats of
butter.

BUTTERCUP
But"ter*cup`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Ranunculus, or crowfoot, particularly R.
bulbosus, with bright yellow flowers; -- called also butterflower,
golden cup, and kingcup. It is the cuckoobud of Shakespeare.

BUTTER-FINGERED
But"ter-fin`gered, a.

Defn: Apt to let things fall, or to let them slip away; slippery;
careless.

BUTTERFISH
But"ter*fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name given to several different fishes, in allusion to their
slippery coating of mucus, as the Stromateus triacanthus of the
Atlantic coast, the Epinephelus punctatus of the southern coast, the
rock eel, and the kelpfish of New Zealand.

BUTTERFLY
But"ter*fly`, n.; pl. Butterflies. Etym: [Perh. from the color of a
yellow species. AS. buter-flege, buttor-fleóge; cf. G. butterfliege,
D. botervlieg. See Butter, and Fly.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A general name for the numerous species of diurnal Lepidoptera.

Note: [See Illust. under Aphrodite.] Asclepias butterfly. See under
Asclepias.
 -- Butterfly fish (Zoöl.), the ocellated blenny (Blennius ocellaris)
of Europe. See Blenny. The term is also applied to the flying
gurnard.
 -- Butterfly shell (Zoöl.), a shell of the genus Voluta.
 -- Butterfly valve (Mech.), a kind of double clack valve, consisting
of two semicircular clappers or wings hinged to a cross rib in the
pump bucket. When open it somewhat resembles a butterfly in shape.

BUTTERINE
But"ter*ine, n.

Defn: A substance prepared from animal fat with some other
ingredients intermixed, as an imitation of butter.
The manufacturers ship large quantities of oleomargarine to England,
Holland, and other countries, to be manufactured into butter, which
is sold as butterine or suine. Johnson's Cyc.

BUTTERIS
But"ter*is, n. Etym: [The same word as buttress, noun, in a different
application, F. bouter to push.] (Far.)

Defn: A steel cutting instrument, with a long bent shank set in a
handle which rests against the shoulder of the operator. It is
operated by a thrust movement, and used in paring the hoofs of
horses.

BUTTERMAN
But"ter*man`, n.; pl. Buttermen (.

Defn: A man who makes or sells butter.

BUTTERMILK
But"ter*milk`, n.

Defn: The milk that remains after the butter is separated from the
cream.

BUTTERNUT
But"ter*nut`, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An American tree (Juglans cinerea) of the Walnut family, and
its edible fruit; -- so called from the oil contained in the latter.
Sometimes called oil nut and white walnut.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The nut of the Caryocar butyrosum and C. nuciferum, of S.
America; -- called also Souari nut.

BUTTER-SCOTCH
But"ter-scotch`, n.

Defn: A kind of candy, mainly composed of sugar and butter. [Colloq.]
Dickens.

BUTTERWEED
But"ter*weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An annual composite plant of the Mississippi valley (Senecio
lobatus).

BUTTERWEIGHT
But"ter*weight`, n.

Defn: Over weight. Swift.

Note: Formerly it was a custom to give 18 ounces of butter for a
pound.

BUTTERWORT
But"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of low herbs (Pinguicula) having simple leaves which
secrete from their glandular upper surface a viscid fluid, to which
insects adhere, after which the margin infolds and the insects are
digested by the plant. The species are found mostly in the North
Temperate zone.

BUTTERY
But"ter*y, a.

Defn: Having the qualities, consistence, or appearance, of butter.

BUTTERY
But"ter*y, n.; pl. Buttplwies (. Etym: [OE. botery, botry; cf. LL.
botaria wine vessel; also OE. botelerie, fr. F. bouteillerie, fr.
boutellie bottle. Not derived from butter. See Bottle a hollow
vessel, Butt a cask.]

1. An apartment in a house where butter, milk and other provisions
are kept.
All that need a cool and fresh temper, as cellars, pantries, and
butteries, to the north. Sir H. Wotton.

2. A room in some English colleges where liquors, fruit, and
refreshments are kept for sale to the students.
And the major Oxford kept the buttery bar. E. Hall.

3. A cellar in which butts of wine are kept. Weale. Buttery hatch, a
half door between the buttery or kitchen and the hall, in old
mansions, over which provisions were passed. Wright.

BUTT HINGE
Butt" hinge`.

Defn: See 1st Butt, 10.

BUT-THORN
But"-thorn`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common European starfish (Asterias rubens).

BUTTING
But"ting, n.

Defn: An abuttal; a boundary.
Without buttings or boundings on any side. Bp. Beveridge.

BUTTING JOINT
But"ting joint`.

Defn: A joint between two pieces of timber or wood, at the end of one
or both, and either at right angles or oblique to the grain, as the
joints which the struts and braces form with the truss posts; --
sometimes called abutting joint.

BUTT JOINT
Butt" joint`.

Defn: A joint in which the edges or ends of the pieces united come
squarely together instead of overlapping. See 1st Butt, 8.

BUTTOCK
But"tock, n. Etym: [From Butt an end.]

1. The part at the back of the hip, which, in man, forms one of the
rounded protuberances on which he sits; the rump.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The convexity of a ship behind, under the stern. Mar. Dict.

BUTTON
But"ton, n. Etym: [OE. boton, botoun, F. bouton button, bud, prop.
something pushing out, fr. bouter to push. See Butt an end.]

1. A knob; a small ball; a small, roundish mass.

2. A catch, of various forms and materials, used to fasten together
the different parts of dress, by being attached to one part, and
passing through a slit, called a buttonhole, in the other; -- used
also for ornament.

3. A bud; a germ of a plant. Shak.

4. A piece of wood or metal, usually flat and elongated, turning on a
nail or screw, to fasten something, as a door.

5. A globule of metal remaining onan assay cupel or in a crucible,
after fusion. Button hook, a hook for catching a button and drawing
it through a buttonhole, as in buttoning boots and gloves.
 -- Button shell (Zoöl.), a small, univalve marine shell of the genus
Rotella.
 -- Button snakeroot. (Bot.) (a) The American composite genus
Liatris, having rounded buttonlike heads of flowers. (b) An American
umbelliferous plant with rigid, narrow leaves, and flowers in dense
heads.
 -- Button tree (Bot.), a genus of trees (Conocarpus), furnishing
durable timber, mostly natives of the West Indies.
 -- To hold by the button, to detain in conversation to weariness; to
bore; to buttonhole.

BUTTON
But"ton, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Buttoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Buttoning.]
Etym: [OE. botonen, OF. botoner, F. boutonner. See Button, n.]

1. To fasten with a button or buttons; to inclose or make secure with
buttons; -- often followed by up.
He was a tall, fat, long-bodied man, buttoned up to the throat in a
tight green coat. Dickens.

2. To dress or clothe. [Obs.] Shak.

BUTTON
But"ton, v. i.

Defn: To be fastened by a button or buttons; as, the coat will not
button.

BUTTONBALL
But"ton*ball`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Buttonwood.

BUTTONBUSH
But"ton*bush`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrub (Cephalanthus occidentalis) growing by the waterside; -
- so called from its globular head of flowers. See Capitulum.

BUTTONHOLE
But"ton*hole`, n.

Defn: The hole or loop in which a button is caught.

BUTTONHOLE
But"ton*hole`, v. t.

Defn: To hold at the button or buttonhole; to detain in conversation
to weariness; to bore; as, he buttonholed me a quarter of an hour.

BUTTONMOLD
But"ton*mold`, n.

Defn: A disk of bone, wood, or other material, which is made into a
button by covering it with cloth. [Written also buttonmould.] Fossil
buttonmolds, joints of encrinites. See Encrinite.

BUTTONS
But"tons, n.

Defn: A boy servant, or page, -- in allusion to the buttons on his
livry. [Colloq.] Dickens.

BUTTONWEED
But"ton*weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of several plants of the genera Spermacoce and Diodia,
of the Madder family.

BUTTONWOOD
But"ton*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The Platanus occidentalis, or American plane tree, a large
tree, producing rough balls, from which it is named; -- called also
buttonball tree, and, in some parts of the United States, sycamore.
The California buttonwood is P. racemosa.

BUTTONY
But"ton*y, a.

Defn: Ornamented with a large number of buttons. "The buttony boy."
Thackeray. "My coat so blue and buttony." W. S. Gilbert.

BUTTRESS
But"tress, n. Etym: [OE. butrasse, boterace, fr. F. bouter to push;
cf. OF. bouteret (nom. sing. and acc. pl. bouterez) buttress. See
Butt an end, and cf. Butteris.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A projecting mass of masonry, used for resisting the thrust of
an arch, or for ornament and symmetry.

Note: When an external projection is used merely to stiffen a wall,
it is a pier.

2. Anything which supports or strengthens. "The ground pillar and
buttress of the good old cause of nonconformity." South. Flying
buttress. See Flying buttress.

BUTTRESS
But"tress, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Buttressed (p. pr. & vb. n.
Buttressing.]

Defn: To support with a buttress; to prop; to brace firmly.
To set it upright again, and to prop and buttress it up for duration.
Burke.

BUTT SHAFT
Butt" shaft`

Defn: An arrow without a barb, for shooting at butts; an arrow. [Also
but shaft.] Shak.

BUTT WELD
Butt" weld`.

Defn: See Butt weld, under Butt.

BUTTWELD
Butt"weld`, v. t.

Defn: To unite by a butt weld.

BUTTY
But"ty, n. (Mining)

Defn: One who mines by contract, at so much per ton of coal or ore.

BUTYL
Bu"tyl, n. Etym: [L. butyrum butter + -yl. See Butter.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical, regarded as butane, less one atom of
hydrogen.

BUTYLAMINE
Bu`tyl*am"ine, n.  [Butyric + -yl + amine.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: A colorless liquid base, C4H9NH2, of which there are four
isomeric varieties.

BUTYLENE
Bu"ty*lene, n. Etym: [From Butyl.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of three metameric hydrocarbons, C4H8, of the ethylene
series. They are gaseous or easily liquefiable.

BUTYRACEOUS
Bu`ty*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [L. butyrum butter. See Butter.]

Defn: Having the qualities of butter; resembling butter.

BUTYRATE
Bu"ty*rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of butyric acid.

BUTYRIC
Bu*tyr"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, butter. Butyric acid,
C3H7.CO2H, an acid found in butter; an oily, limpid fluid, having the
smell of rancid butter, and an acrid taste, with a sweetish
aftertaste, like that of ether. There are two metameric butyric
acids, called in distinction the normal- and iso-butyric acid. The
normal butyric acid is the one common in rancid butter.

BUTYRIN
Bu"ty*rin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A butyrate of glycerin; a fat contained in small quantity in
milk, which helps to give to butter its peculiar flavor.

BUTYROMETER
Bu`ty*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. butyrum butter + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for determining the amount of fatty matter or
butter contained in a sample of milk.

BUTYRONE
Bu"ty*rone, n. Etym: [Butyric + -one.] (Chem.)

Defn: A liquid ketone obtained by heating calcium butyrate.

BUTYROUS
Bu"ty*rous, a.

Defn: Butyraceous.

BUTYRYL
Bu"ty*ryl, n.  [Butyric + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The radical (C4H7O) of butyric acid.

BUXEOUS
Bux"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. buxeus, fr. buxus the box tree.]

Defn: Belonging to the box tree.

BUXINE
Bux"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid obtained from the Buxus sempervirens, or common box
tree. It is identical with bebeerine; -- called also buxina.

BUXOM
Bux"om, a. Etym: [OE. buxum, boxom, buhsum, pliable, obedient, AS.
bocsum, buhsum (akin to D. buigzaam blexible, G. biegsam); bugan to
bow, bend + -sum, E. -some. See Bow to bend, and -some.]

1. Yielding; pliable or compliant; ready to obey; obedient;
tractable; docile; meek; humble. [Obs.]
So wild a beast, so tame ytaught to be, And buxom to his bands, is
joy to see. Spenser.
I submit myself unto this holy church of Christ, to be ever buxom and
obedient to the ordinance of it. Foxe.

2. Having the characteristics of health, vigor, and comeliness,
combined with a gay, lively manner; stout and rosy; jolly;
frolicsome.
A daughter fair, So buxom, blithe, and debonair. Milton.
A parcel of buxom bonny dames, that were laughing, singing, dancing,
and as merry as the day was long. Tatler.
-- Bux"om*ly, adv.
 -- Bux"om*ness, n.

BUY
Buy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bought; p. pr. & vb. n. Buying.] Etym: [OE.
buggen, buggen, bien, AS. bycgan, akin to OS. buggean, Goth. bugjan.]

1. To acquire the ownership of (property) by giving an accepted price
or consideration therefor, or by agreeing to do so; to acquire by the
payment of a price or value; to purchase; -- opposed to sell.
Buy what thou hast no need of, and ere long thou wilt sell thy
necessaries. B. Franklin.

2. To acquire or procure by something given or done in exchange,
literally or figuratively; to get, at a cost or sacrifice; to buy
pleasure with pain.
Buy the truth and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction, and
understanding. Prov. xxiii. 23.
To buy again. See Againbuy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- To buy off. (a) To influence to compliance; to cause to bend or
yield by some consideration; as, to buy off conscience. (b) To detach
by a consideration given; as, to buy off one from a party.
 -- To buy out (a) To buy off, or detach from. Shak. (b) To purchase
the share or shares of in a stock, fund, or partnership, by which the
seller is separated from the company, and the purchaser takes his
place; as, A buys out B. (c) To purchase the entire stock in trade
and the good will of a business.
 -- To buy in, to purchase stock in any fund or partnership.
 -- To buy on credit, to purchase, on a promise, in fact or in law,
to make payment at a future day.
 -- To buy the refusal (of anything), to give a consideration for the
right of purchasing, at a fixed price, at a future time.

BUY
Buy, v. i.

Defn: To negotiate or treat about a purchase.
I will buy with you, sell with you. Shak.

BUYER
Buy"er, n.

Defn: One who buys; a purchaser.

BUZ
Buz, v. & n.

Defn: See Buzz. [Obs.]

BUZZ
Buzz, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Buzzed; p. pr. & vb. n. Buzzing.] Etym: [An
onomatopoeia.]

Defn: To make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like that
made by bees with their wings. Hence: To utter a murmuring sound; to
speak with a low, humming voice.
Like a wasp is buzzed, and stung him. Longfellow.
However these disturbers of our peace Buzz in the people's ears.
Shak.

BUZZ
Buzz, v. t.

1. To sound forth by buzzing. Shak.

2. To whisper; to communicate, as tales, in an under tone; to spread,
as report, by whispers, or secretly.
I will buzz abroad such prophecies That Edward shall be fearful of
his life. Shak.

3. To talk to incessantly or confidentially in a low humming voice.
[Colloq.]

4. (Phonetics)

Defn: To sound with a "buzz". H. Sweet.

BUZZ
Buzz, n.

1. A continuous, humming noise, as of bees; a confused murmur, as of
general conversation in low tones, or of a general expression of
surprise or approbation. "The constant buzz of a fly." Macaulay.

I found the whole room in a buzz of politics. Addison.
There is a buzz all around regarding the sermon. Thackeray.

2. A whisper; a report spread secretly or cautiously.
There's a certain buzz Of a stolen marriage. Massinger.

3. (Phonetics)

Defn: The audible friction of voice consonants. H. Sweet.

BUZZARD
Buz"zard, n.Etym: [O.E. busard, bosard, F. busard, fr. buse, L.
buteo, a kind of falcon or hawk.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of prey of the Hawk family, belonging to the genus Buteo
and related genera.

Note: The Buteo vulgaris is the common buzzard of Europe. The
American species (of which the most common are B. borealis, B.
Pennsylvanicus, and B. lineatus) are usually called hen hawks.
 -- The rough-legged buzzard, or bee hawk, of Europe (Pernis
apivorus) feeds on bees and their larvæ, with other insects, and
reptiles.
 -- The moor buzzard of Europe is Circus æruginosus. See Turkey
buzzard, and Carrion buzzard. Bald buzzard, the fishhawk or osprey.
See Fishhawk.

2. A blockhead; a dunce.
It is common, to a proverb, to call one who can not be taught, or who
continues obstinately ignorant, a buzzard. Goldsmith.

BUZZARD
Buz"zard, a.

Defn: Senseless; stupid. [R.& Obs.] Milton.

BUZZARDET
Buz"zard*et`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hawk resembling the buzzard, but with legs relatively longer.

BUZZER
Buzz"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, buzzes; a whisperer; a talebearer.
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear With pestilent speeches of
his father's death. Shak.

BUZZINGLY
Buzz"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a buzzing manner; with a buzzing sound.

BUZZSAW
Buzz"saw`

Defn: A circular saw; -- so called from the buzzing it makes when
running at full speed.

BY
By, prep. Etym: [OE. bi, AS. bi, big, near to, by, of, from, after,
according to; akin to OS.& OFries. bi, be, D. bij, OHG. bi, G. bie,
Goth. bi, and perh. Gr.. E. prefix be- is orig.the same word. pref.
Be-.]

1. In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to;
along with; as, come and sit by me.
By foundation or by shady rivulet He sought them both. Milton.

2. On; along; in traversing. Compare 5.
Long labors both by sea and land he bore. Dryden.
By land, by water, they renew the charge. Pope.

3. Near to, while passing; hence, from one to the other side of;
past; as, to go by a church.

4. Used in specifying adjacent dimensions; as, a cabin twenty feet by
forty.

5. Against. [Obs.] Tyndale [1. Cor. iv. 4].

6. With, as means, way, process, etc.; through means of; with aid of;
through; through the act or agency of; as, a city is destroyed by
fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force.

Note: To the meaning of by, as denoting means or agency, belong, more
or less closely, most of the following uses of the word: (a) It
points out the author and producer; as, "Waverley", a novel by Sir
W.Scott; a statue by Canova; a sonata by Beethoven. (b) In an oath or
adjuration, it indicates the being or thing appealed to as sanction;
as, I affirm to you by all that is sacred; he swears by his faith as
a Christian; no, by Heaven. (c) According to; by direction,
authority, or example of; after; -- in such phrases as, it appears by
his account; ten o'clock by my watch; to live by rule; a model to
build by. (d) At the rate of; according to the ratio or proportion
of; in the measure or quantity of; as, to sell cloth by the yard,
milk by the quart, eggs by the dozen, meat by the pound; to board by
the year. (e) In comparison, it denotes the measure of excess or
deficiency; when anything is increased or diminished, it indicates
the measure of increase or diminution; as, larger by a half; older by
five years; to lessen by a third. (f) It expresses continuance or
duration; during the course of; within the period of; as, by day, by
night. (g) As soon as; not later than; near or at; -- used in
expressions of time; as, by this time the sun had risen; he will be
here by two o'clock.

Note: In boxing the compass, by indicates a pint nearer to, or
towards, the next cardinal point; as, north by east, i.e., a point
towards the east from the north; northeast by east, i.e., on point
nearer the east than northeast is.

Note: With is used instead of by before the instrument with which
anything is done; as, to beat one with a stick; the board was
fastened by the carpenter with nails. But there are many words which
may be regarded as means or processes, or, figuratively, as
instruments; and whether with or by shall be used with them is a
matter of arbitrary, and often, of unsettled usage; as, to a reduce a
town by famine; to consume stubble with fire; he gained his purpose
by flattery; he entertained them with a story; he distressed us with
or by a recital of his sufferings. see With. By all means, most
assuredly; without fail; certainly.
 -- By and by. (a) Close together (of place). [Obs.] "Two yonge
knightes liggyng [lying] by and by." Chaucer. (b) Immediately; at
once. [Obs.] "When . . . persecution ariseth because of the word, by
and by he is offended." Matt. xiii. 21. (c) Presently; pretty soon;
before long.

Note: In this phrase, by seems to be used in the sense of nearness in
time, and to be repeated for the sake of emphasis, and thus to be
equivalent to "soon, and soon," that is instantly; hence, -- less
emphatically, -- pretty soon, presently.
 -- By one's self, with only one's self near; alone; solitary.- By
the bye. See under Bye.
 -- By the head (Naut.), having the bows lower than the stern; --
said of a vessel when her head is lower in the water than her stern.
If her stern is lower, she is by the stern.
 -- By the lee, the situation of a vessel, going free, when she has
fallen off so much as to bring the wind round her stern, and to take
her sails aback on the other side.
 -- By the run, to let go by the run, to let go altogether, instead
of slacking off.
 -- By the way, by the bye; -- used to introduce an incidental or
secondary remark or subject. -Day by day, One by one, Piece by piece,
etc., each day, each one, each piece, etc., by itself singly or
separately; each severally.
 -- To come by, to get possession of; to obtain.
 -- To do by, to treat, to behave toward.
 -- To set by, to value, to esteem.
 -- To stand by, to aid, to support.

Note: The common phrase good-by is equivalent to farewell, and would
be better written good-bye, as it is a corruption of God be with you
(b'w'ye).

BY
By, adv.

1. Near; in the neighborhood; present; as, there was no person by at
the time.

2. Passing near; going past; past; beyond; as, the procession has
gone by; a bird flew by.

3. Aside; as, to lay by; to put by.

BY
By, a.

Defn: Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving
the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or
collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line,
by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in
composition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-
design, by-interest, etc.

BYARD
By"ard, n.

Defn: A piece of leather crossing the breast, used by the men who
drag sledges in coal mines.

BY-BIDDER
By"-bid`der, n.

Defn: One who bids at an auction in behalf of the auctioneer or
owner, for the purpose of running up the price of articles. [U.S.]

BY-BLOW
By"-blow`, n.

1. A side or incidental blow; an accidental blow.
With their by-blows they did split the very stones in pieces. Bunyan.

2. An illegitimate child; a bastard.
The Aga speedily . . . brought her [his disgraced slave] to court,
together with her pretty by-blow, the present Padre Ottomano. Evelyn.

BY-CORNER
By"-cor`ner, n.

Defn: A private corner.
Britain being a by-corner, out of the road of the world. Fuller.

BY-DEPENDENCE
By"-de*pend`ence, n.

Defn: An appendage; that which depends on something else, or is
distinct from the main dependence; an accessory. Shak.

BY-DRINKING
By"-drink`ing, n.

Defn: A drinking between meals. [Obs.]

BYE
Bye, n.

1. A thing not directly aimed at; something which is a secondary
object of regard; an object by the way, etc.; as in on or upon the
bye, i.e., in passing; indirectly; by implication. [Obs. except in
the phrase by the bye.]
The Synod of Dort condemneth upon the bye even the discipline of the
Church of England. Fuller.

2. (Cricket)

Defn: A run made upon a missed ball; as, to steal a bye. T. Hughes.
By the bye, in passing; by way of digression; apropos to the matter
in hand. [Written also by the by.]

BYE
Bye n. Etym: [AS.bbygbyggia, b, to dwell sq. root97.]

1. A dwelling. Gibson.

2. In certain games, a station or place of an individual player.
Emerson.

BY-ELECTION
By"-e*lec"tion, n.

Defn: An election held by itself, not at the time of a general
election.

BY-END
By"-end`, n.

Defn: Private end or interest; secret purpose; selfish advantage.
[Written also bye-end.]
"Profit or some other by-end." L'Estrange.

BYGONE
By"gone`, a.

Defn: Past; gone by. "Bygone fooleries." Shak

BYGONE
By"gone`, n.

Defn: Something gone by or past; a past event. "Let old bygones be"
Tennyson. Let bygones be bygones, let the past be forgotten.

BY-INTEREST
By"-in`ter*est, n.

Defn: Self-interest; private advantage. Atterbury.

BYLAND
By"land, n.

Defn: A peninsula. [Obs.]

BYLANDER
By"land*er, n.

Defn: See Bilander.[Obs.]

BY-LANE
By"-lane`, n.

Defn: A private lane, or one opening out of the usual road.

BY-LAW
By"-law` (, n. Etym: [Cf.Sw.bylag, D.bylov, Icel.b, fr.Sw.& Dan. by
town, Icel. bær, byr (fr. bûa to dwell) + the word for law; hence, a
law for one town, a special law. Cf.Birlaw and see Law.]

1. A local or subordinate law; a private law or regulation made by a
corporation for its own government.
There was likewise a law to restrain the by-laws, or ordinances of
corporations. Bacon.
The law or institution; to which are added two by-laws, as a comment
upon the general law. Addison.

2. A law that is less important than a general law or constitutional
provision, and subsidiary to it; a rule relating to a matter of
detail; as, civic societies often adopt a constitution and by-laws
for the government of their members. In this sense the word has
probably been influenced by by, meaning secondary or aside.

BY-NAME
By"-name`, n.

Defn: A nickname. Camden.

BYNAME
By"name`, v. t.

Defn: To give a nickname to. Camden.

BY-PASS
By"-pass, n. (Mech.)

Defn: A by-passage, for a pipe, or other channel, to divert
circulation from the usual course.

BY-PASSAGE
By"-pas`sage, n.

Defn: A passage different from the usual one; a byway.

BY-PAST
By"-past, a.

Defn: Past; gone by. "By-past perils." Shak.

BYPATH
By"path`, n.; pl. Bypaths(

Defn: A private path; an obscure way; indirect means.
God known, my son, By what bypaths, and indirect crooked ways, I met
this crown. Shak.

BY-PLACE
By"-place` (, n.

Defn: A retired or private place.

BYPLAY
By"play, n.

Defn: Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while the
main action proceeds.

BY-PRODUCT
By"-prod`uct, n.

Defn: A secondary or additional product; something produced, as in
the course of a manufacture, in addition to the principal product.

BYRE
Byre, n. Etym: [Cf, Icel. bür pantry, Sw. bur cage,Dan. buur,
E.bower.]

Defn: A cow house. [N. of Eng.& Scot.]

BY-RESPECT
By"-re*spect`, n.

Defn: Private end or view; by-interest. [Obs.] Dryden.

BYROAD
By"road`, n.

Defn: A private or obscure road. "Through slippery byroads" Swift.

BYRONIC
By"ron`ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the style of, Lord Byron.
With despair and Byronic misanthropy. Thackeray

BY-ROOM
By"-room`, n.

Defn: A private room or apartment. "Stand in some by-room" Shak.

BYSMOTTERED
By"*smot`ter*ed, p.a. Etym: [See Besmut.]

Defn: Bespotted with mud or dirt. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BY-SPEECH
By"-speech`(, n.

Defn: An incidental or casual speech, not directly relating to the
point. "To quote by-speeches." Hooker.

BY-SPELL
By"-spell`(, n. Etym: [AS. bigspell.]

Defn: A proverb. [Obs.]

BYSS
Byss, n.

Defn: See Byssus, n., 1.

BYSSACEOUS
Bys*sa"ceous, a. Etym: [From Byssus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Byssuslike; consisting of fine fibers or threads, as some very
delicate filamentous algæ.

BYSSIFEROUS
Bys*sif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Byssus + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing a byssus or tuft.

BYSSIN
Bys"sin, n.

Defn: See Byssus, n., 1.

BYSSINE
Bys"sine, a. Etym: [L. byssinus made of byssus, Gr.Byssus.]

Defn: Made of silk; having a silky or flaxlike appearance. Coles.

BYSSOID
Bys"soid, a. Etym: [Byssus + -oid.]

Defn: Byssaceous.

BYSSOLITE
Bys"so*lite, n. Etym: [Gr.-lite.] (Min.)

Defn: An olive-green fibrous variety of hornblende.

BYSSUS
Bys"sus, n.; pl. E. Byssuses(#); L. Byssi.(#) Etym: [L. byssus fine
flax, fine linen or cotton, Gr.

1. A cloth of exceedingly fine texture, used by the ancients. It is
disputed whether it was of cotton, linen, or silk. [Written also byss
and byssin.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tuft of long, tough filaments which are formed in a groove of
the foot, and issue from between the valves of certain bivalve
mollusks, as the Pinna and Mytilus, by which they attach themselves
to rocks, etc.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: An obsolete name for certain fungi composed of slender threads.

4. Asbestus.

BYSTANDER
By"stand`er, n. Etym: [By + stander, equiv. to stander-by; cf. AS.
big-standan to stand by or near.]

Defn: One who stands near; a spectator; one who has no concern with
the business transacting.
He addressed the bystanders and scattered pamphlets among them.
Palfrey.

Syn.
 -- Looker on; spectator; beholder; observer.

BY-STREET
By"-street`, n.

Defn: A separate, private, or obscure street; an out of the way or
cross street.
He seeks by-streets, and saves the expensive coach. Gay.

BY-STROKE
By"-stroke`, n.

Defn: An accidental or a slyly given stroke.

BY-TURNING
By"-turn`ing, n.

Defn: An obscure road; a way turning from the main road. Sir P.
Sidney.

BY-VIEW
By"-view`(, n.

Defn: A private or selfish view; self-interested aim or purpose.
No by-views of his own shall mislead him. Atterbury.

BY-WALK
By"-walk`(, n.

Defn: secluded or private walk.
He moves afterward in by-walks. Dryden.

BY-WASH
By"-wash`, n.

Defn: The outlet from a dam or reservoir; also, a cut to divert the
flow of water.

BYWAY
By"way`, n.

Defn: A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside from
the main one. " Take no byways." Herbert.

BY-WIPE
By"-wipe`, n.

Defn: A secret or side stroke, as of raillery or sarcasm. Milton.

BYWORD
By"word`, n. Etym: [AS.bïword; bï, E.by+word.]

1. A common saying; a proverb; a saying that has a general currency.
I knew a wise man that had it for a byword. Bacon.

2. The object of a contemptuous saying.
Thou makest us a byword among the heathen. Ps. xliv. 14

BYWORK
By"work, n.

Defn: Work aside from regular work; subordinate or secondary
business.