

BYZANT; BYZANTINE
Byz"ant, Byz"an*tine n.Etym: [OE. besant, besaunt, F. besant, fr. LL.
Byzantius, Byzantinus, fr. Byzantium.] (Numis.)

Defn: A gold coin, so called from being coined at Byzantium. See
Bezant.

BYZANTIAN
By*zan"tian, a.& n.

Defn: See Byzantine.

BYZANTINE
By*zan"tine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Byzantium.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Byzantium, now Constantinople;
sometimes, applied to an inhabitant of the modern city of
Constantinople. [ Written also Bizantine.] Byzantine church, the
Eastern or Greek church, as distinguished from the Western or Roman
or Latin church.See under Greek.
 -- Byzantine empire, the Eastern Roman or Greek empire from A.D. 364
or A.D. 395 to the capture of Constantinople by the Turks, A.D. 1453.
 -- Byzantine historians, historians and writers (Zonaras, Procopius,
etc.) who lived in the Byzantine empire. P. Cyc. Byzantine style
(Arch.), a style of architecture developed in the Byzantine empire.

Note: Its leading forms are the round arch, the dome, the pillar, the
circle, and the cross. The capitals of the pillars are the endless
variety, and full of invention. The mosque of St. Sophia,
Constantinople, and the church of St. Mark, Venice, are prominent
examples of Byzantine architecture.

C

1. C is the third letter of the English alphabet. It is from the
Latin letter C, which in old Latin represented the sounds of k, and g
(in go); its original value being the latter. In Anglo-Saxon words,
or Old English before the Norman Conquest, it always has the sound of
k. The Latin C was the same letter as the Greek got it from the
Phoenicians. The English name of C is from the Latin name ce, and was
derived, probably, through the French. Etymologically C is related to
g, h, k, q, s (and other sibilant sounds). Examples of these
relations are in L. acutus, E. acute, ague; E. acrid, eagar; L.
cornu, E. horn; E. cat, kitten; E. coy, quiet; L. circare, OF.
cerchier, E. search.

Note: See Guide to Pronunciation, t\'c5 221-228.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: (a) The keynote of the normal or "natural" scale, which has
neither flats nor sharps in its signature; also, the third note of
the relative minor scale of the same (b) C after the clef is the mark
of common time, in which each measure is a semibreve (four fourths or
crotchets); for alla breve time it is written (c) The "C clef," a
modification of the letter C, placed on any line of the staff, abows
that line to be middle C.

3. As a numeral, C stands for Latin centum or 100, CC for 200, etc. C
spring, a spring in the form of the letter C.

CAABA
Ca*a"ba, n. Etym: [Ar. ka'ban, let, a square building, fr. ka'b cube]

Defn: The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all
Mohammedans must pray. [Written also kaaba.]

Note: The Caaba is situated in Mecca, a city of Arabia, and contains
a famous black stone said to have been brought from heaven. Before
the time of Mohammed, the Caaba was an idolatrous temple, but it has
since been the chief sanctuary and object of pilgrimage of the
Mohammedan world.

CAADA
Ca*ña"da, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less
frequently, an open valley. [Local, Western U. S.]

CAAS
Caas, n. sing. & pl.

Defn: Case. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CAATINGA
Caa*tin"ga, n. [Tupi caa-tinga white forest.] (Phytogeography)

Defn: A forest composed of stunted trees and thorny bushes, found in
areas of small rainfall in Brazil.

CAB
Cab, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. cabriolet.]

1. A kind of close carriage with two or four wheels, usually a public
vehicle. "A cab came clattering up." Thackeray.

Note: A cab may have two seats at right to the driver's seat, and a
door behind; or one seat parallel to the driver's, with the entrance
from the side or front. Hansom cab. See Hansom.

2. The covered part of a locomotive, in which the engineer has his
station. Knight.

CAB
Cab, n. Etym: [Heb. gab, fr. qabab to hollow.]

Defn: A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37)
pints. W. H. Ward. 2 Kings vi. 25.

CABAL
Ca*bal", n. Etym: [F. cabale cabal, cabala LL. cabala cabala, fr.
Heb. qabbaleh reception, tradition, mysterious doctrine, fr. qabal to
take or receive, in Piël qibbel to abopt (a doctrine).]

1. Tradition; occult doctrine. See Cabala [Obs.] Hakewill.

2. A secret. [Obs.] "The measuring of the temple, a cabal found out
but lately." B. Jonson.

3. A number of persons united in some close design, usually to
promote their private views and interests in church or state by
intrigue; a secret association composed of a few designing persons; a
junto.

Note: It so happend, by a whimsical coincidence, that in 1671 the
cabinet consisted of five persons, the initial letters of whose names
made up the word cabal; Clifford, Arlington, Buckingham, Ashley, and
Lauderdale. Macaulay.

4. The secret artifices or machinations of a few persons united in a
close design; in intrigue.
By cursed cabals of women. Dryden.
Syn. - Junto; intrigue; plot; combination; conspiracy.
 -- Cabal, Combination, Faction. An association for some purpose
considered to be bad is the idea common to these terms. A combination
is an organized union of individuals for mutual support, in urging
their demands or resisting the claims of others, and may be good or
bad according to circumstances; as, a combiniation of workmen or of
employers to effect or to prevent a chang in prices. A cabal is a
secret association of a few individuals who seek by cunning practices
to obtain office and power. A faction is a larger body than a cabal,
employed for selfish purposes in agitating the community and working
up an excitement with a view to change the existing order of things.
"Selfishness, insubordination, and laxity of morals give rise to
combinations, which belong particularly to the lower orders of
society. Restless, jealous, ambitious, and little minds are ever
forming cabals. Factions belong especially to free governments, and
are raised by busy and turbulent spirits for selfish porposes".
Crabb.

CABAL
Ca*bal", v. i. [int. & p. p. Caballed; p. pr. & vb. n. Caballing].
Etym: [Cf. F. cabaler.]

Defn: To unite in a small party to promote private views and
interests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot.
Caballing still against it with the great. Dryden.

CABALA
Cab"a*la, n. Etym: [LL. See Cabal, n.]

1. A kind of occult theosophy or traditional interpretation of the
Scriptures among Jewish rabbis and certain mediæval Christians, which
treats of the nature of god and the mystery of human existence. It
assumed that every letter, word, number, and accent of Scripture
contains a hidden sense; and it teaches the methods of interpretation
for ascertaining these occult meanings. The cabalists pretend even to
foretell events by this means.

2. Secret science in general; mystic art; mystery.

CABALISM
Cab"a*lism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cabalisme.]

1. The secret science of the cabalists.

2. A superstitious devotion to the mysteries of the religion which
one professes. [R] Emerson.

CABALIST
Cab"a*list, n. Etym: [Cf.F. cabaliste.]

Defn: One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewish
traditions. "Studious cabalists." Swift.

CABALISTIC; CABALISTICAL
Cab`a*lis"tic, Cab`a*lis"tic*al a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cabala; containing or conveying an
occult meaning; mystic.
The Heptarchus is a cabalistic of the first chapter of Genesis.
Hallam.

CABALISTICALLY
Cab`a*lis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cabalistic manner.

CABALIZE
Cab"a*lize, v. i. Etym: [Cf.F. cabaliser.]

Defn: To use cabalistic language. [R] Dr. H. More.

CABALLER
Ca*bal"ler, n.

Defn: One who cabals.
A close caballer and tongue-valiant lord. Dryden.

CABALLERIA
Ca`bal*le*ri"a, n. [Sp. See Caballero.]

Defn: An ancient Spanish land tenure similar to the English knight's
fee; hence, in Spain and countries settled by the Spanish, a land
measure of varying size. In Cuba it is about 33 acres; in Porto Rico,
about 194 acres; in the Southwestern United States, about 108 acres.

CABALLERO
Ca`bal*le"ro, n. [Sp. Cf. Cavalier.]

Defn: A knight or cavalier; hence, a gentleman.

CABALLINE
Cab"al*line, a. Etym: [L.caballinus, fr. caballus a nag. Cf.
Cavalier.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a horse.
 -- n.

Defn: Caballine aloes. Caballine aloes, an inferior and impure kind
of aloes formerly used in veterinary practice; -- called also horse
aloes.
 -- Caballine spring, the fountain of Hippocrene, on Mount Helicon; -
- fabled to have been formed by a stroke from the foot of the winged
horse Pegasus.

CABALLO
Ca*bal"lo (ka*väl"yo; 220), n. [Written also cavallo.] [Sp., fr. L.
caballus a nag. See Cavalcade.]

Defn: A horse. [Sp. Amer.]

CABARET
Cab"a*ret, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A tavern; a house where liquors are retailed. [Obs. as an
English word.]

CABAS
Ca*bas", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; Hence, a lady's flat
workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba. C. Bronté.

CABASSOU
Ca*bas"sou, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A speciec of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus and
X. hispidus); the tatouay. [Written also Kabassou.]

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, n. Etym: [OE. cabage, fr. F. cabus headed (of cabbages),
chou cobus headed cabbage, cabbage head; cf. It. capuccio a little
head, cappuccio cowl, hood, cabbage, fr. capo head, L. caput, or fr.
It. cappa cape. See Chiff, Cape.] (Bot.)

1. An esculent vegetable of many varieties, derived from the wild
Brassica oleracea of Europe. The common cabbage has a compact head of
leaves. The cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, etc., are sometimes
classed as cabbages.

2. The terminal bud of certain palm trees, used, like, cabbage, for
food. See Cabbage tree, below.

3. The cabbage palmetto. See below. Cabbage aphis (Zoöl.), a green
plant-louse (Aphis brassicæ) which lives upon the leaves of the
cabbage.
 -- Cabbage Beetle (Zoöl.), a small, striped flea-beetle (Phyllotreta
vittata) which lives, in the larval state, on the roots, and when
adult, on the leaves, of cabbage and other cruciferous plants.
 -- Cabbage butterfly (Zoöl.), a white butterfly (Pieris rapæ of both
Europe and America, and the Allied P. oleracea, a native American
species) which, in the larval state, devours the leaves of the
cabbage and the turnip. See Cabbage worm, below.
 -- Cabbage Fly (Zoöl.), a small two-winged fly (Anthomyia brassicæ),
which feeds, in the larval or maggot state, on the roots of the
cabbage, often doing much damage to the crop.
 -- Cabbage head, the compact head formed by the leaves of a cabbage;
-- contemptuously or humorously, and colloquially, a very stupid and
silly person; a numskull.
 -- Cabbage palmetto, a species of palm tree (Sabal Palmetto) found
along the coast from North Carolina to Florida.
 -- Cabbage rose (Bot.), a species of rose (Rosa centifolia) having
large and heavy blossoms.
 -- Cabbage tree, Cabbage palm, a name given to palms having a
terminal bud called a cabbage, as the Sabal Palmetto of the United
States, and the Euterpe oleracea and Oreodoxa oleracea of the West
Indies.
 -- Cabbage worm (Zoöl.), the larva of several species of moths and
butterfies, which attacks cabbages. The most common is usully the
larva of a white butterfly. See Cabbage Butterfly, above. The cabbage
cutworms, which eat off the stalks or young plants during the night,
are the larvæ of several species of moths, of the genus Agrotis. See
Cutworm.
 -- Sea cabbage.(Bot.) (a) Sea kale (b). The original Plant (Brassica
oleracea), from which the cabbage, cauliflower, , broccoli, etc.,
have been derived by cultivation.
 -- Thousand-headed cabbage. See Brussels sprouts.

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, v. i.

Defn: To form a head like that the cabbage; as, to make lettuce
cabbage. Johnson.

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, v. i. [imp. & p.p Cabbaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Cabbaging (.]
Etym: [F.cabasser, fr. OF. cabas theft; cf. F. cabas basket, and OF.
cabuser to cheat.]

Defn: To purloin or embezzle, as the pieces of cloth remaining after
cutting out a garment; to pilfer.
Your tailor . . . cabbages whole yards of cloth. Arbuthnot.

CABBAGE
Cab"bage, n.

Defn: Cloth or clippings cabbaged or purloined by one who cuts out
garments.

CABBLER
Cab"bler, n.

Defn: One who works at cabbling.

CABBLING
Cab"bling, n. (Metal)

Defn: The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wrought
iron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated and
wrought into bar iron.

CABECA; CABESSE
Ca*be"ça, Ca*besse", n. Etym: [Pg. cabeça, F. cabesse.]

Defn: The finest kind of silk received from India.

CABER
Ca"ber, n. Etym: [Gael]

Defn: A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of
strength.

CABEZON
Cab`e*zon", n. Etym: [Sp., properly, big head. Cf. Cavesson.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to the
sculpin.

CABIAI
Cab"i*ai, n. Etym: [Native South American name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The capybara. See Capybara.

CABIN
Cab"in, n. Etym: [OF. caban, fr. W. caban booth, cabin, dim. of cab
cot, tent; or fr. F. cabane, cabine, LL. cabanna, perh. from the
Celtic.]

1. A cottage or small house; a hut. Swift.
A hunting cabin in the west. E. Everett.

2. A small room; an inclosed place.
So long in secret cabin there he held Her captive. Spenser.

3. A room in ship for officers or passengers. Cabin boy, a boy whose
duty is wait on the officers and passengers in the cabin of a ship.

CABIN
Cab"in v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cabined (-nd); p. pr. & vb. n. Cabining.]

Defn: To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge.
I'll make you . . . cabin in a cave. Shak.

CABIN
Cab"in, v. t.

Defn: To confine in, or as in, a cabin.
I am cabined, cribbed, confined, bound in To saucy doubts and fears.
Shak.

CABINET
Cab"i*net, n. Etym: [F., dim. of cabine or cabane. See Cabin, n.]

1. A hut; a cottage; a small house. [Obs.]
Hearken a while from thy green cabinet, The rural song of careful
Colinet. Spenser.

2. A small room, or retired apartment; a closet.

3. A private room in which consultations are held.
Philip passed some hours every day in his father's cabinet. Prescott.

4. The advisory council of the chief executive officer of a nation; a
cabinet council.

Note: In England, the cabinet or cabinet council consists of those
privy coucilors who actually transact the immediate business of the
government. Mozley & W.
 -- In the United States, the cabinet is composed of the heads of the
executive departments of the government, namely, the Secretary of
State, of the Treasury, of War, of the Navy, of the Interior, and of
Agiculture, the Postmaster-general ,and the Attorney-general.

5.
(a) A set of drawers or a cupboard intended to contain articles of
value. Hence:
(b) A decorative piece of furniture, whether open like an étagère or
closed with doors. See Etagere.

6. Any building or room set apart for the safe keeping and exhibition
of works of art, etc.; also, the collection itself. Cabinet council.
(a) Same as Cabinet, n., 4 (of which body it was formerly the full
title). (b) A meeting of the cabinet.
 -- Cabinet councilor, a member of a cabinet council.
 -- Cabinet photograph, a photograph of a size smaller than an
imperial, though larger than a carte de visite.
 -- Cabinet picture, a small and generally highly finished picture,
suitable for a small room and for close inspection.

CABINET
Cab"i*net, a.

Defn: Suitable for a cabinet; small.
He [Varnhagen von Ense] is a walking cabinet edition of Goethe. For.
Quar. Rev.

CABINET
Cab"i*net, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cabineted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cabineting.]

Defn: To inclose [R.] Hewyt.

CABINETMAKER
Cab"i*net*mak`er, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choice
articles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc.

CABINETMAKING
Cab"i*net*mak`ing, n.

Defn: The art or occupation of making the finer articles of household
furniture.

CABINETWORK
Cab"i*net*work`, n.

Defn: The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniture
requiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture.

CABIREAN
Cab`i*re"an

Defn: ,n.One of the Cabiri.

CABIRI
Ca*bi"ri, n. pl. Etym: [ NL., fr. Gr. Ka`beiroi.] (Myth.)

Defn: Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the
Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece;
-- also called sons of Hephæstus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the
art of working metals. [Written also Cabeiri.] Liddell & Scott.

CABIRIAN
Ca*bir"i*an, a.

Defn: Same as Cabiric.

CABIRIC
Ca*bir"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. Cabirique]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship.
[Written also Cabiritic.]

CABLE
Ca"ble, n. Etym: [F. Câble,m LL. capulum, caplum, a rope, fr. L.
capere to take; cf. D., Dan., & G. rabel, from the French. See
Capable.]

1. A large, strong rope or chain, of considerable length, used to
retain a vessel at anchor, and for other purposes. It is made of
hemp, of steel wire, or of iron links.

2. A rope of steel wire, or copper wire, usually covered with some
protecting, or insulating substance; as, the cable of a suspension
bridge; a telegraphic cable.

3. (Arch)

Defn: A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex,
rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; --
called also cable molding. Bower cable, the cable belonging to the
bower anchor.
 -- Cable road, a railway on which the cars are moved by a
continuously running endless rope operated by a stationary motor.
 -- Cable's length, the length of a ship's cable. Cables in the
merchant service vary in length from 100 to 140 fathoms or more; but
as a maritime measure, a cable's length is either 120 fathoms (720
feet), or about 100 fathoms (600 feet, an approximation to one tenth
of a nautical mile).
 -- Cable tier. (a) That part of a vessel where the cables are
stowed. (b) A coil of a cable.
 -- Sheet cable, the cable belonging to the sheet anchor.
 -- Stream cable, a hawser or rope, smaller than the bower cables, to
moor a ship in a place sheltered from wind and heavy seas.
 -- Submarine cable. See Telegraph.
 -- To pay out the cable, To veer out the cable, to slacken it, that
it may run out of the ship; to let more cable run out of the hawse
hole.
 -- To serve the cable, to bind it round with ropes, canvas, etc., to
prevent its being, worn or galled in the hawse, et.
 -- To slip the cable, to let go the end on board and let it all run
out and go overboard, as when there is not time to weigh anchor.
Hence, in sailor's use, to die.

CABLE
Ca"ble, v. t.

1. To fasten with a cable.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: To ornament with cabling. See Cabling.

CABLE
Ca"ble, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Cabled (-b'ld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cabling (-blòng).]

Defn: To telegraph by a submarine cable [Recent]

CABLED
Ca"bled, a.

1. Fastened with, or attached to, a cable or rope. "The cabled
stone." Dyer.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Adorned with cabling.

CABLEGRAM
Ca"ble*gram`, n. Etym: [Cable, n. + Gr.

Defn: A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.

Note: [A recent hybrid, sometimes found in the newspapers.]

CABLELAID
Ca"ble*laid`, a.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twisted
together to form a cable.

2. Twisted after the manner of a cable; as, a cable-laid gold chain.
Simmonds.

CABLET
Ca"blet, n. Etym: [Dim. of cable; cf. F. câblot.]

Defn: A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.

CABLING
Ca"bling, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilaster
with reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollows
of the fluting. These are limited in length to about one third of the
height of the shaft.

CABMAN
Cab"man, n.; pl. Cabmen (.

Defn: The driver of a cab.

CABOB
Ca*bob", n. Etym: [Hindi kabab]

1. A small piece of mutton or other meat roasted on a skewer; -- so
called in Turkey and Persia.

2. A leg of mutton roasted, stuffed with white herrings and sweet
herbs. Wright.

CABOB
Ca*bob", v. t.

Defn: To roast, as a cabob. Sir. T. Herbert.

CABOCHED
Ca*boched", a. Etym: [F. caboche head. Cf. lst Cabbage.] (Her.)

Defn: Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of the
head of a beast in armorial bearing. [Written also caboshed.]

CABOCHON
Ca`bo`chon" (ka`bo`shôN"), n. [F.] (Jewelry)

Defn: A stone of convex form, highly polished, but not faceted; also,
the style of cutting itself. Such stones are said to be cut en
cabochon.

CABOODLE
Ca*boo"dle, n.

Defn: The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usually
in the phrase the whole caboodle. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett.

CABOOSE
Ca*boose", n. Etym: [Cf. D. kabuis, kombuis, Dan. kabys, Sw. kabysa,
G. kabuse a little room or hut. The First part of the word seems to
be allied to W. cab cabin, booth. Cf. Cabin.] [Written also
camboose.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called
the galley.

2. (Railroad)

Defn: A car used on freight or construction trains for brakemen,
workmen, etc.; a tool car. [U. S.]

CABOTAGE
Cab"o*tage, n. Etym: [F. cabotage, fr. caboter to sail along the
coast; cf. Sp. cabo cape.] (Naut.)

Defn: Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage.

CABREE
Ca*brée", n. Etym: [French Canadian.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The pronghorn antelope. [Also written cabrit, cabret.]

CABRERITE
Ca*brer"ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt,
and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain.

CABRILLA
Ca*bril"la, n. Etym: [Sp., prawn.] (Zoöl)

Defn: A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genus
Serranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coast
of California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rock
bass and kelp salmon.

CABRIOLE
Cab"ri*ole, n. Etym: [F. See Cabriolet, and cf. Capriole.] (Man.)

Defn: A curvet; a leap. See Capriole.
The cabrioles which his charger exhibited. Sir W. Scott.

CABRIOLET
Cab`ri*o*let", n.Etym: [F., dim. of cabriole a leap, caper, from It.
capriola, fr. dim. of L. caper he-goat, capra she-goat. This carriage
is so called from its skipping lightness. Cf. Cab, Caper a leap.]

Defn: A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top.

CABRIT
Ca*brit", n.

Defn: Same as Cabrée.

CABURN
Cab"urn, n. Etym: [Cf. Cable, n.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize
tackles, etc.

CACAEMIA; CACHAEMIA
Ca*cæ"mi*a, Ca*chæ"mi*a n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood.

CACAINE
Ca*ca"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine.

CACAJAO
Ca*ca*jão", n. Etym: [Pg.] (Zoöl)

Defn: A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (or Brachyurus)
melanocephala). [Written also cacajo.]

CACAO
Ca*ca"o, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. Mex. kakahuatl. Cf. Cocoa, Chocolate]
(Bot.)

Defn: A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America and
the West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seeds
about the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and broma
are prepared.

CACHAEMIA; CACHEMIA
Ca*chæ"mi*a, Ca*che"mi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  bad +  blood.] (Med.)

Defn: A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood. --Ca*chæ"mic,
Ca*che"mic (#), a.

CACHALOT
Cach"a*lot, n. Etym: [F. cachalot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top of
its head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, after
death, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance called
spermaceti. See Sperm whale.

CACHE
Cache, n. Etym: [F., a hiding place, fr. cacher to conceal, to hide.]

Defn: A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and
preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry. Kane.

CACHECTIC; CACHECTICAL
Ca*chec"tic, Ca*chec"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. cachecticus, Gr.
cachectique.]

Defn: Having, or pertaining to, cachexia; as, cachectic remedies;
cachectical blood. Arbuthnot.

CACHEPOT
Cache`pot" (kash`po"), n. Etym: [F., fr. cacher to hide + pot a pot.]

Defn: An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal,
paper, etc.

CACHET
Cach"et, n. Etym: [F. fr. cacher to hide.]

Defn: A seal, as of a letter. Lettre de cachet Etym: [F.], a sealed
letter, especially a letter or missive emanating from the sovereign;
-- much used in France before the Revolution as an arbitrary order of
imprisonment.

CACHEXIA; CACHEXY
Ca*chex"i*a, Ca*chex"y, n. Etym: [L. cachexia, Gr.

Defn: A condition of ill health and impairment of nutrition due to
impoverishment of the blood, esp. when caused by a specific morbid
process (as cancer or tubercle).

CACHINNATION
Cach`in*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. cachinnatio, fr. cachinnare to laugh
aloud, cf Gr.

Defn: Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hysterical
or maniacal affections.
Hideous grimaces . . . attended this unusual cachinnation. Sir W.
Scott.

CACHINNATORY
Ca*chin"na*to*ry, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter.
Cachinnatory buzzes of approval. Carlyle.

CACHIRI
Ca*chi"ri, n.

Defn: A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of the
manioc, and resembling perry. Dunglison.

CACHOLONG
Cach"o*long, n, Etym: [F. cacholong, said to be from Cach, the name
of a river in Bucharia + cholon, a Calmuck word for stone; or fr. a
Calmuck word meaning "beautiful stone"] (Min.)

Defn: An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also,
a similar variety of opal.

CACHOU
Ca`chou", n. Etym: [F. See Cashoo.]

Defn: A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the
breath.

CACHUCHA
Ca*chu"cha, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembing the bolero.
[Sometimes in English spelled cachuca (.]
The orchestra plays the cachucha. Logfellow.

CACHUNDE
Ca*chun"de, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Med.)

Defn: A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and other
ingredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as a
stomachic and antispasmodic.

CACIQUE
Ca*cique", n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: See Cazique.

CACK
Cack, v. i. Etym: [OE. cakken, fr. L. cacare; akin to Gr. cac.]

Defn: To ease the body by stool; to go to stool. Pope.

CACKEREL
Cack"er*el, n. Etym: [OF. caquerel cagarel (Cotgr.), from the root of
E. cack.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish considered
poisonous by the ancients. See Mendole.

CACKLE
Cac"kle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cackled (-k'ld); p. pr. & vb. n.
Cackling.] Etym: [OE. cakelen; cf. LG. kakeln, D. kakelen, G.
gackeln, gackern; all of imitative origin. Cf. Gagle, Cake to
cackle.]

1. To make a sharp, broken noise or cry, as a hen or goose does.
When every goose is cackling. Shak.

2. To laugh with a broken noise, like the cackling of a hen or a
goose; to giggle. Arbuthnot.

3. To talk in a silly manner; to prattle. Johnson.

CACKLE
Cac"kle, n.

1. The sharp broken noise made by a goose or by a hen that has laid
an egg.
By her cackle saved the state. Dryden.

2. Idle talk; silly prattle.
There is a buzz and cackle all around regarding the sermon.
Thackeray.

CACKLER
Cac"kler, n.

1. A fowl that cackles.

2. One who prattles, or tells tales; a tattler.

CACKLING
Cac"kling, n.

Defn: The broken noise of a goose or a hen.

CACOCHYMIA; CACOCHYMY
Cac`o*chym"i*a, Cac"o*chym`y, n. Etym: [NL. cacochymia, fr. Gr.
cacochymie.] (Med.)

Defn: A vitiated state of the humors, or fluids, of the body,
especially of the blood. Dunglison.

CACOCHYMIC; CACOCHYMICAL
Cac`o*chym"ic, Cac`o*chym"ic*al, a.

Defn: Having the fluids of the body vitiated, especially the blood.
Wiseman.

CACODEMON
Cac`o*de"mon, n. Etym: [Gr. cacodémon.]

1. An evil spirit; a devil or demon. Shak.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The nightmare. Dunaglison.

CACODOXICAL
Cac`o*dox"ic*al, a.

Defn: Heretical.

CACODOXY
Cac"o*dox`y, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy. [R.]
Heterodoxy, or what Luther calls cacodoxy. R. Turnbull.

CACODYL
Cac"o*dyl, n. Etym: [Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4,
spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeable
odor. It is the type of a series of compounds analogous to the
nitrogen compounds called hydrazines. [Written also cacodyle, and
kakodyl.]

CACODYLIC
Cac`o*dyl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl. Cacodylic acid, a
white, crystalline, deliquescent substance, (CH3)2AsO.OH, obtained by
the oxidation of cacodyl, and having the properties of an exceedingly
stable acid; -- also called alkargen.

CACOETHES
Cac`o*ë"thes, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A bad custom or habit; an insatiable desire; as, cacoëthes
scribendi, "The itch for writing". Addison.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A bad quality or disposition in a disease; an incurable ulcer.

CACOGASTRIC
Cac`o*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Troubled with bad digestion. [R.] Carlyle.

CACOGRAPHIC
Cac`o*graph`ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly written
or spelled.

CACOGRAPHY
Ca*cog`ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy; cf. F. cacographie.]

Defn: Incorrect or bad writing or spelling. Walpole.

CACOLET
Ca`co*let", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back or
pack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainous
districts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of an
army.

CACOLOGY
Ca*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. cacologie.]

Defn: Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words. Buchanan.

CACOMIXLE; CACOMIXTLE; CACOMIXL
Ca`co*mix"le, Ca`co*mix"tle, Ca"co*mix`l, n. Etym: [Mexican name.]

Defn: A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of
a cat, related to the raccoons. It inhabits Mexico, Texas, and
California.

CACOON
Ca*coon", n.

Defn: One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada
scandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.

CACOPHONIC; CACOPHONICAL; CACOPHONOUS; CACOPHONIOUS
Cac`o*phon"ic, Cac`o*phon"ic*al, Ca*coph"o*nous, Cac`o*pho"ni*ous, a.

Defn: Harsh-sounding.

CACOPHONY
Ca*coph"o*ny, n.; pl. Cacophonies. Etym: [Gr. Cacophonie.]

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to the
concurrence of harsh letters or syllables. "Cacophonies of all
kinds." Pope.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A combination of discordant sounds.

3. (Med.)

Defn: An unhealthy state of the voice.

CACOSTOMIA
Cac`o*sto"mi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  bad +  mouth.] (Med.)

Defn: Diseased or gangrenous condition of the mouth.

CACOTECHNY
Cac"o*tech`ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A corruption or corrupt state of art. [R.]

CACOXENE; CACOXENITE
Ca*cox"ene, Ca*cox"e*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts.
The phosphorus seriously injures it as an iron ore.

CACTACEOUS
Cac*ta"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which the
prickly pear is a common example.

CACTUS
Cac"tus, n. ; pl. E. Cactuses, Cacti (-ti). Etym: [L., a kind of
cactus, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the order Cactacæ, as the prickly pear and the
night-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stems
and branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostly
natives of the warmer parts of America. Cactus wren (Zoöl.), an
American wren of the genus Campylorhynchus, of several species.

CACUMINAL
Ca*cu"mi*nal, a. Etym: [L. cacumen, cacuminis, the top, point.]
(Philol.)

Defn: Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied to
certain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters.

CACUMINATE
Ca*cu"mi*nate, v. i. Etym: [L. cacuminatus, p. p. of cacuminare to
point, fr. cacumen point.]

Defn: To make sharp or pointed. [Obs.]

CAD
Cad, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. cadet.]

1. A person who stands at the door of an omnibus to open and shut it,
and to receive fares; an idle hanger-on about innyards. [Eng.]
Dickens.

2. A lowbred, presuming person; a mean, vulgar fellow. [Cant]
Thackeray.

CADASTRAL
Ca*das"tral, a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to landed property. Cadastral survey, or
Cadastral map, a survey, map, or plan on a large scale (Usually
topographical map, which exaggerates the dimensions of houses and the
breadth of roads and streams, for the sake of distinctness. Brande &
C.

CADASTRE; CADASTER
Ca*das"tre, Ca*das"ter, n. Etym: [f. cadastre.] (Law.)

Defn: An official statement of the quantity and value of real estate
for the purpose of apportioning the taxes payable on such property.

CADAVER
Ca*da"ver, n. Etym: [L., fr cadere to fall.]

Defn: A dead human body; a corpse.

CADAVERIC
Ca*dav"er*ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changes
produced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity. Dunglison.
Cadaveric alkaloid, an alkaloid generated by the processes of
decomposition in dead animal bodies, and thought by some to be the
cause of the poisonous effects produced by the bodies. See Ptomaine.

CADAVERINE; CADAVERIN
Ca*dav"er*ine, Ca*dav"er*in, n. [From Cadaver.] (Chem.)

Defn: A sirupy, nontoxic ptomaine, C5H14N2 (chemically pentamethylene
diamine), formed in putrefaction of flesh, etc.

CADAVEROUS
Ca*dav"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. cadaverosus.]

1. Having the appearance or color of a dead human body; pale;
ghastly; as, a cadaverous look.

2. Of or pertaining to, or having the qualities of, a dead body. "The
scent cadaverous." -- Ca*dav"er*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*dav"er*ous*ness, n.

CADBAIT
Cad"bait`, n. Etym: [Prov. E. codbait, cadbote fly.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Caddice.

CADDICE; CADDIS
Cad"dice, Cad"dis, n. Etym: [Prov. E. caddy, cadew; cf. G. köder
bait.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of a caddice fly. These larvæ generally live in
cylindrical cases, open at each end, and covered externally with
pieces of broken shells, gravel, bits of wood, etc. They are a
favorite bait with anglers. Called also caddice worm, or caddis worm.
Caddice fly (Zoöl.), a species of trichopterous insect, whose larva
is the caddice.

CADDIS
Cad"dis, n. Etym: [OE. caddas, Scot. caddis lint, caddes a kind of
woolen cloth, cf. Gael. cada, cadadh, a kind of cloth, cotton,
fustian, W. cadas, F. cadis.]

Defn: A kind of worsted lace or ribbon. "Caddises, cambrics, lawns."
Shak.

CADDISH
Cad"dish, a.

Defn: Like a cad; lowbred and presuming.

CADDOW
Cad"dow, n. Etym: [OE. cadawe, prob. fr. ca chough + daw jackdaw; cf.
Gael. cadhag, cathag. Cf. Chough, Daw, n.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A jackdaw. [Prov. Eng.]

CADDY
Cad"dy, n.; pl. Caddies. Etym: [Earlier spelt catty, fr. Malay kati a
weight of 11/3 pounds. Cf. Catty.]

Defn: A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in.

CADE
Cade, a. Etym: [Cf. OE. cad, kod, lamb, also Cosset, Coddle.]

Defn: Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.
He brought his cade lamb with him. Sheldon.

CADE
Cade, v. t.

Defn: To bring up or nourish by hand, or with tenderness; to coddle;
to tame. [Obs.] Johnson.

CADE
Cade, n. Etym: [L. cadus jar, Gr.

Defn: A barrel or cask, as of fish. "A cade of herrings." Shak.
A cade of herrings is 500, of sprats 1,000. Jacob, Law Dict.

CADE
Cade, n. Etym: [F. & Pr.; LL. cada.]

Defn: A species of juniper (Juniperus Oxycedrus) of Mediterranean
countries. Oil of cade, a thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by
destructive distillation of the inner wood of the cade. It is used as
a local application in skin diseases.

CADENCE
Ca"dence, n. Etym: [OE. cadence, cadens, LL. cadentia a falling, fr.
L. cadere to fall; cf. F. cadence, It. cadenza. See Chance.]

1. The act or state of declining or sinking. [Obs.]
Now was the sun in western cadence low. Milton.

2. A fall of the voice in reading or speaking, especially at the end
of a sentence.

3. A rhythmical modulation of the voice or of any sound; as, music of
bells in cadence sweet.
Blustering winds, which all night long Had roused the sea, now with
hoarse cadence lull Seafaring men o'erwatched. Milton.
The accents . . . were in passion's tenderest cadence. Sir W. Scott.

4. Rhythmical flow of language, in prose or verse.
Golden cadence of poesy. Shak.
If in any composition much attention was paid to the flow of the
rhythm, it was said (at least in the 14th and 15th centuries) to be
"prosed in faire cadence." Dr. Guest.

5. (Her.)

Defn: See Cadency.

6. (Man.)

Defn: Harmony and proportion in motions, as of a well-managed horse.

7. (Mil.)

Defn: A uniform time and place in marching.

8. (Mus.)
(a) The close or fall of a strain; the point of rest, commonly
reached by the immediate succession of the tonic to the dominant
chord.
(b) A cadenza, or closing embellishment; a pause before the end of a
strain, which the performer may fill with a flight of fancy.
Imperfect cadence. (Mus.) See under Imperfect.

CADENCE
Ca"dence, v. t.

Defn: To regulate by musical measure.
These parting numbers, cadenced by my grief. Philips.

CADENCY
Ca"den*cy, n.

Defn: Descent of related families; distinction between the members of
a family according to their ages. Marks of cadency (Her.), bearings
indicating the position of the bearer as older or younger son, or as
a descendant of an older or younger son. See Difference (Her.).

CADENE
Ca*dene", n. Etym: [Cf. F. cadène.]

Defn: A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.
McElrath.

CADENT
Ca"dent, a. Etym: [L. cadens, -entis, p. pr. of cadere to fall.]

Defn: Falling. [R.] "Cadent tears." Shak.

CADENZA
Ca*den"za, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of a
piece, commonly just before the final cadence.

CADER
Ca"der, n.

Defn: See Cadre.

CADET
Ca*det", n. Etym: [F. cadet a younger or the youngest son or brother,
dim. fr. L. caput head; i. e., a smaller head of the family, after
the first or eldest. See Chief, and cf. Cad.]

1. The younger of two brothers; a younger brother or son; the
youngest son.
The cadet of an ancient and noble family. Wood.

2. (Mil.)
(a) A gentleman who carries arms in a regiment, as a volunteer, with
a view of acquiring military skill and obtaining a commission.
(b) A young man in training for military or naval service; esp. a
pupil in a military or naval school, as at West Point, Annapolis, or
Woolwich.

Note: All the undergraduates at Annapolis are Naval cadets. The
distinction between Cadet midshipmen and Cadet engineers was
abolished by Act of Congress in 1882.

CADETSHIP
Ca*det"ship, n.

Defn: The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get a
cadetship.

CADEW; CADEWORM
Ca*dew", Cade"worm`, n.

Defn: A caddice. See Caddice.

CADGE
Cadge, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Cadged; p. pr. & vb. n. Cadging.]
Etym: [Cf. Scot. cache, caich, cadge, to toss, drive, OE. cachen to
drive, catch, caggen to bind, or perh. E. cage. Cf. Cadger.]

1. To carry, as a burden. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell.

2. To hawk or peddle, as fish, poultry, etc. [Prov.]

3. To intrude or live on another meanly; to beg. [Prov. or Slang,
Eng.] Wright.

CADGE
Cadge, n. Etym: [Cf. 2d Cadger.] (Hawking)

Defn: A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale.

CADGER
Cadg"er, n. Etym: [From Cadge, v. t., cf. Codger.]

1. A packman or itinerant huckster.

2. One who gets his living by trickery or begging. [Prov. or Slang]
"The gentleman cadger." Dickens.

CADGER
Cadg"er, n. Etym: [OF. cagier one who catches hawks. Cf. Cage.]
(Hawking)

Defn: One who carries hawks on a cadge.

CADGY
Cadg"y, a.

Defn: Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also,
wanton. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

CADI
Ca"di, n. Etym: [Turk. See Alcalde.]

Defn: An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usually
the judge of a town or village.

CADIE; CADDIE
Cad"ie, Cad"die, n.

Defn: A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger. [Written also cady.]
Every Scotchman, from the peer to the cadie. Macaulay.

CADILESKER
Ca`di*les"ker, n. Etym: [Ar. qa\'c8i judge + al'sker the army, Per.
leshker.]

Defn: A chief judge in the Turkish empire, so named originally
because his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who are
now tried only by their own officers.

CADILLAC
Ca*dil"lac, n. Etym: [Prob. from Cadillac, a French town.]

Defn: A large pear, shaped like a flattened top, used chiefly for
cooking. Johnson.

CADIS
Cad"is, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of coarse serge.

CADMEAN
Cad*me"an, a. Etym: [L. Cadmeus, Gr. Cadmus), which name perhaps
means lit. a man from the East; cf. Heb. qedem east.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, who
was said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters of
the alphabet -- Cadmean letters. Cadmean victory, a victory that
damages the victors as much as the vanquished; probably referring to
the battle in which the soldiers who sprang from the dragon's teeth
sown by Cadmus slew each other.

CADMIA
Cad"mi*a, n. Etym: [L. cadmia calamine, Gr. Calamine.] (Min.)

Defn: An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces where
zinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine.

CADMIAN
Cad"mi*an, a. [R.]

Defn: See Cadmean.

CADMIC
Cad"mic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmic
sulphide.

CADMIUM
Cad"mi*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Cadmia.] (Chem.)

Defn: A comparatively rare element related to zinc, and occurring in
some zinc ores. It is a white metal, both ductile and malleable.
Symbol Cd. Atomic weight 111.8. It was discovered by Stromeyer in
1817, who named it from its association with zinc or zinc ore.
Cadmium yellow, a compound of cadmium and sulphur, of an intense
yellow color, used as a pigment.

CADRANS
Cad"rans, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cadran. Cf. Quadrant.]

Defn: An instrument with a graduated disk by means of which the
angles of gems are measured in the process of cutting and polishing.

CADRE
Ca"dre, n. Etym: [F. cadre, It. quadro square, from L. quadrum, fr.
quatuor four.] (Mil.)

Defn: The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be
formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff. [Written also
cader.]

CADUCARY
Ca*du"ca*ry, a. Etym: [See Caducous.] (Law)

Defn: Relating to escheat, forfeiture, or confiscation.

CADUCEAN
Ca*du"ce*an, a.

Defn: Of or belonging to Mercury's caduceus, or wand.

CADUCEUS
Ca*du"ce*us, n. Etym: [L. caduceum, caduceus; akin to Gr. (Myth.)

Defn: The official staff or wand of Hermes or Mercury, the messenger
of the gods. It was originally said to be a herald's staff of olive
wood, but was afterwards fabled to have two serpents coiled about it,
and two wings at the top.

CADUCIBRANCHIATE
Ca*du`ci*bran"chi*ate, a. Etym: [L. caducus falling (fr. cadere to
fall) + E. branchiate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: With temporary gills: -- applied to those Amphibia in which the
gills do not remain in adult life.

CADUCITY
Ca*du"ci*ty, n. Etym: [LL. caducitas: cf. F. caducité. See Caducous.]

Defn: Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility. [R.]
[A] jumble of youth and caducity. Chesterfield.

CADUCOUS
Ca*du"cous, Etym: [L. caducus falling, inclined to fall, fr. cadere
to fall. See Cadence.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Dropping off or disappearing early, as the calyx of a poppy, or
the gills of a tadpole.

CADUKE
Ca*duke", a. Etym: [Cf. F. caduc. See Caducous.]

Defn: Perishable; frail; transitory. [Obs.] Hickes.
The caduke pleasures of his world. Bp. Fisher.

CADY
Cad"y, n.

Defn: See Cadie.

CAECA
Cæ"ca, n. pl.

Defn: See Cæcum.

CAECAL
Cæ"cal, a. (Anat.)

1. Of or pertaining to the cæcum, or blind gut.

2. Having the form of a cæcum, or bag with one opening; baglike; as,
the cæcal extremity of a duct.

CAECIAS
Cæ"ci*as, n. Etym: [L. caecias, Gr.

Defn: A wind from the northeast. Milton.

CAECILIAN
Cæ*cil"i*an, n. Etym: [L. caecus blind. So named from the supposed
blindness of the species, the eyes being very minute.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A limbless amphibian belonging to the order Cæciliæ or
Ophimorpha. See Ophiomorpha. [Written also coecilian.]

CAECUM
Cæ"cum, n.; pl. Cæcums, L. Cæca. Etym: [L. caecus blind, invisible,
concealed.] (Anat.)
(a) A cavity open at one end, as the blind end of a canal or duct.
(b) The blind part of the large intestine beyond the entrance of the
small intestine; -- called also the blind gut.

Note: The cæcum is comparatively small in man, and ends in a slender
portion, the vermiform appendix; but in herbivorous mammals it is
often as large as the rest of the large intestine. In fishes there
are often numerous intestinal cæca.

CAELATURA
Cæ`la*tu"ra, n. [L., fr. caelare to engrave in relief.]

Defn: Art of producing metal decorative work other than statuary, as
reliefs, intaglios, engraving, chasing, etc.

CAENOZOIC
Cæ`no*zo"ic, a. (Geol.)

Defn: See Cenozoic.

CAEN STONE
Ca"en stone",

Defn: A cream-colored limestone for building, found near Caen,
France.

CAESAR
Cæ"sar, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Cæsar.
Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerful
ruler. See Kaiser, Kesar.
Malborough anticipated the day when he would be servilely flattered
and courted by Cæsar on one side and by Louis the Great on the other.
Macaulay.

CAESAREAN; CAESARIAN
Cæ*sa"re*an, Cæ*sa"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Caesareus, Caesarianus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cæsar or the Cæsars; imperial. Cæsarean
section (Surg.), the operation of taking a child from the womb by
cutting through the walls of the abdomen and uterus; -- so called
because Julius Cæsar is reported to have been brought into the world
by such an operation.

CAESARISM
Cæ"sar*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Césarisme.]

Defn: A system of government in which unrestricted power is exercised
by a single person, to whom, as Cæsar or emperor, it has been
committed by the popular will; imperialism; also, advocacy or support
of such a system of government.

Note: This word came into prominence in the time of Napoleon III., as
an expression of the claims and political views of that emperor, and
of the politicians of his court.

CAESIOUS
Cæ"si*ous, a. Etym: [L. caesius bluish gray.] (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Of the color of lavender; pale blue with a slight mixture of
gray. Lindley.

CAESIUM
Cæ"si*um, n. Etym: [NL., from L. caesius bluish gray.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare alkaline metal found in mineral water; -- so called from
the two characteristic blue lines in its spectrum. It was the first
element discovered by spectrum analysis, and is the most strongly
basic and electro-positive substance known. Symbol Cs. Atomic weight
132.6.

CAESPITOSE
Cæs"pi*tose`, a.

Defn: Same as Cespitose.

CAESURA
Cæ*su"ra, n.; pl. E. Cæsuras (, L. Cæsuræ ( Etym: [L. caesura a
cutting off, a division, stop, fr. caedere, caesum, to cut off. See
Concise.]

Defn: A metrical break in a verse, occurring in the middle of a foot
and commonly near the middle of the verse; a sense pause in the
middle of a foot. Also, a long syllable on which the cæsural accent
rests, or which is used as a foot.

Note: In the following line the cæsura is between study and of.
The prop | er stud | y || of | mankind | is man.

CAESURAL
Cæ*su"ral, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cæsura. Cæsural pause, a pause made at a
cæsura.

CAFE
Ca`fé", n. Etym: [F. See Coffee.]

Defn: A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or
restaurant where coffee and liquors are served.

CAFENET; CAFENEH
Caf"e*net, Caf"e*neh, n. Etym: [Turk. qahveh khaneh coffeehouse.]

Defn: A humble inn or house of rest for travelers, where coffee is
sold. [Turkey]

CAFETERIA
Caf`e*te"ri*a, n. [Cf. F. cafetière.]

Defn: A restaurant or café at which the patrons serve themselves with
food kept at a counter, taking the food to small tables to eat. [U.
S.]

CAFFEIC
Caf*fe"ic, a. Etym: [See Coffee.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee. Caffeic acid, an acid
obtained from coffee tannin, as a yellow crystalline substance,
C9H8O4.

CAFFEINE
Caf*fe"ine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caféine. See Coffee.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained from
coffee. It is identical with the alkaloid theine from tea leaves, and
with guaranine from guarana.

CAFFETANNIC
Caf`fe*tan"nic, a. Etym: [Caffeic + tannic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee.
Caffetannic acid, a variety of tannin obtained from coffee berries,
regarded as a glucoside.

CAFFILA
Caf"fi*la, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: See Cafila.

CAFFRE
Caf"fre, n.

Defn: See Kaffir.

CAFILA; CAFILEH
Ca"fi*la, Ca"fi*leh, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: A caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government
caravan; a string of pack horses.

CAFTAN
Caf"tan, n. Etym: [Turk. qaftan: cf. F. cafetan.]

Defn: A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown
with sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by a
belt or sash.

CAFTAN
Caf"tan, v. t.

Defn: To clothe with a caftan. [R.]
The turbaned and caftaned damsel. Sir W. Scott.

CAG
Cag, n.

Defn: See Keg. [Obs.]

CAGE
Cage, n. Etym: [F. cage, fr. L. cavea cavity, cage, fr. cavus hollow.
Cf. Cave, n., Cajole, Gabion.]

1. A box or inclosure, wholly or partly of openwork, in wood or
metal, used for confining birds or other animals.
In his cage, like parrot fine and gay. Cowper.

2. A place of confinement for malefactors Shak.
Stone walls do not a prison make, Nor iron bars a cage. Lovelace.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; as
the cage of a staircase. Gwilt.

4. (Mach.)
(a) A skeleton frame to limit the motion of a loose piece, as a ball
valve.
(b) A wirework strainer, used in connection with pumps and pipes.

5. The box, bucket, or inclosed platform of a lift or elevator; a
cagelike structure moving in a shaft.

6. (Mining)

Defn: The drum on which the rope is wound in a hoisting whim.

7. (Baseball)

Defn: The catcher's wire mask.

CAGE
Cage, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caged; p. pr. & vb. n. Caging.]

Defn: To confine in, or as in, a cage; to shut up or confine. "Caged
and starved to death." Cowper.

CAGED
Caged, a.

Defn: Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison. "The
caged cloister." Shak.

CAGELING
Cage"ling, n. Etym: [Cage + -ling]

Defn: A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird. [Poetic]
Tennyson.

CAGIT
Ca"git, n. (Zoöl)

Defn: A king of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in the
Philippine Islands.

CAGMAG
Cag"mag, n.

Defn: A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind. [Prov.
Eng.] Halliwell.

CAGOT
Ca"got, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until
1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs). They are
supposed to be a remnant of the Visigoths.

CAHENSLYISM
Ca*hens"ly*ism, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A plan proposed to the Pope in 1891 by P. P. Cahensly, a member
of the German parliament, to divide the foreign-born population of
the United States, for ecclesiastical purposes, according to European
nationalities, and to appoint bishops and priests of like race and
speaking the same language as the majority of the members of a
diocese or congregation. This plan was successfully opposed by the
American party in the Church.

CAHIER
Ca`hier", n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. cayer, fr. LL. quaternum. See Quire
of paper. The sheets of manuscript were folded into parts.]

1. A namber of sheets of paper put loosely together; esp. one of the
successive portions of a work printed in numbers.

2. A memorial of a body; a report of legislative proceedings, etc.

CAHINCA ROOT
Ca*hin"ca root`. [Written also cainca root.] [See Cahincic.] (Bot.)

Defn: The root of an American shrub (Chiococca racemosa), found as
far north as Florida Keys, from which cahincic acid is obtained;
also, the root of the South American Chiococca anguifuga, a
celebrated antidote for snake poison.

CAHINCIC
Ca*hin"cic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, cahinca, the native name of a
species of Brazilian Chiococca, perhaps C. recemosa; as, cahincic
acid.

CAHOOT
Ca*hoot", n. Etym: [Perhaps fr. f. cohorte a a company or band.]

Defn: Partnership; as to go in cahoot with a person. [Slang,
southwestern U. S.] Bartlett.

CAIMACAM
Cai`ma*cam", n. Etym: [Turk.]

Defn: The governor of a sanjak or district in Turkey.

CAIMAN
Cai"man, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cayman.

CAINOZOIC
Cai`no*zo"ic, a.

Defn: (Geol.) See Cenozic.

CAIQUE
Ca*ïque", n. Etym: [F., fr. Turk. qa\'c6q boat.] (Naut..)

Defn: A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a
Levantine vessel of larger size.

CA IRA
Ça"i*ra". Etym: [F. ça ira, ça ira, les aristocrates à la lanterne,
it shall go on, it shall go on, [hang]the arictocrats to the lantern
(lamp-post).]

Defn: The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution.

CAIRD
Caird, n. Etym: [Ir. ceard a tinker.]

Defn: A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar. [Prov. Eng.]

CAIRN
Cairn, n. Etym: [Gael. carn, gen. cairn, a heap: cf. Ir. & W. carn.]

1. A rounded or conical heap of stones erected by early inhabitants
of the British Isles, apparently as a sepulchral monument.
Now here let us place the gray stone of her cairn. Campbell.

2. A pile of stones heaped up as a landmark, or to arrest attention,
as in surveying, or in leaving traces of an exploring party, etc. C.
Kingsley. Kane.

CAIRNGORMSTONE
Cairn*gorm"stone`. Etym: [Gael. carn a cairn + gorm azure.] (Min.)

Defn: A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, or
crystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, in
Scotland.

CAISSON
Cais"son, n. Etym: [F., fr. caisse, case, chest. See 1st Case.]

1. (Mil.)
(a) A chest to hold ammunition.
(b) A four-wheeled carriage for conveying ammunition, consisting of
two parts, a body and a limber. In light field batteries there is one
caisson to each piece, having two ammunition boxes on the body, and
one on the limber. Farrow.
(c) A chest filled with explosive materials, to be laid in the way of
an enemy and exploded on his appoach.

2.
(a) A water-tight box, of timber or iron within which work is carried
on in building foundations or structures below the water level.
(b) A hollow floating box, usually of iron, which serves to close the
entrances of docks and basins.
(c) A structure, usually with an air chamber, placed beneath a vessel
to lift or float it.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A sunk panel of ceilings or soffits. Pneumatic caisson
(Engin.), a caisson, closed at the top but open at the bottom, and
resting upon the ground under water. The pressure of air forced into
the caisson keeps the water out. Men and materials are admitted to
the interior through an air lock. See Lock.

CAISSON DISEASE
Cais"son dis*ease". (Med.)

Defn: A disease frequently induced by remaining for some time in an
atmosphere of high pressure, as in caissons, diving bells, etc. It is
characterized by neuralgic pains and paralytic symptoms. It is
variously explained, most probably as due to congestion of internal
organs with subsequent stasis of the blood.

CAITIFF
Cai"tiff, a. Etym: [OE. caitif, cheitif, captive, miserable, OF.
caitif, chaitif, captive, mean, wretched, F. chétif, fr. L. captivus
captive, fr. capere to take, akin to E. heave. See Heave, and cf.
Captive.]

1. Captive; wretched; unfortunate. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Base; wicked and mean; cowardly; despicable.
Arnold had sped his caitiff flight. W. Irving.

CAITIFF
Cai"tiff, n.

Defn: A captive; a prisoner. [Obs.]
Avarice doth tyrannize over her caitiff and slave. Holland.

2. A wretched or unfortunate man. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. A mean, despicable person; one whose character meanness and
wickedness meet.

Note: The deep-felt conviction of men that slavery breaks down the
moral character . . . speaks out with . . . distinctness in the
change of meaning which caitiff has undergone signifying as it now
does, one of a base, abject disposition, while there was a time when
it had nothing of this in it. Trench.

CAJEPUT
Caj"e*put, n.

Defn: See Cajuput.

CAJOLE
Ca*jole", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cajoled; p. pr. & vb. n. Cajoling.]
Etym: [F. cajoler, orig., to chatter like a bird in a cage, to sing;
hence, to amuse with idle talk, to flatter, from the source of OF.
goale, jaiole, F. geôle, dim. of cage a cage. See Cage, Jail.]

Defn: To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.
I am not about to cajole or flatter you into a reception of my views.
F. W. Robertson.

Syn.
 -- To flatter; wheedle; delude; coax; entrap.

CAJOLEMENT
Ca*jole"ment, n.

Defn: The act of cajoling; the state of being cajoled; cajolery.
Coleridge.

CAJOLER
Ca*jol"er, n.

Defn: A flatterer; a wheedler.

CAJOLERY
Ca*jol"er*y, n.; pl. Cajoleries (.

Defn: A wheedling to delude; words used in cajoling; flattery.
"Infamous cajoleries." Evelyn.

CAJUN
Ca"jun, n. [A corruption of Acadian.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: In Louisiana, a person reputed to be Acadian French descent.

CAJUPUT
Caj"u*put, n. Etym: [Of Malayan origin; kayu tree + putih white.]
(Med.)

Defn: A highly stimulating volatile infammable oil, distilled from
the leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi, etc.) It is
greenish in color and has a camphoraceous odor and pungent taste.

CAJUPUTENE
Caj"u*put*ene`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorlees or greenish oil extracted from cajuput.

CAKE
Cake, n. Etym: [OE. cake, kaak; akin to Dan. kage, Sw. & Icel. kaka,
D. koek, G.kuchem, OHG. chuocho.]

1. A small mass of dough baked; especially, a thin loaf from
unleavened dough; as, an oatmeal cake; johnnycake.

2. A sweetened composition of flour and other ingredients, leavened
or unleavened, baked in a loaf or mass of any size or shape.

3. A thin wafer-shaped mass of fried batter; a griddlecake or
pancake; as buckwheat cakes.

4. A mass of matter concreted, congealed, or molded into a solid mass
of any form, esp. into a form rather flat than high; as, a cake of
soap; an ague cake.
Cakes of rusting ice come rolling down the flood. Dryden.
Cake urchin (Zoöl), any species of flat sea urchins belonging to the
Clypeastroidea.
 -- Oil cake the refuse of flax seed, cotton seed, or other vegetable
substance from which oil has been expressed, compacted into a solid
mass, and used as food for cattle, for manure, or for other purposes.
 -- To have one's cake dough, to fail or be disappointed in what one
has undertaken or expected. Shak.

CAKE
Cake, v. i.

Defn: To form into a cake, or mass.

CAKE
Cake, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caked; p. pr. & vb. n. Caking.]

Defn: To concrete or consolidate into a hard mass, as dough in an
oven; to coagulate.
Clotted blood that caked within. Addison.

CAKE
Cake, v. i.

Defn: To cackle as a goose. [Prov. Eng.]

CAKING COAL
Cak"ing coal`.

Defn: See Coal.

CAL
Cal, n. (Cornish Mines)

Defn: Wolfram, an ore of tungsten. Simmonds.

CALABAR
Cal"a*bar, n.

Defn: A district on the west coast of Africa. Calabar bean, The of a
climbing legumious plant (Physostigma venenosum), a native of
tropical Africa. It is highly poisonous. It is used to produce
contraction of the pupil of the eye; also in tetanus, neuralgia, and
rheumatic diseases; -- called also ordeal bean, being used by the
negroes in trials for witchcraft.

CALABARINE
Cal"a*bar*ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid resembing physostigmine and occurring with it in
the calabar bean.

CALABASH
Cal"a*bash, n. Etym: [Sp. calabaza, or Pg. calaba, caba (cf. F.
Calebasse), lit., a dry gourd, fr. Ar. qar', fem., a kind of gourd +
aibas dry.]

1. The common gourd (plant or fruit).

2. The fruit of the calabash tree.

3. A water dipper, bottle, backet, or other utensil, made from the
dry shell of a calabash or gourd. Calabash tree. (Bot.), a tree of
tropical America (Crescentia cujete), producing a large gourdike
fruit, containing a purgative pulp. Its hard shell, after the removal
of the pulp, is used for cups, bottles, etc. The African calabash
tree is the baobab.

CALABOOSE
Cal`a*boose", n. Etym: [A corruption of Sp. calabozo dungeon.]

Defn: A prison; a jail. [Local, U. S.]

CALABOZO
Ca`la*bo"zo, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A jail. See Calaboose.

CALADE
Ca*lade", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse is
made to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches.

CALADIUM
Ca*la"di*um, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A genus of aroideous plants, of which some species are
cultivated for their immense leaves (which are often curiously
blotched with white and red), and others (in Polynesia) for food.

CALAITE
Cal"a*ite, n. Etym: [L. calaïs, Gr. calaïte.]

Defn: A mineral. See Turquoise.

CALAMANCO
Cal`a*man"co, n. Etym: [LL. calamancus, calamacus; cf. camelaucum; a
head covering made of camel's hair, NGr. calmande a woolen stuff.]

Defn: A glossy woolen stuff, plain, striped, or checked. "a gay
calamanco waistcoat." Tatler.

CALAMANDER WOOD
Cal"a*man`der wood.

Defn: A valuable furniture wood from India and Ceylon, of a hazel-
brown color, with black stripes, very hard in texture. It is a
species of ebony, and is obtained from the Diospyros qusesita. Called
also Coromandel wood.

CALAMAR; CALAMARY
Cal"a*mar, Cal"a*ma*ry, n. Etym: [LL. calamarium inkstand, fr. L.
calamus a reed pen: cf. F. calmar, calemar, pen case, calamar.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A cephalopod, belonging to the genus Loligo and related genera.
There are many species. They have a sack of inklike fluid which they
discharge from the siphon tube, when pursued or alarmed, in order to
confuse their enemies. Their shell is a thin horny plate, within the
flesh of back, shaped very much like a quill pen. In America they are
called squids. See Squid.

CALAMBAC
Cal"am*bac, n. Etym: [F. calambac, calambour, from Malay Kalambaq a
king of fragrant wood.] (Bot.)

Defn: A fragrant wood; agalloch.

CALAMBOUR
Cal"am*bour, n. Etym: [See Calambac.]

Defn: A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottled
color, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac;
-- used by cabinetmakers.

CALAMIFEROUS
Cal`a*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calamus reed + ferous.]

Defn: Producing reeds; reedy.

CALAMINE
Cal"a*mine, n. Etym: [F. calamine, LL. calamina, fr. L. Cabmia. See
Cadmia.] (min.)

Defn: A mineral, the hydrous silicate of zinc.

Note: The name was formerly applied to both the carbonate and
silicate of zinc each of which is valuabic as an ore; but it is now
usually restricted to the latter, the former being called
smithsonite.

CALAMINT
Cal"a*mint, n. Etym: [OE. calamint, calemente (cf. F. calament) fr.
L. calamintha, Gr. Mint.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family,
esp. the C. Nepela and C. Acinos, which are called also basil thyme.

CALAMIST
Cal"a*mist, n. Etym: [L. calamus a reed.]

Defn: One who plays upon a reed or pipe. [Obs.] Blount.

CALAMISTRATE
Cal`a*mis"trate, v. i. Etym: [L. calamistratus, curied with the
curling iron, fr. calamistrum curling iron, fr. calamus a reed.]

Defn: To curl or friz, as the hair. [Obs.] Cotgrave.

CALAMISTRATION
Cal`amis*tra"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of curling the hair. [Obs.] burton.

CALAMISTRUM
Cal`a*mis"trum, n. Etym: [L., a curling iron.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A comblike structure on the metatarsus of the hind legs of
certain spiders (Ciniflonidæ), used to curl certain fibers in the
construction of their webs.

CALAMITE
Cal"a*mite, n. Etym: [L. calamus a reed: cf. F. calamite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil plant of the coal formation, having the general form
of plants of the modern Equiseta (the Horsetail or Scouring Rush
family) but sometimes attaining the height of trees, and having the
stem more or less woody within. See Acrogen, and Asterophyllite.

CALAMITOUS
Ca*lam"i*tous, a. Etym: [L. Calamitosus; cf. F. calamiteux.]

1. Suffering calamity; wretched; miserable. [Obs.]
Ten thousands of calamitous persons. South.

2. Producing, or attended with distress and misery; making wretched;
wretched; unhappy. "This sad and calamitous condition." South. "A
calamitous prison" Milton.

Syn.
 -- Miserable; deplorable; distressful; afflictive; grievous;
baleful; disastrous; adverse; unhappy; severe; sad; unfortunate.
 -- Ca*lam"i*tous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*lam"i*tous*ness, n.

CALAMITY
Ca*lam"i*ty n.; pl. Calamities. Etym: [L. calamitas, akin to in-
columis unharmed: cf. F. calamité]

1. Any great misfortune or cause of misery; -- generally applied to
events or disasters which produce extensive evil, either to
communities or individuals.

Note: The word calamity was first derived from calamus when the corn
could not get out of the stalk. Bacon.
Strokes of calamity that scathe and scorch the soul. W. Irving.

2. A state or time of distress or misfortune; misery.
The deliberations of calamity are rarely wise. Burke.
Where'er I came I brought calamity. Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- Disaster; distress; afflicition; adversity; misfortune;
unhappiness; infelicity; mishap; mischance; misery; evil; extremity;
exigency; downfall.
 -- Calamity, Disaster, Misfortune, Mishap, Mischance. Of these
words, calamity is the strongest. It supposes a somewhat continuous
state, produced not usually by the direct agency of man, but by
natural causes, such as fire, flood, tempest, disease, etc, Disaster
denotes literally ill-starred, and is some unforeseen and distressing
event which comes suddenly upon us, as if from hostile planet.
Misfortune is often due to no specific cause; it is simply the bad
fortune of an individual; a link in the chain of events; an evil
independent of his own conduct, and not to be charged as a fault.
Mischance and mishap are misfortunes of a trivial nature, occurring
usually to individuals. "A calamity is either public or private, but
more frequently the former; a disaster is rather particular than
private; it affects things rather than persons; journey, expedition,
and military movements are often attended with disasters; misfortunes
are usually personal; they immediately affect the interests of the
individual." Crabb.

CALAMUS
Cal"a*mus, n.; pl. Calami. Etym: [L., a reed. See Halm.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The indian cane, a plant of the Palm family. It furnishes the
common rattan. See Rattan, and Dragon's blood.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Acorus (A. calamus), commonly called calamus, or
sweet flag. The root has a pungent, aromatic taste, and is used in
medicine as a stomachic; the leaves have an aromatic odor, and were
formerly used instead of rushes to strew on floors.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The horny basal portion of a feather; the barrel or quill.

CALANDO
Ca*lan"do, a. Etym: [It.]

Defn: (Mus.) Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness.

CALASH
Ca*lash", n. Etym: [F. calèche; of Slavonic origin; cf. Bohem.
kolesa, Russ. koliaska calash, koleso, kolo, wheel.]

1. A light carriage with low wheels, having a top or hood that can be
raised or lowered, seats for inside, a separate seat for the driver,
and often a movable front, so that it can be used as either an open
or a close carriage.
The baroness in a calash capable of holding herself, her two
children, and her servants. W. Irving.

2. In Canada, a two-wheeled, one-seated vehicle, with a calash top,
and the driver's seat elevated in front.

3. A hood or top of a carriage which can be thrown back at pleasure.

4. A hood, formerly worn by ladies, which could be drawn forward or
thrown back like the top of a carriage.

CALAVERAS SKULL
Ca`la*ve"ras skull.

Defn: A human skull reported, by Prof. J. D. Whitney, as found in
1886 in a Tertiary auriferous gravel deposit, lying below a bed of
black lava, in Calaveras County, California. It is regarded as very
doubtful whether the skull really belonged to the deposit in which it
was found. If it did, it indicates an unprecedented antiquity for
human beings of an advanced type.

CALAVERITE
Ca`la*ve"rite (, n. (Min.)

Defn: A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; a
telluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California.

CALCANEAL
Cal*ca"ne*al, a. (Anal.)

Defn: Pertaining to the calcaneum; as, calcaneal arteries.

CALCANEUM
Cal*ca"ne*um n.; pl. E. -neums, L. -nea. Etym: [L. the heel, fr.
calx, calcis, the heel.] (Anal.)

Defn: One of the bones of the tarsus which in man, forms the great
bone of the heel; -- called also fibulare.

CALCAR
Cal"car, n. Etym: [L. calcaria lime kiln, fr. calx, calcis, lime. See
Calx.] (Glass manuf.)

Defn: A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for the
calcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit. Ure.

CALCAR
Cal"car, n.; L. pl. Calcaria. Etym: [L., a pur, as worn on the heel,
also the spur of a cock, fr. calx, calcis, the heel.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A hollow tube or spur at the base of a petal or corolla.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A slender bony process from the ankle joint of bats, which
helps to support the posterior part of the web, in flight.

3. (Anat.)
(a) A spur, or spurlike prominence.
(b) A curved ridge in the floor of the leteral ventricle of the
brain; the calcar avis, hippocampus minor, or ergot.

CALCARATE; CALCARATED
Cal"ca*rate, Cal"ca*ra`ted, a. Etym: [LL. calcaratus, fr. L. calcar.
See 2d Calcar.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a spur, as the flower of the toadflax and larkspur;
spurred. Gray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Armed with a spur.

CALCAREO-ARGILLACEOUS
Cal*ca"re*o-ar`gil*la"ceous, a.

Defn: consisting of, or containing, calcareous and argillaceous
earths.

CALCAREO-BITUMINOUS
Cal*ca"re*o-bi*tu"mi*nous, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, lime and bitumen. Lyell.

CALCAREO-SILICEOUS
Cal*ca"re*o-si*li"ceous, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing calcareous and siliceous earths.

CALCAREOUS
Cal*ca"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. calcarius pertaining to lime. See Calx.]

Defn: Partaking of the nature ofcalcite or calcium carbonate;
consisting of, or containg, calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime.
Clcareous spar. See as Calcite.

CALCAREOUSNESS
Cal*ca"re*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being calcareous.

CALCARIFEROUS
Cal`ca*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calcarius of lime + ferous.]

Defn: Lime-yielding; calciferous

CALCARINE
Cal"ca*rine, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or situated near, the calcar of the brain.

CALCAVELLA
Cal`ca*vel"la, n.

Defn: A sweet wine from Portugal; -- so called from the district of
Carcavelhos. [Written also Calcavellos or Carcavelhos.]

CALCEATED
Cal"ce*a"ted, a. Etym: [L. calceatus, p. p. of pelceare to ahoe, fr.
catceus shoe, fr. calx, calcic, heel.]

Defn: Fitted with, or wearing, shoes. Johnson.

CALCED
Calced, a. Etym: [See Calceated.]

Defn: Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced or
barefooted; as the calced Carmelites.

CALCEDON
Cal"ce*don, n. Etym: [See Chalcedony.]

Defn: A foul vein, like chalcedony, in some precious stones.

CALCEDONIC; CALCEDONIAN
Cal`ce*don"ic, Cal`ce*do"ni*an, a.

Defn: See Chalcedonic.

CALCEIFORM
Cal"ce*i*form`, a. Etym: [L. calceus shoe + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a plipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper;
calceolate.

CALCEOLARIA
cal`ce*o*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. calceolarius shoemaker, fr.
calceolus, a dim. of calceus shoe.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plant, biought from
South America; slipperwort. It has a yellow or purple flower, often
spotted or striped, the shape of which suggests its name.

CALCEOLATE
Cal"ce*o*late, a. Etym: [See Calceolaria.]

Defn: Slipper-ahaped. See Calceiform.

CALCES
Cal"ces, n. pl.

Defn: See Calx.

CALCIC
Cal"cic, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime: cf. F. calcique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime.

CALCIFEROUS
Cal*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -
ferous.]

Defn: Bearing producing, or containing calcite, or carbonate of lime.
Calciferouse epoch (Geol.), and epoch in the American lower Silurian
system, immediately succeeding the Cambrian period. The name alludes
to the peculiar mixture of calcareous and siliceous characteristics
in many of the beds. See the Diagram under Grology.

CALCIFIC
Cal*cif"ic, a.

Defn: Calciferous. Specifically: (Zoöl.) of or pertaining to hte
portion of the which forms the eggshell in birds and reptiles.
Huxley.

CALCIFICATION
Cal`ci*fi*ca"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The process of chenge into a stony or calcareous substance by
the deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of bone
and teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue.

CALCIFIED
Cal"ci*fied, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, calcareous matter or lime salts;
calcareous.

CALCIFORM
Cal"ci*form, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -form.]

Defn: In the form of chalk or lime.

CALCIFY
Cal"ci*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Calcified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calcifying.] Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -fy.]

Defn: To make stony or calcareous by the deposit or secretion of
salts of lime.

CALCIFY
Cal"ci*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become changed into a stony or calcareous condition, in lime
is a principal ingredient, as in the formation of teeth.

CALCIGENOUS
Cal*cig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -genouse.] (Chem.)

Defn: Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance on
being oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc.

CALCIGEROUS
Cal*cig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime + -gerouse.]

Defn: Holding lime or other earthy salts; as, the calcigerous cells
of the teeth.

CALCIMINE
Cal"ci*mine, n. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime.]

Defn: A white or colored wash for the ceiling or other plastering of
a room, consisting of a mixture of clear glue, Paris white or zinc
white, and water. [Also spelt kalsomine.]

CALCIMINE
Cal"ci*mine, v. t. [imp. &p. p. Calcimined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calcimining.]

Defn: To wash or cover with calcimine; as, to calcimine walls.

CALCIMINER
Cal"ci*mi`ner, n.

Defn: One who calcimines.

CALCINABLE
Cal*cin"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be calcined; as, a calcinable fossil.

CALCINATE
Cal"ci*nate, v. i.

Defn: To calcine. [R.]

CALCINATION
Cal`ci*na"tion, n. Etym: [F. calcination.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of disintegrating a substance, or rendering
it friable by the action of heat, esp. by the expulsion of some
volatile matter, as when carbonic and acid is expelled from carbonate
of calcium in the burning of limestone in order to make lime.

2. The act or process of reducing a metal to an oxide or metallic
calx; oxidation.

CALCINATORY
Cal*cin"a*to*ry, n.

Defn: A vessel used in calcination.

CALCINE
Cal*cine", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calciden; p. pr. & vb. n. Calcining.]
Etym: [F. calciner, fr. L. calx, calcis, lime. See Calx.]

1. To reduce to a powder, or to a friable state, by the action of
heat; to expel volatile matter from by means of heat, as carbonic
acid from limestone, and thus (usually) to produce disintegration; as
to, calcine bones.

2. To oxidize, as a metal by the action of heat; to reduce to a
metallic calx.

CALCINE
Cal*cine", v. i.

Defn: To be convereted into a powder or friable substance, or into a
calx, by the action of heat. "Calcining without fusion" Newton.

CALCINER
Cal*cin"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, calcines.

CALCISPONGIAE
Cal`ci*spon"gi*æ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. calx, calcis, lime +
spongia a sponge.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of marine sponges, containing calcareous spicules. See
Porifera.

CALCITE
Cal"cite, n. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime.] (Min.)

Defn: Calcium carbonate, or carbonate of lime. It is rhombohedral in
its crystallization, and thus distinguished from aragonite. It
includes common limestone, chalk, and marble. Called also calc-spar
and calcareous spar.

Note: Argentine is a pearly lamellar variety; aphrite is foliated or
chalklike; dogtooth spar, a form in acute rhombohedral or
scalenohedral crystals; calc-sinter and calc-tufa are lose or porous
varieties formed in caverns or wet grounds from calcareous deposits;
agaric mineral is a soft, white friable variety of similar origin;
stalaclite and stalagmite are varieties formed from the drillings in
caverns. Iceland spar is a transparent variety, exhibiting the strong
double refraction of the species, and hence is called doubly
refracting spar.

CALCITRANT
Cal"ci*trant, a. Etym: [L. calcitrans, p. pr. of calcitrare to kick,
fr. calx, calcis , heel.]

Defn: Kicking. Hence: Stubborn; refractory.

CALCITRATE
Cal"ci*trate, v. i. & i. Etym: [L. calcitratus, p. p. of calcitrare.
See Calcitrant.]

Defn: To kick.

CALCITRATION
Cal`ci*tra"tion, n.

Defn: Act of kicking.

CALCIUM
Cal"ci*um, n. Etym: [NL., from L. calx, calcis, lime; cf F. calcium.
See Calx.] (Chem.)

Defn: An elementary substance; a metal which combined with oxygen
forms lime. It is of a pale yellow color, tenacious, and malleable.
It is a member of the alkaline earth group of elements. Atomic weight
40. Symbol Ca.

Note: Calcium is widely and abundantly disseminated, as in its
compounds calcium carbonate or limestone, calcium sulphate or gypsum,
calcium fluoride or fluor spar, calcium phosphate or apatite. Calcium
light, an intense light produced by the incandescence of a stick or
ball of lime in the flame of a combination of oxygen and hydrogen
gases, or of oxygen and coal gas; -- called also Drummond light.

CALCIVOROUS
Cal*civ"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. calx lime + vorare to devour.]

Defn: Eroding, or eating into, limestone.

CALCOGRAPHER
Cal*cog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who practices calcography.

CALCOGRAPHIC; CALCOGRAPHICAL
Cal`co*graph"ic, Cal`co*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to, or in the style of, calcography.

CALCOGRAPHY
Cal*cog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [L. calx, calcis, lime, chalk + -graphy.]

Defn: The art of drawing with chalk.

CALC-SINTER
Calc"-sin`ter, n. Etym: [G. kalk (L. calx, calcis) lime + E. sinter.]

Defn: See under Calcite.

CALC-SPAR
Calc"-spar`, n. Etym: [G. kalk (L. calx) lime E. spar.]

Defn: Same as Calcite.

CALC-TUFA
Calc"-tu`fa, n. Etym: [G. kalk (l. calx) lime + E. tufa.]

Defn: See under Calcite.

CALCULABLE
Cal"cu*la*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. calculable.]

Defn: That may be calculated or ascertained by calculation.

CALCULARY
Cal"cu*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. calculus a pebble, a calculus; cf
calcularius pertaining to calculation.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to calculi.

CALCULARY
Cal"cu*la*ry, n.

Defn: A congeries of little stony knots found in the pulp of the pear
and other fruits.

CALCULATE
Cal"cu*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calculater; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calculating.] Etym: [L, calculatus, p. p. of calculate, fr. calculus
a pebble, a stone used in reckoning; hence, a reckoning, fr. calx,
calcis, a stone used in gaming, limestone. See Calx.]

1. To ascertain or determine by mathematical processes, usually by
the ordinary rules of arithmetic; to reckon up; to estimate; to
compute.
A calencar exacity calculated than any othe. North.

2. To ascertain or predict by mathematical or astrological
computations the time, circumstances, or other conditions of; to
forecast or compute the character or consequences of; as, to
calculate or cast one's nativity.
A cunning man did calculate my birth. Shak.

3. To adjust for purpose; to adapt by forethought or calculation; to
fit or prepare by the adaptation of means to an end; as, to calculate
a system of laws for the government and protection of a free people.
[Religion] is . . . calculated for our benefit. Abp. Tillotson.

4. To plan; to expect; to think. [Local, U. S.]

Syn.
 -- To compute; reckon; count; estimate; rate.
 -- To Calculate, Compute. Reckon, Count. These words indicate the
means by which we arrive at a given result in regard to quantity. We
calculate with a view to obtain a certain point of knowledge; as, to
calculate an eclipse. We compute by combining given numbers, in order
to learn the grand result. We reckon and count in carrying out the
details of a computation. These words are also used in a secondary
and figurative sense. "Calculate is rather a conjection from what is,
as to what may be; computation is a rational estimate of what has
been, from what is; reckoning is a conclusive conviction, a pleasing
assurance that a thing will happen; counting indicates an
expectation. We calculate on a gain; we compute any loss sustained,
or the amount of any mischief done; we reckon on a promised pleasure;
we count the hours and minutes until the time of enjoyment arrives"
Crabb.

CALCULATE
Cal"cu*late, v. i.

Defn: To make a calculation; to forecast caonsequences; to estimate;
to compute.
The strong passions, whether good or bad, never calculate. F. W.
Robertson.

CALCULATED
Cal"cu*la`ted, p. p. & a.

1. Worked out by calculation; as calculated tables for computing
interest; ascertained or conjectured as a result of calculation; as,
the calculated place of a planet; the calculated velocity of a cannon
ball.

2. Adapted by calculation, contrivance. or forethought to accomplish
a purpose; as, to use arts calculated to deceive the people.

3. Likely to produce a certain effect, whether intended or not;
fitted; adapted; suited.
The only danger that attends multiplicity of publication is, that
some of them may be calculated to injure rather than benefit society.
Goldsmith.
The minister, on the other hand, had never gone through an experience
calculated to lead him beyond the scope of generally received laws.
Hawthorne.

CALCULATING
Cal"cu*la`ting, a.

1. Of or pertaining to mathematical calculations; performing or able
to perform mathematical calculations.

2. Given to contrivance or forethought; forecasting; scheming; as, a
cool calculating disposition. Calculating machine, a machine for the
mechanical performance of mathematical operations, for the most part
invented by Charles Babbage and G. and E. Scheutz. It computes
logarithmic and other mathematical tables of a high degree of
intricacy, imprinting the results on a leaden plate, from which a
stereotype plate is then directly made.

CALCULATING
Cal"cu*la`ting, n.

Defn: The act or process of making mathematical computations or of
estimating results.

CALCULATION
Cal`cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [OE. calculation, fr. L. calculatio; cf. OF.
calcucation.]

1. The act or process, or the result, of calculating; computation;
reckoning, estimate. "The calculation of eclipses." Nichol.
The mountain is not so his calculation makes it. Boyle.

2. An expectation based on cirumstances.
The lazy gossips of the port, Abborrent of a calculation crost, Began
to chafe as at a personal wrong. Tennyson.

CALCULATIVE
Cal"cu*la*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation.
Long habits of calculative dealings. Burke.

CALCULATOR
Cal"cu*la*tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. calculateur.]

Defn: One who computes or reckons: one who estimates or considers the
force and effect of causes, with a view to form a correct estimate of
the effects.
Ambition is no exact calculator. Burke.

CALCULATORY
Cal"cu*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. calculatorius.]

Defn: Belonging to calculation. Sherwood.

CALCULE
Cal"cule, n. Etym: [F. calcul, fr. L. calculus. See Calculus.]

Defn: Reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Howell.

CALCULE
Cal"cule, v. i.

Defn: To calculate [Obs.] Chaucer.

CALCULI
Cal"cu*li, n. pl.

Defn: See Calculus.

CALCULOUS
Cal"cu*lous, a. Etym: [L. calculosus.]

1. Of the nature of a calculus; like stone; gritty; as, a calculous
concretion. Sir T. Browne.

2. Caused, or characterized, by the presence of a calculus or
calculi; a, a calculous disorder; affected with gravel or stone; as,
a calculous person.

CALCULUS
Cal"cu*lus, n.; pl. Calculi Etym: [L, calculus. See Calculate, and
Calcule.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but most
frequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passages
connected with them; as, biliary calculi; urinary calculi, etc.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A method of computation; any process of reasoning by the use of
symbols; any branch of mathematics that may involve calculation.
Barycentric calculus, a method of treating geometry by defining a
point as the center of gravity of certain other points to which
coëfficients or weights are ascribed.
 -- Calculus of functions, that branch of mathematics which treats of
the forms of functions that shall satisfy given conditions.
 -- Calculus of operations, that branch of mathematical logic that
treats of all operations that satisfy given conditions.
 -- Calculus of probabilities, the science that treats of the
computation of the probabilities of events, or the application of
numbers to chance.
 -- Calculus of variations, a branch of mathematics in which the laws
of dependence which bind the variable quantities together are
themselves subject to change.
 -- Differential calculus, a method of investigating mathematical
questions by using the ratio of certain indefinitely small quantities
called differentials. The problems are primarily of this form: to
find how the change in some variable quantity alters at each instant
the value of a quantity dependent upon it.
 -- Exponential calculus, that part of algebra which treats of
exponents.
 -- Imaginary calculus, a method of investigating the relations of
real or imaginary quantities by the use of the imaginary symbols and
quantities of algebra.
 -- Integral calculus, a method which in the reverse of the
differential, the primary object of which is to learn from the known
ratio of the indefinitely small changes of two or more magnitudes,
the relation of the magnitudes themselves, or, in other words, from
having the differential of an algebraic expression to find the
expression itself.

CALDRON
Cal"dron, n. Etym: [OE. caldron, caudron, caudroun, OF. caudron,
chauderon, F. chaudron, an aug. of F. chaudière, LL. caldaria, fr. L.
caldarius suitable for warming, fr. caldus, calidus, warm, fr. calere
to be warm; cf. Skr. çra to boil. Cf. Chaldron, Calaric, Caudle.]

Defn: A large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron. [Written
also cauldron.] "Caldrons of boiling oil." Prescott.

CALECHE
Ca*lèche", n. Etym: [F. calèche.]

Defn: See Calash.

CALEDONIA
Cal`e*do"ni*a, n.

Defn: The ancient Latin name of Scotland; -- still used in poetry.

CALEDONIAN
Cal`e*do"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Caledonia or Scotland; Scottish; Scotch.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Caledonia or Scotland.

CALEDONITE
Ca*led"o*nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts of
Caledonia or Scotland.

CALEFACIENT
Cal`e*fa"cient, a. Etym: [L. calefaciens p. pr. of calefacere to make
warm; calere to be warm + facere to make.]

Defn: Making warm; heating. [R.]

CALEFACIENT
Cal`e*fa"cient, n.

Defn: A substance that excites warmth in the parts to which it is
applied, as mustard.

CALEFACTION
Cal`e*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. calefactio: cf. F. caléfaction.]

1. The act of warming or heating; the production of heat in a body by
the action of fire, or by communication of heat from other bodies.

2. The state of being heated.

CALEFACTIVE
Cal`e*fac"tive, a.

Defn: See Calefactory. [R.]

CALEFACTOR
Cal`e*fac"tor, n.

Defn: A heater; one who, or that which, makes hot, as a stove, etc.

CALEFACTORY
Cal`e*fac"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. calefactorius.]

Defn: Making hot; producing or communicating heat.

CALEFACTORY
Cal`e*fac"to*ry, n.

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: An apartment in a monastery, warmed and used as a sitting room.

2. A hollow sphere of metal, filled with hot water, or a chafing
dish, placed on the altar in cold weather for the priest to warm his
hands with.

CALEFY
Cal"e*fy, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calefied; p. pr. & vb. n. Calefying.]
Etym: [L. calere to be warm + -fy]

Defn: To make warm or hot.

CALEFY
Cal"e*fy, v. i.

Defn: To grow hot or warm. Sir T. Browne.

CALEMBOUR
Cal"em*bour`, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A pun.

CALENDAR
Cal"en*dar, n. Etym: [OE. kalender, calender, fr. L. kalendarium an
interest or account book (cf. F. calendrier, OF. calendier) fr. L.
calendue, kalendae, calends. See Calends.]

1. An orderly arrangement of the division of time, adapted to the
purposes of civil life, as years, months, weeks, and days; also, a
register of the year with its divisions; an almanac.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints'
days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly according
to the varying date of Easter.

3. An orderly list or enumeration of persons, things, or events; a
schedule; as, a calendar of state papers; a calendar of bills
presented in a legislative assemblly; a calendar of causes arranged
for trial in court; a calendar of a college or an academy.

Note: Shepherds of people had need know the calendars of tempests of
state. Bacon. Calendar clock, one that shows the days of the week and
month.
 -- Calendar month. See under Month.
 -- French Republican calendar. See under Vendémiaire.
 -- Gregorian calendar, Julian calendar, Perpetual calendar. See
under Gregorian, Julian, and Perpetual.

CALENDAR
Cal"en*dar, v. t. [Imp. & p. p. Calendared; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calendaring.]

Defn: To enter or write in a calendar; to register. Waterhouse.

CALENDARIAL
Cal`en*da"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar.

CALENDARY
Cal"en*da*ry, a.

Defn: Calendarial. [Obs.]

CALENDER
Cal"en*der, n. Etym: [F. calandre, LL. calendra, corrupted fr. L.
cylindrus a cylinder, Gr. Cylinider.]

1. A machine, used for the purpose of giving cloth, paper, etc., a
smooth, even, and glossy or glazed surface, by cold or hot pressure,
or for watering them and giving them a wavy appearance. It consists
of two or more cylinders revolving nearly in contact, with the
necessary apparatus for moving and regulating.

2. One who pursues the business of calendering.
My good friend the calender. Cawper.

CALENDER
Cal"en*der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Calendered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Calendering.] Etym: [Cf. F. calandrer. See Calender, n.]

Defn: To press between rollers for the purpose of making smooth and
glossy, or wavy, as woolen and silk stuffs, linens, paper, etc. Ure.

CALENDER
Cal"en*der, n. Etym: [Per. qalender.]

Defn: One of a sect or order of fantastically dressed or painted
dervishes.

CALENDOGRAPHER
Cal`en*dog"ra*pher, n. Etym: [Calendar + -graph + er.]

Defn: One who makes calendars. [R.]

CALENDRER
Cal"en*drer, n.

Defn: A person who calenders cloth; a calender.

CALENDRIC; CALENDRICAL
Ca*len"dric, Ca*len"dric*al, a.,

Defn: Of or pertaining to a calendar.

CALENDS
Cal"ends, n. pl. Etym: [OE. kalendes month, calends, AS. calend
month, fr. L. calendae; akin to calare to call, proclaim, Gr. Claim.]

Defn: The first day of each month in the ancient Roman calendar.
[Written also kalends.] The Greek calends, a time that will never
come, as the Greeks had no calends.

CALENDULA
Ca*len"du*la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. calendae calends.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of composite herbaceous plants. One species, Calendula
officinalis, is the common marigold, and was supposed to blossom on
the calends of every month, whence the name.

CALENDULIN
Ca*len"du*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A gummy or mucilaginous tasteless substance obtained from the
marigold or calendula, and analogous to bassorin.

CALENTURE
Cal"en*ture, n. Etym: [F. calenture, fr. Sp. calenture heat, fever,
fr. calentar to heat, fr. p. pr. of L. calere to be warm.] (Med.)

Defn: A name formerly given to various fevers occuring in tropics;
esp. to a form of furious delirium accompanied by fever, among
sailors, which sometimes led the affected person to imagine the sea
to be a green field, and to throw himself into it.

CALENTURE
Cal"en*ture, v. i.

Defn: To see as in the delirium of one affected with calenture.
[Poetic]
Hath fed on pageants floating through the air Or calentures in depths
of limpid flood. Wordsworth.

CALESCENCE
Ca*les"cence, n. Etym: [L. calescens, p.pr. of calescere, incho. of
calere to be warm.]

Defn: Growing warmth; increasing heat.

CALF
Calf, n.; pl. Calves. Etym: [OE. calf, kelf, AS. cealf; akin to D.
kalf, G. kalb, Icel. kalfr, Sw. kalf, Dan. kalv, Goth. kalbo; cf.
Skr. garbha fetus, young, Gr. grabh to seize, conceive, Ir. colpa,
colpach, a calf. *222.]

1. The young of the cow, or of the Bovine family of quadrupeds. Also,
the young of some other mammals, as of the elephant, rhinoceros,
hippopotamus, and whale.

2. Leather made of the skin of the calf; especially, a fine, light-
colored leather used in bookbinding; as, to bind books in calf.

3. An awkward or silly boy or young man; any silly person; a dolt.
[Colloq.]
Some silly, doting, brainless calf. Drayton.

4. A small island near a larger; as, the Calf of Man.

5. A small mass of ice set free from the submerged part of a glacier
or berg, and rising to the surface. Kane.

6. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kalfi.]

Defn: The fleshy hinder part of the leg below the knee. Calf's-foot
jelly, jelly made from the feet of calves. The gelatinous matter of
the feet is extracted by boiling, and is flavored with sugar,
essences, etc.

CALFSKIN
Calf"skin`, n.

Defn: The hide or skin of a calf; or leather made of the skin.

CALI
Ca"li, n. (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu. [Written
also Kali.]

CALIBER; CALIBRE
Cal"i*ber, Cal"ibre, n. Etym: [F. calibre, perh. fr. L. qualibra of
what pound, of what weight; hence, of what size, applied first to a
ball or bullet; cf. also Ar. qalib model, mold. Cf. Calipers,
Calivere.]

1. (Gunnery)

Defn: The diameter of the bore, as a cannon or other firearm, or of
any tube; or the weight or size of the projectile which a firearm
will carry; as, an 8 inch gun, a 12-pounder, a 44 caliber.
The caliber of empty tubes. Reid.
A battery composed of three guns of small caliber. Prescott.

Note: The caliber of firearms is expressed in various ways. Cannon
are often designated by the weight of a solid spherical shot that
will fit the bore; as, a 12-pounder; pieces of ordnance that project
shell or hollow shot are designated by the diameter of their bore;
as, a 12 inch mortar or a 14 inch shell gun; small arms are
designated by hundredths of an inch expressed decimally; as, a rifle
of .44 inch caliber.

2. The diameter of round or cylindrical body, as of a bullet or
column.

3. Fig.: Capacity or compass of mind. Burke. Caliber compasses. See
Calipers.
 -- Caliber rule, a gunner's calipers, an instrument having two
scales arranged to determine a ball's weight from its diameter, and
conversely.
 -- A ship's caliber, the weight of her armament.

CALIBRATE
Cal"i*brate, v. i.

Defn: To ascertain the caliber of, as of a thermometer tube; also,
more generally, to determine or rectify the graduation of, as of the
various standards or graduated instruments.

CALIBRATION
Cal`ibra"*tion, n.

Defn: The process of estimating the caliber a tube, as of a
thermometer tube, in order to graduate it to a scale of degrees;
also, more generally, the determination of the true value of the
spaces in any graduated instrument.

CALICE
Cal"ice, n. Etym: [See Calice.]

Defn: See Chalice.

CALICLE
Cal"i*cle, n. Etym: [L. caliculus a small cup, dim. of calicis, a
cup. Cf Calycle.] (Zoöl.)
(a) One of the small cuplike cavities, often with elevated borders,
covering the surface of most corals. Each is formed by a polyp. (b)
One of the cuplike structures inclosing the zooids of certain
hydroids. See Campanularian. [Written also calycle. See Calycle.]

CALICO
Cal"i*co, n.; pl. Calicoes. Etym: [So called because first imported
from Calicut, in the East Indies: cf. F. calicot.]

1. Plain white cloth made from cotton, but which receives distinctive
names according to quality and use, as, super calicoes, shirting
calicoes, unbleached calicoes, etc. [Eng.]
The importation of printed or stained colicoes appears to have been
coeval with the establishment of the East India Company. Beck
(Draper's Dict. ).

2. Cotton cloth printed with a figured pattern.

Note: In the United States the term calico is applied only to the
printed fabric. Calico bass (Zoöl.), an edible, fresh-water fish
(Pomoxys sparaides) of the rivers and lake of the Western United
States (esp. of the Misissippi valley.), allied to the sunfishes, and
so called from its variegated colors; -- called also calicoback,
grass bass, strawberry bass, barfish, and bitterhead.
 -- Calico printing, the art or process of impressing the figured
patterns on calico.

CALICO
Cal"i*co, a.

Defn: Made of, or having the apperance of, calico; -- often applied
to an animal, as a horse or cat, on whose body are large patches of a
color strikingly different from its main color. [Colloq. U. S.]

CALICOBACK
Cal"i*co*back`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The calico bass.
(b) An hemipterous insect (Murgantia histrionica) which injures the
cabbage and other garden plants; -- called also calico bug and
harlequin cabbage bug.

CALICULAR; CALICULATE
Ca*lic"u*lar, a. Ca*lic"u*late, a.

Defn: Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used for
calycular, calyculate.

CALID
Cal"id, a. Etym: [L. calidus, fr. calere to be hot.]

Defn: Hot; burning; ardent. [Obs.] Bailey.

CALIDITY
Ca*lid"i*ty, n.

Defn: Heat. [Obs.]

CALIDUCT
Cal"i*duct, n. Etym: [See Caloriduct.]

Defn: A pipe or duct used to convey hot air or steam.
Subterranean caliducts have been introduced. Evelyn.

CALIF; CALIFATE
Ca"lif, n., Cal"i*fate, n., etc.

Defn: Same as Caliph, Caliphate, etc.

CALIFORNIA JACK
Cal`i*for"ni*a jack".

Defn: A game at cards, a modification of seven-up, or all fours.

CALIFORNIAN
Cal`i*for"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to California.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of California.

CALIGATION
Cal`i*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. caligatio, fr. caligare to emit vapor, to
be dark, from caligo mist, darkness.]

Defn: Dimness; cloudiness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

CALIGINOSITY
Ca*lig`i*nos"ity, n. Etym: [L. caliginosus dark. See Caligation.]

Defn: Darkness. [R.] G. Eliot.

CALIGINOUS
Ca*lig"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. caliginosus; cf. F. caligineux.]

Defn: Affected with darkness or dimness; dark; obscure. [R.] Blount.
The caliginous regions of the air. Hallywell.
-- Ca*lig"i*nous*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*lig"i*nous*ness, n.