

CANNEL COAL
Can"nel coal`. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. ndle coal.]

Defn: A kind of mineral coal of a black color, sufficiently hard and
solid to be cut and polished. It burns readily, with a clear, yellow
flame, and on this account has been used as a substitute for candles.

CANNELE
Can`ne*lé", n. [F., pop., fluted.] (Textiles)

Defn: A style of interweaving giving to fabrics a channeled or fluted
effect; also, a fabric woven so as to have this effect; a rep.

CANNELURE
Can"ne*lure (kan"ne*lur), n. [F., fr. canneler to groove.] (Mil.)

Defn: A groove in any cylinder; specif., a groove around the cylinder
of an elongated bullet for small arms to contain a lubricant, or
around the rotating band of a gun projectile to lessen the resistance
offered to the rifling. Also, a groove around the base of a
cartridge, where the extractor takes hold. --Can"ne*lured (#), a.

CANNERY
Can"ner*y, n.

Defn: A place where the business of canning fruit, meat, etc., is
carried on. [U. S.]

CANNIBAL
Can"ni*bal, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cannibale. Columbus, in a letter to the
Spanish monarchs written in Oct., 1498, mentions that the people of
Hayti lived in great fear of the Caribales (equivalent to E.
Caribbees.), the inhabitants of the smaller Antilles; which form of
the name was afterward changed into NL. Canibales, in order to
express more forcibly their character by a word intelligible through
a Latin root "propter rabiem caninam anthropophagorum gentis." The
Caribbees call themselves, in their own language. Calinago, Carinago,
Calliponam, and, abbreviated, Calina, signifying a brave, from which
Columbus formed his Caribales.]

Defn: A human being that eats human flesh; hence, any that devours
its own kind. Darwin.

CANNIBAL
Can"ni*bal, a.

Defn: Relating to cannibals or cannibalism. "Cannibal terror." Burke.

CANNIBALISM
Can"ni*bal*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cannibalisme.]

Defn: The act or practice of eating human flesh by mankind. Hence;
Murderous cruelty; barbarity. Berke.

CANNIBALLY
Can"ni*bal*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of cannibal. "An he had been cannibally given."
Shak.

CANNIKIN
Can"ni*kin, n. Etym: [Can + -kin.]

Defn: A small can or drinking vessel.

CANNILY
Can"ni*ly, adv.

Defn: In a canny manner. [N. of Eng. & Scot.]

CANNINESS
Can"ni*ness, n.

Defn: Caution; crafty management. [N. of Eng. & Scot.]

CANNON
Can"non, n.; pl.Cannons, collectively Cannon. Etym: [F. cannon, fr.
L. canna reed, pipe, tube. See Cane.]

1. A great gun; a piece of ordnance or artillery; a firearm for
discharging heavy shot with great force.

Note: Cannons are made of various materials, as iron, brass, bronze,
and steel, and of various sizes and shapes with respect to the
special service for which they are intended, as intended, as siege,
seacoast, naval, field, or mountain, guns. They always aproach more
or less nearly to a cylindrical from, being usually thicker toward
the breech than at the muzzle. Formerly they were cast hollow,
afterwards they were cast, solid, and bored out. The cannon now most
in use for the armament of war vessels and for seacoast defense
consists of a forged steel tube reinforced with massive steel rings
shrunk upon it. Howitzers and mortars are sometimes called cannon.
See Gun.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A hollow cylindrical piece carried by a revolving shaft, on
which it may, however, revolve independently.

3. (Printing.)

Defn: A kind of type. See Canon. Cannon ball, strictly, a round solid
missile of stone or iron made to be fired from a cannon, but now
often applied to a missile of any shape, whether solid or hollow,
made for cannon. Elongated and cylindrical missiles are sometimes
called bolts; hollow ones charged with explosives are properly called
shells.
 -- Cannon bullet, a cannon ball. [Obs.] -- Cannon cracker, a fire
cracker of large size.
 -- Cannon lock, a device for firing a cannon by a percussion primer.
 -- Cannon metal. See Gun Metal.
 -- Cannon pinion, the pinion on the minute hand arbor of a watch or
clock, which drives the hand but permits it to be moved in setting.
 -- Cannon proof, impenetrable by cannon balls.
 -- Cannon shot. (a) A cannon ball. (b) The range of a cannon.

CANNON
Can"non, n. & v. (Billiards)

Defn: See Carom. [Eng.]

CANNONADE
Can"non*ade", n. Etym: [F. Canonnade; cf. It. cannanata.]

1. The act of discharging cannon and throwing ball, shell, etc., for
the purpose of destroying an army, or battering a town, ship, or
fort; -- usually, an attack of some continuance.
A furious cannonade was kept up from the whole circle of batteries on
the devoted towm. Prescott.

2. Fig.; A loud noise like a cannonade; a booming.
Blue Walden rolls its cannonade. Ewerson.

CANNONADE
Can`non*ade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cannonade; p. pr. & vb. n.
Cannonading.]

Defn: To attack with heavy artillery; to batter with cannon shot.

CANNONADE
Can`non*ade", v. i.

Defn: To discharge cannon; as, the army cannonaded all day.

CANNON BONE
Can"non bone. (Anat.)

Defn: See Canon Bone.

CANNONED
Can"noned (, a.

Defn: Furnished with cannon. [Poetic] "Gilbralter's cannoned steep."
M. Arnold.

CANNONEER; CANNONIER
Can`non*eer", Can`non*ier", n. Etym: [F. canonnier.]

Defn: A man who manages, or fires, cannon.

CANNONERING
Can`non*er"ing, n.

Defn: The use of cannon. Burke.

CANNONRY
Can"non*ry, n.

Defn: Cannon, collectively; artillery.
The ringing of bells and roaring of cannonry proclaimed his course
through the country. W. Irving.

CANNOT
Can"not. Etym: [Can to be able _ -not.]

Defn: Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two.

CANNULA
Can"nu*la, n. Etym: [L. cannula a small tube of dim. of canna a reed,
tube.] (Surg.)

Defn: A small tube of metal, wood, or India rubber, used for various
purposes, esp. for injecting or withdrawing fluids. It is usually
associated with a trocar. [Written also canula.]

CANNULAR
Can"nu*lar, a.

Defn: Having the form of a tube; tubular. [Written also canular.]

CANNULATED
Can"nu*la`ted, a.

Defn: Hollow; affording a passage through its interior length for
wire, thread, etc.; as, a cannulated (suture) needle. [Written also
canulated.]

CANNY; CANNEI
Can"ny, Can"nei, a. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kenn skilled, learned, or E.
canny. Cf. Kenn.] [North of Eng. & Scot.]

1. Artful; cunning; shrewd; wary.

2. Skillful; knowing; capable. Sir W. Scott.

3. Cautious; prudent; safe.. Ramsay.

4. Having pleasing of useful qualities; gentle. Burns.

5. Reputed to have magical powers. Sir W. Scott. No canny, not safe,
not fortunate; unpropitious. [Scot.]

CANOE
Ca*noe", n.; pl. Canoes. Etym: [Sp. canoa, fr. Caribbean canáoa.]

1. A boat used by rude nations, formed of trunk of a tree, excavated,
by cutting of burning, into a suitable shape. It is propelled by a
paddle or paddles, or sometimes by sail, and has no rudder.
Others devised the boat of one tree, called the canoe. Raleigh.

2. A boat made of bark or skins, used by savages.
A birch canoe, with paddles, rising, falling, on the water.
Longfellow.

3. A light pleasure boat, especially designed for use by one who goes
alone upon long excursions, including portage. It it propelled by a
paddle, or by a small sail attached to a temporary mast.

CANOE
Ca*noe", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Canoed p. pr. & vb. n. Canoeing (.]

Defn: To manage a canoe, or voyage in a canoe.

CANOEING
Ca*noe"ing n.

Defn: The act or art of using a canoe.

CANOEIST
Ca*noe"ist, n.

Defn: A canoeman.

CANOEMAN
Ca*noe"man, n.; pl. Canoemen.

Defn: One who uses a canoe; one who travels in a canoe.
Cabins and clearing greeted the eye of the passing canoeman. Parkman.

CANON
Can"on, n. Etym: [OE. canon, canoun, AS. canon rule (cf. F. canon,
LL. canon, and, for sense 7, F. chanoine, LL. canonicus), fr. L.
canon a measuring line, rule, model, fr. Gr. Cane, and cf.
Canonical.]

1. A law or rule.
Or that the Everlasting had not fixed His canon 'gainst self-
slaughter. Shak.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A law, or rule of doctrine or discipline, enacted by a council
and confirmed by the pope or the sovereign; a decision, regulation,
code, or constitution made by ecclesiastical authority.
Various canons which were made in councils held in the second centry.
Hock.

3. The collection of books received as genuine Holy Scriptures,
called the sacred canon, or general rule of moral and religious duty,
given by inspiration; the Bible; also, any one of the canonical
Scriptures. See Canonical books, under Canonical, a.

4. In monasteries, a book containing the rules of a religious order.

5. A catalogue of saints sckowledged and canonized in the Roman
Catholic Church.

6. A member of a cathedral chapter; a person who possesses a prebend
in a cathedral or collegiate church.

7. (Mus.)

Defn: A musical composition in which the voice begin one after
another, at regular intervals, succesively taking up the same
subject. It either winds up with a coda (tailpiece), or, as each
voice finishes, commences anew, thus forming a perpetual fugue or
round. It is the strictest form of imitation. See Imitation.

8. (Print.)

Defn: The largest size of type having a specific name; -- so called
from having been used for printing the canons of the church.

9. The part of a bell by which it is suspended; -- called also ear
and shank.

Note: [See Illust. of Bell.] Knight.

10. (Billiards)

Defn: See Carom. Apostolical canons. See under Apostolical.
 -- Augustinian canons, Black canons. See under Augustinian.
 -- Canon capitular, Canon residentiary, a resident member of a
cathedral chapter (during a part or the whole of the year).
 -- Canon law. See under Law.
 -- Canon of the Mass (R. C. Ch.), that part of the mass, following
the Sanctus, which never changes.
 -- Honorary canon, a canon who neither lived in a monastery, nor
kept the canonical hours.
 -- Minor canon (Ch. of Eng.), one who has been admitted to a
chapter, but has not yet received a prebend.
 -- Regular canon (R. C. Ch.), one who lived in a conventual
community and follower the rule of St. Austin; a Black canon.
 -- Secular canon (R. C. Ch.), one who did not live in a monastery,
but kept the hours.

CANON; CANYON
Ca*ñon", n. Etym: [Sp., a tube or hollow, fr. caña reed, fr. L.
canna. See Cane.]

Defn: A deep gorge, ravine, or gulch, between high and steep banks,
worn by water courses. [Mexico & Western U. S.]

CANON BIT
Can"on bit`. Etym: [F. canon, fr. L. canon a rule.]

Defn: That part of a bit which is put in a horse's mouth.

CANON BONE
Can"on bone`. Etym: [F. canon, fr. L. canon a rule. See canon.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The shank bone, or great bone above the fetlock, in the fore
and hind legs of the horse and allied animals, corresponding to the
middle metacarpal or metatarsal bone of most mammals. See Horse.

CANONESS
Can"on*ess, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. canonissa.]

Defn: A woman who holds a canonry in a conventual chapter. Regular
canoness, one bound by the poverty, and observing a strict rule of
life.
 -- Secular canoness, one allowed to hold private property, and bound
only by vows of chastity and obedience so long as she chose to remain
in the chapter.

CANONIC; CANNONICAL
Ca*non"ic, Can*non"ic*al, a Etym: [L. cannonicus, LL. canonicalis,
fr. L. canon: cf. F. canonique. See canon.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a canon; established by, or according to a
, canon or canons. "The oath of canonical obedience." Hallam.
Canonical books, or Canonical Scriptures, those books which are
declared by the canons of the church to be of divine inspiration; --
called collectively the canon. The Roman Catolic Church holds as
canonical several books which Protestants reject as apocryphal.
 -- Canonical epistles, an appellation given to the epistles called
also general or catholic. See Catholic epistles, under Canholic.
 -- Canonical form (Math.), the simples or most symmetrical form to
which all functions of the same class can be reduced without lose of
generality.
 -- Canonical hours, certain stated times of the day, fixed by
ecclesiastical laws, and appropriated to the offices of prayer and
devotion; also, certain portions of the Breviary, to be used at
stated hours of the day. In England, this name is also given to the
hours from 8 a. m. to 3 p. m. (formerly 8 a. m. to 12 m.) before and
after which marriage can not be legally performed in any parish
church.
 -- Canonical letters, letters of several kinds, formerly given by a
dishop to traveling clergymam or laymen, to show that they were
entitled to receive the cammunion, and to distinguish them from
heretics.
 -- Canonical life, the method or rule of living prescribed by the
ancient cleargy who lived in community; a course of living prescribed
for the clergy, less rigid that the monastic, and more restrained
that the secular.
 -- Canonical obedience, submission to the canons of a canons of a
church, especially the submission of the inferior cleargy to their
bishops, and of other religious orders to their supriors.
 -- Canonical punishments, such as the church may inflict, as
excommunication, degradation, penance, etc.
 -- Canonical sins (Anc. Church.), those for which capital punishment
or puplic penance decreed by the canon was inflicted, as idolatry,
murder, adultery, heresy.

CANONICALLY
Ca*non"ic*al*ly, adv. In a canonical manner

Defn: ; according to the canons.

CANONICALNESS
Ca*non"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being canonical; canonicity. Bp. Burnet.

CANONICALS
Ca*non"ic*als, n. pl.

Defn: The dress prescribed by canon to be worn by a clergyman when
oficiating. Sometimes, any distinctive professional dress. Full
canonicals, the complete costume of an officiating clergyman or
ecclesiastic.

CANONICATE
Ca*non"i*cate, n. Etym: [LL. canonucatus canonical: cf. F.
canonicat.]

Defn: The office of a canon; a canonry.

CANONICITY
Can`on*ic"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. canonicité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being canonical; agreement with the
canon.

CANONIST
Can"on*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. canoniste.]

Defn: A professor of canon law; one skilled in the knowledge and
practice of ecclesiastical law. South.

CANONISTIC
Can`on*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a canonist. "This canonistic exposition."
Milton.

CANONIZATION
Can`on*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [F. canonisation.]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The final process or decree (following beatifacation) by which
the name of a deceased person is placed in the catalogue (canon) of
saints and commended to perpetual veneration and invocation.
Canonization of saints was not known to the Christian church titl
toward the middle of the tenth century. Hoock.

2. The state of being canonized or sainted.

CANONIZE
Can"on*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Canonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Canonizing.] Etym: [F. canoniser or LL. canonizare, fr. L. canon..
See Canon.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: To declare (a deceased person) a saint; to put in the catalogue
of saints; as, Thomas a Becket was canonized.

2. To glorify; to exalt to the highest honor.
Fame in time to come canonize us. Shak.

2. To rate as inspired; to include in the canon.[R.]

CANONRY
Can"on*ry, n. pl. Canonries (.

Defn: A benefice or prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church; a
right to a place in chapter and to a portion of its revenues; the
dignity or emoluments of a canon.

CANONSHIP
Can"on*ship, a.

Defn: Of pertaining to Canopus in egypt; as, the Canopic vases, used
in embalming.

CANOPUS
Ca*no"pus, n. Etym: [L. Canopus, fr. Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: A star of the first magnitude in the southern constellation
Argo.

CANOPY
Can"o*py, n.; pl. Canopies. Etym: [Oe. canopie, F. canopésofa, Of
canopée, canopeu, canopieu, canopy, vail, pavilion (cf. It.
canepècanopy, sofa), LL. canopeum a bed with mosquito curtains, fr.
Gr. Cone, and Optic.]

1. A covering fixed over a bed, dais, or the like, or carried on
poles over an exalted personage or a sacred object, etc. chiefly as a
mark of honor. "Golden canoniec and beds of state." Dryden.

2. (Arch.)
(a) An ornamental projection, over a door, window, niche, etc.
(b) Also, a roofike covering, supported on pilars over an altar, a
statue, a fountain, etc.

CANOPY
Can"o*py, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Canopes; p. pr. & vb. n. Canopying.]

Defn: To cover with, or as with, a canopy. "A bank with ivy
canopied." Milton.

CANOROUS
Ca*no"rous, a. Etym: [L. canorus, from nor melody, fr. canere to
sing.]

Defn: Melodious; musical. "Birds that are most canorous." Sir T.
Browne.
A long, lound, and canorous peal of laughter. De Quincey.

CANOROUSNESS
Ca*no"rous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being musical.
He chooses his language for its rich canorousness. Lowell.

CANSTICK
Can"stick`, n.

Defn: Candlestick. [Obs.] Shak.

CANT
Cant, n. Etym: [OF., edge, angle, prof. from L. canthus the iron ring
round a carriage wheel, a wheel, Gr. cant the stake or tire of a
wheel. Cf. Canthus, Canton, Cantle.]

1. A corner; angle; niche. [Obs.]
The first and principal person in the temple was Irene, or Peace; she
was placed aloft in a cant. B. Jonson.

2. An outer or external angle.

3. An inclination from a horizontal or vertical line; a slope or
bevel; a titl. Totten.

4. A sudden thrust, push, kick, or other impulse, producing a bias or
change of direction; also, the bias or turn so give; as, to give a
ball a cant.

5. (Coopering)

Defn: A segment forming a side piece in the head of a cask. Knight.

6. (Mech.)

Defn: A segment of he rim of a wooden cogwheel. Knight.

7. (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of wood laid upon athe deck of a vessel to support the
bulkneads. Cant frames, Cant timbers (Naut.), timber at the two ends
of a ship, rising obliquely from the keel.

CANT
Cant, v. t. [imp & p. p. Canted; p. pr. & vb. N. Canting.]

1. To incline; to set at an angle; to titl over; to tip upon the
edge; as, to cant a cask; to cant a ship.

2. To give a sudden turn or new direction to; as, to cant round a
stick of timber; to cant a football.

3. To cut off an angle from, as from a square piece of timber, or
from the head of a bolt.

CANT
Cant, n. Etym: [Prob. from OF. cant, F. chant, singing, in allusion
to the singing or whining tine of voice used by beggars, fr. L.
cantus. See Chant.]

1. An affected, singsong mode of speaking.

2. The idioms and peculiarities of speech in any sect, class, or
occupation. Goldsmith.
The cant of any profession. Dryden.

3. The use of religious phraseology without understanding or
sincerity; empty, solemn speech, implying what is not felt;
hypocrisy.
They shall hear no cant fromF. W. Robertson

4. Vulgar jargon; slang; the secret language spoker by gipsies,
thieves. tramps, or beggars.

CANT
Cant, a.

Defn: Of the nature of cant; affected; vulgar.
To introduce and multiply cant words in the most ruinous corruption
in any language. Swift.

CANT
Cant, v. i.

1. To speak in a whining voice, or an affected, sinsong tone.

2. To make whining pretensions to goodness; to talk with an
affectation of religion, philanthropy, etc.; to practice hypocrisy;
as, a canting fanatic.
The rankest rogue that ever canted. Beau. & Fl.

3. To use pretentious language, barbarous jargon, or technical
termes; to talk with an affectation of learning.
The doctor here, When he discqurseth of dissection, Of vena cava and
of vena porta, The meseræum and the mesentericum, What does he else
but cant. B. Jonson
That uncouth affected garb of speech, or canting hanguage, if I may
so call it. Bp. Sanderson.

CANT
Cant, n. Etym: [Prob. from OF. cant, equiv. to L. quantum; cf. F.
encan, fr. L. in quantum, i.e. "for how much"]

Defn: A all for bidders at a public sale; an auction. "To sell their
leases by cant." Swift.

CANT
Cant, v. t.

Defn: to sell by auction, or bid a price at a sale by auction.
[Archaic] Swift.

CAN'T
Can't.

Defn: A colloquial contraction for can not.

CANTAB
Can"tab, n. Etym: [Abbreviated from Cantabrigian.]

Defn: A Cantabrigian. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott.

CANTABILE
Can*ta"bi*le, a. Etym: [It., cantare to sing.] (Mus.)

Defn: In a melodious, flowing style; in a singing style, as opposed
to bravura, recitativo, or parlando.

CANTABILE
Can*ta"bi*le, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A piece or pessage, whether vocal or instrumental, pecuilarly
adapted to singing; -- sometimes called cantilena.

CANTABRIAN
Can*ta"bri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cantabria on the Bay of Biscay in Spain.

CANTABRIGIAN
Can`ta*brig"i*an, n.

Defn: A native or resident of Cambridge; esp. a student or graduate
of the university of Cambridge, England.

CANTALEVER
Can"ta*lev`er, n. Etym: [Can an extermal angle + lever a supported of
the roof timber of a house.] Etym: [Written also cantaliver and
cantilever.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A bracket to support a balcony, a cornice, or the like.

2. (Engin.)

Defn: A projecting beam, truss, or bridge unsupported at the outer
end; one which overhangs. Cantalever bridge, a bridge in which the
principle of the cantalever is applied. It is usually a trussed
bridge, composed of two portions reaching out from opposite banks,
and supported near the middle of their own length on piers which they
overhang, thus forming cantalevers which meet over the space to be
spanned or sustain a third portion, to complete the connection.

CANTALOUPE
Can"ta*loupe, n. Etym: [F. cantaloup, It. cantalupo, so called from
the caste of Cantalupo, in the Marca d'Ancona, in Italy, where they
were first grown in Europe, from seed said to have been imported from
Armenia.]

Defn: A muskmelon of several varieties, having when mature, a
yellowish skin, and flesh of a reddish orange color. [Written also
cantaleup.]

CANTANKEROUS
Can*tan"ker*ous, a.

Defn: Perverse; contentious; ugly; malicious. [Colloq.] --
Can*tan"ker*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Can*tan"ker*ous*ness, n.
The cantankerous old maiden aunt. Theckeray.

CANTAR; CANTARRO
Can"tar, Can*tar"ro, n. Etym: [It. cantaro (in sense 1), Sp. cantaro
(in sense 2).]

1. A weight used in southern Europe and East for heavy articles. It
varies in different localities; thus, at Rome it is nearly 75 pounds,
in Sardinia nearly 94 pounds, in Cairo it is 95 pounds, in Syria
about 503 pounds.

2. A liquid measure in Spain, ranging from two and a half to four
gallons. Simmonds.

CANTATA
Can*ta"ta, n. Etym: [It., fr. cantare to sing, fr. L. cantare intens
of canere to sing.] (Mus.)

Defn: A poem set to music; a musical composition comprising choruses,
solos, interludes, etc., arranged in a somewhat dramatic manner;
originally, a composition for a single noise, consisting of both
recitative and melody.

CANTATION
Can*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. cantatio.]

Defn: A singing. [Obs.] Blount.

CANTATORY
Cant"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Caontaining cant or affectation; whining; singing. [R.]

CANTATRICE
Can`ta*tri"ce, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A female professional singer.

CANTED
Cant"ed, a. Etym: [From 2d Cant.]

1. Having angles; as, a six canted bolt head; a canted window. Canted
column (Arch.), a column polygonal in plan.

2. Inclined at an angle to something else; tipped; sloping.

CANTEEN
Can*teen", n. Etym: [F. cantine bottle case, canteen (cf. Sp. & It.
cantina cellar, bottle case), either contr. fr. It. canovettina, dim.
of canova cellar, or, more likely, fr. OF. cant. corner, It. & Sp.
canto. See 1st Cant.] (Mil.)

1. A vessel used by soldiers for carrying water, liquor, or other
drink. [Written also cantine..]

Note: In the English service the canteen is made of wood and holds
three pints; in the United States it is usually a tin flask.

2. The sulter's shop in a garrison; also, a chest containing culinary
and other vessels for officers.

CANTEL
Can"tel, n.

Defn: See Cantle.

CANTER
Can"ter, n. Etym: [An abbreviation of Caner bury. See Canterbury
gallop, under Canterbury.]

1. A moderate and easy gallop adapted to pleasure riding.

Note: The canter is a thoroughly artificial pace, at first extremely
tiring to the horse, and generally only to be produced in him by the
restraint of a powerful bit, which compels him to throw a great part
of his weight on his haunches . . . There is so great a variety in
the mode adopted by different horses for performing the canter, that
no single description will suffice, nor indeed is it easy . . . to
define any one of them. J. H. Walsh.

2. A rapid or easy passing over.
A rapid canter in the Times over all the topics. Sir J. Stephen.

CANTER
Can"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cantered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cantering.]

Defn: To move in a canter.

CANTER
Can"ter, v. t.

Defn: To cause, as a horse, to go at a canter; to ride (a horse) at a
canter.

CANTER
Cant"er, n.

1. One who cants or whines; a beggar.

2. One who makes hypocritical pretensions to goodness; one who uses
canting language.
The day when he was a canter and a rebel. Macaulay.

CANTERBURY
Can"ter*bur*y, n.

1. A city in England, giving its name various articles. It is the
seat of the Archbishop of Canterbury (primate of all England), and
contains the shrine of Thomas à Becket, to which pilgrimages were
formerly made.

2. A stand with divisions in it for holding music, loose papers, etc.
Canterbury ball (Bot.), a species of Campanula of several varietes,
cultivated for its handsome bell-shaped flowers.
 -- Canterbury gallop, a gentle gallop such as was used by pilgrims
riding, to Canterbury; a canter.
 -- Canterbury table, one of the tales which Chaucer puts into the
mouths of certain pilgrims to Canterbury. Hence, any tale told by
travelers pass away the time.

CANTHARIDAL
Can*thar"*i*dal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cantharides or made of cantharides; as,
cantharidal plaster.

CANTHARIDES
Can*thar"i*des, n. pl.

Defn: See cantharis.

CANTHARIDIN
Can*thar"i*din, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The active principe of the cantharis, or Spanish fly, a
volatile, acrid, bitter solid, crystallizing in four-sided prisms.

CANTHARIS
Can"tha*ris, n.; pl. Cantharides. Etym: [L., a kind of beetle, esp.
the Spanish fly, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beetle (Lytta, or Cantharis, vesicatoria), having an
elongated cylindrical body of a brilliant green color, and a nauseous
odor; the blister fly or blister beetle, of the apothecary; -- also
called Spanish fly. Many other species of Lytta, used for the same
purpose, take the same name. See Blister beetle, under Blister. The
plural form in usually applied to the dried insects used in medicine.

CANT HOOK
Cant" hook`.

Defn: A wooden lever with a movable iron hook. hear the end; -- used
for canting or turning over heavy logs, etc. [U. S.] Bartlett.

CANTHOPLASTY
Can"tho*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of forming a new canthus, when one has been
destroyed by injury or disease.

CANTHUS
Can"thus, n.; pl. Canthi. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The corner where the upper and under eyelids meet on each side
of the eye.

CANTICLE
Can"ti*cle, n.; pl. Canticles. Etym: [L. canticulum a little song,
dim. of canticum song, fr. cantus a singing, fr. coner to sing. See
Chant.]

1. A song; esp. a little song or hymn. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. pl.

Defn: The Song of Songs or Song of Solomon, one of the books of the
Old Testament.

3. A canto or division of a poem [Obs.] Spenser.

4. A psalm, hymn, or passage from the Bible, arranged for chanting in
church service.

CANTICOY
Can"ti*coy, n. Etym: [Of American Indian origin.]

Defn: A social gathering; usually, one for dancing.

CANTILE
Can"tile, v. i.

Defn: Same as Cantle, v. t.

CANTILENA
Can`ti*le"na, n. Etym: [It. & L.] (Mus.)

Defn: See Cantabile.

CANTILEVER
Can"ti*lev`er, n.

Defn: Same as Cantalever.

CANTILLATE
Can"til*late, v. i. Etym: [L. cantillatus, p. p. of cantillare to
sing low, dim. of cantare. See Cantata.]

Defn: To chant; to recite with musical tones. M. Stuart.

CANTILLATION
Can`til*la"tion, n.

Defn: A chanting; recitation or reading with musical modulations.

CANTINE
Can*tine", n.

Defn: See Canteen.

CANTING
Cant"ing, a.

Defn: Speaking in a whining tone of voice; using technical or
religious terms affectedly; affectedly pious; as, a canting rogue; a
canting tone. - Cant"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Cant"ing*ness, n. Canting arms, Canting heraldry (Her.), bearings
in the nature of a rebus alluding to the name of the bearer. Thus,
the Castletons bear three castles, and Pope Adrian IV. (Nicholas
Breakspeare) bore a broken spear.

CANTING
Cant"ing, n.

Defn: The use of cant; hypocrisy.

CANTINIERE
Can`ti*niere", n. Etym: [F., fr. cantine a sutler's shop, canteen.]
(Mil)

Defn: A woman who carries a canteen for soldiers; a vivandière.

CANTION
Can"tion, n. Etym: [L. cantio, from canere to sing.]

Defn: A song or verses. [Obs.] Spenser.

CANTLE
Can"tle, n. Etym: [OF. cantel, chantel, corner, side, piece, F.
chanteau a piece cut from a larger piece, dim. of OF. cant edge,
corner. See 1st Cant.]

1. A corner or edge of anything; a piece; a fragment; a part. "In one
cantle of his law." Milton.
Cuts me from the best of all my land A huge half moon, a monstrous
cantle out. Shak.

2. The upwardly projecting rear part of saddle, opposite to the
pommel. [Written also cante.]

CANTLE
Can"tle, v. t.

Defn: To cut in pieces; to cut out from. [Obs.] [Written also
cantile.]

CANTLET
Cant"let, n. Etym: [Dim. of cantle.]

Defn: A piece; a fragment; a corner. Dryden.

CANTO
Can"to, n.; pl. Cantos. Etym: [It. canto, fr. L. cantus singing,
song. See Chant.]

1. One of the chief divisions of a long poem; a book.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The highest vocal part; the air or melody in choral music;
anciently the tenor, now the soprano. Canto fermo ( Etym: [It.]
(Mus.), the plain ecclesiastical chant in cathedral service; the
plain song.

CANTON
Can"ton, n.

Defn: A song or canto [Obs.]
Write loyal cantons of contemned love. Shak.

CANTON
Can"ton, n. Etym: [F. canton, augm. of OF. cant edge, corner. See 1st
Cant.]

1. A small portion; a division; a compartment.
That little canton of land called the "English pale" Davies.
There is another piece of Holbein's, . . . in which, in six several
cantons, the several parts of our Savior's passion are represented.
Bp. Burnet.

2. A small community or clan.

3. A small territorial district; esp. one of the twenty-two
independent states which form the Swiss federal republic; in France,
a subdivision of an arrondissement. See Arrondissement.

4. (Her.)

Defn: A division of a shield occupying one third part of the chief,
usually on the dexter side, formed by a perpendicular line from the
top of the shield, meeting a horizontal line from the side.
The king gave us the arms of England to be borne in a canton in our
arms. Evelyn.

CANTON
Can"ton, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cantoned ; p. pr. & vb. n. Cantoning.]
Etym: [Cf. F.cantonner.]

1. To divide into small parts or districts; to mark off or separate,
as a distinct portion or division.
They canton out themselves a little Goshen in the intellectual world.
Locke.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: To allot separate quarters to, as to different parts or
divisions of an army or body of troops.

CANTONAL
Can"ton*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a canton or cantons; of the nature of a
canton.

CANTON CRAPE
Can"ton crape".

Defn: A soft, white or colored silk fabric, of a gauzy texture and
wavy appearance, used for ladies' scarfs, shawls, bonnet trimmings,
etc.; -- called also Oriental crape. De Colange.

CANTONED
Can"toned, a.

1. (Her.)

Defn: Having a charge in each of the four corners; -- said of a cross
on a shield, and also of the shield itself.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Having the angles marked by, or decorated with, projecting
moldings or small columns; as, a cantoned pier or pilaster.

CANTON FLANNEL
Can"ton flan"nel.

Defn: See Cotton flannel.

CANTONIZE
Can"ton*ize, v. i.

Defn: To divide into cantons or small districts.

CANTONMENT
Can"ton*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cantonnement.]

Defn: A town or village, or part of a town or village, assigned to a
body of troops for quarters; temporary shelter or place of rest for
an army; quarters.

Note: When troops are sheltered in huts or quartered in the houses of
the people during any suspension of hostilities, they are said to be
in cantonment, or to be cantoned. In India, permanent military
stations, or military towns, are termed cantonments.

CANTOON
Can*toon", n.

Defn: A cotton stuff showing a fine cord on one side and a satiny
surface on the other.

CANTOR
Can"tor, n. Etym: [L., a singer, fr. caner to sing.]

Defn: A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor.
The cantor of the church intones the Te Deum. Milman.

CANTORAL
Can"tor*al, a.

Defn: Of or belonging to a cantor. Cantoral staff, the official staff
or baton of a cantor or precentor, with which time is marked for the
singers.

CANTORIS
Can*to"ris, a. Etym: [L., lit., of the cantor, gen. of cantor.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cantor; as, the cantoris side of a choir;
a cantoris stall. Shipley.

CANTRAP; CANTRIP
Can"trap, Can"trip, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. gandar, ODan. & OSw. gan,
witchcraft, and E. trap a snare, tramp.]

Defn: A charm; an incantation; a shell; a trick; adroit mischief.
[Written also cantraip.] [Scot.]

CANTRED; CANTREF
Can"tred, Can"tref, n. Etym: [W. cantref; cant hundred + tref
dwelling place, village.]

Defn: A district comprising a hundred villages, as in Wales. [Written
also kantry.]

CANTY
Can"ty, a.

Defn: Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry. "The canty dame."
Wordsworth [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
Contented with little, and canty with mair. Burns.

CANUCK
Ca*nuck", n.

1. A Canadian. [Slang]

2. A small or medium-sized hardy horse, common in Canada. [Colloq.]

CANULA; CANULAR; CANULATED
Can"u*la, n., Can"u*lar, a., Can"u*la`ted, a.

Defn: See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated.

CANVAS
Can"vas, n. Etym: [OE. canvas, canevas, F. canevas, LL. canabacius
hempen cloth, canvas, L. cannabis hemp, fr. G. Hemp.]

1. A strong cloth made of hemp, flax, or cotton; -- used for tents,
sails, etc.
By glimmering lanes and walls of canvas led. Tennyson.

2.
(a) A coarse cloth so woven as to form regular meshes for working
with the needle, as in tapestry, or worsted work.
(b) A piece of strong cloth of which the surface has been prepared to
receive painting, commonly painting in oil.
History . . . does not bring out clearly upon the canvas the details
which were familiar. J. H. Newman.

3. Something for which canvas is used: (a) A sail, or a collection of
sails. (b) A tent, or a collection of tents. (c) A painting, or a
picture on canvas.
To suit his canvas to the roughness of the see. Goldsmith.
Light, rich as that which glows on the canvas of Claude. Macaulay.

4. A rough draft or model of a song, air, or other literary or
musical composition; esp. one to show a poet the measure of the
verses he is to make. Grabb.

CANVAS
Can"vas, a.

Defn: Made of, pertaining to, or resembling, canvas or coarse cloth;
as, a canvas tent.

CANVASBACK
Can"vas*back`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Species of duck (Aythya vallisneria), esteemed for the
delicacy of its flesh. It visits the United States in autumn;
particularly Chesapeake Bay and adjoining waters; -- so named from
the markings of the plumage on its back.

CANVASS
Can"vass, v. t. [imp. & p. p. canvassed; p. pr. & vb. n. Canvassing.]
Etym: [OF. Canabasser to examine curiously, to search or sift out;
properly, to sift through canvas. See Canvas, n.]

1. To sift; to strain; to examine thoroughly; to scrutinize; as, to
canvass the votes cast at an election; to canvass a district with
reference to its probable vote.
I have made careful search on all hands, and canvassed the matter
with all possible diligence. Woodward.

2. To examine by discussion; to debate.
An opinion that we are likely soon to canvass. Sir W. Hamilton.

3. To go trough, with personal solicitation or public addresses; as,
to canvass a district for votes; to canvass a city for subscriptions.

CANVASS
Can"vass, v. i.

Defn: To search thoroughly; to engage in solicitation by traversing a
district; as, to canvass for subscriptions or for votes; to canvass
for a book, a publisher, or in behalf of a charity; -- commonly
followed by for.

CANVASS
Can"vass, n.

1. Close inspection; careful review for verification; as, a canvass
of votes. Bacon.

2. Examination in the way of discussion or debate.

3. Search; exploration; solicitation; systematic effort to obtain
votes, subscribers, etc.
No previous canvass was made for me. Burke.

CANVASSER
Can"vass*er, n.

Defn: One who canvasses.

CANY
Can"y, a. Etym: [From Cane.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes.
Milton.

CANYON
Can"yon, n.

Defn: The English form of the Spanish word Cañon.

CANZONE
Can*zo"ne, n. Etym: [It., a song, fr. L. cantio, fr. canere to sing.
Cf. Chanson, Chant.] (Mus.)
(a) A song or air for one or more voices, of Provençal origin,
resembling, though not strictly, the madrigal.
(b) An instrumental piece in the madrigal style.

CANZONET
Can`zo*net", n. Etym: [It. canzonetta, dim. of canzone.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short song, in one or more parts.

CAONCITO
Cañ`on*ci"to, n. [Amer. Sp. dim. See Cañon.] [Southwestern U. S.]

1. A small cañon.

2.  A narrow passage or lane through chaparral or a forest.

CAOUTCHIN
Caout"chin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An inflammable, volatile, oily, liquid hydrocarbon, obtained by
the destructive distillation of caoutchouc.

CAOUTCHOUC
Caout"chouc, n. Etym: [F. caoutchouc, from the South American name.]

Defn: A tenacious, elastic, gummy substance obtained from the milky
sap of several plants of tropical South America (esp. the
euphorbiaceous tree Siphonia elastica or Hevea caoutchouc), Asia, and
Africa. Being impermeable to liquids and gases, and not readly
affected by exposure to air, acids, and alkalies, it is used,
especially when vulcanized, for many purposes in the arts and in
manufactures. Also called India rubber (because it was first brought
from India, and was formerly used chiefly for erasing pencil marks)
and gum elastic. See Vulcanization. Mineral caoutchouc. See under
Mineral.

CAOUTCHOUCIN
Caout"chou*cin, n.

Defn: See Caoutchin.

CAP
Cap, n. Etym: [OE. cappe, AS. cæppe, cap, cape, hood, fr. LL, cappa,
capa; perhaps of Iberian origin, as Isidorus of Seville mentions it
first: "Capa, quia quasi totum capiat hominem; it. capitis
ornamentum." See 3d Cape, and cf. 1st Cope.]

1. A covering for the head; esp.
(a) One usually with a visor but without a brim, for men and boys;
(b) One of lace, muslin, etc., for women, or infants;
(c) One used as the mark or ensign of some rank, office, or dignity,
as that of a cardinal.

2. The top, or uppermost part; the chief.
Thou art the cap of all the fools alive. Shak.

3. A respectful uncovering of the head.
He that will give a cap and make a leg in thanks. Fuller.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The whole top of the head of a bird from the base of the bill
to the nape of the neck.

5. Anything resembling a cap in form, position, or use; as:
(a) (Arch.) The uppermost of any assemblage of parts; as, the cap of
column, door, etc.; a capital, coping, cornice, lintel, or plate.
(b) Something covering the top or end of a thing for protection or
ornament.
(c) (Naut.) A collar of iron or wood used in joining spars, as the
mast and the topmast, the bowsprit and the jib boom; also, a covering
of tarred canvas at the end of a rope.
(d) A percussion cap. See under Percussion.
(e) (Mech.) The removable cover of a journal box.
(f) (Geom.) A portion of a spherical or other convex surface.

6. A large size of writing paper; as, flat cap; foolscap; legal cap.
Cap of a cannon, a piece of lead laid over the vent to keep the
priming dry; -- now called an apron.
 -- Cap in hand, obsequiously; submissively.
 -- Cap of liberty. See Liberty cap, under Liberty.
 -- Cap of maintenance, a cap of state carried before the kings of
England at the coronation. It is also carried before the mayors of
some cities.
 -- Cap money, money collected in a cap for the huntsman at the death
of the fox.
 -- Cap paper. (a) A kind of writing paper including flat cap,
foolsap, and legal cap. (b) A coarse wrapping paper used for making
caps to hold commodities. Cap rock (Mining), The layer of rock next
overlying ore, generally of barren vein material.
 -- Flat cap, cap See Foolscap.
 -- Forage cap, the cloth undress head covering of an officer of
soldier.
 -- Legal cap, a kind of folio writing paper, made for the use of
lawyers, in long narrow sheets which have the fold at the top or
"narrow edge." -- To set one's cap, to make a fool of one. (Obs.)
Chaucer.
 -- To set one's cap for, to try to win the favor of a man with a
view to marriage. [Colloq.]

CAP
Cap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capped (; p. pr. & vb. n. Capping.]

1. To cover with a cap, or as with a cap; to provide with a cap or
cover; to cover the top or end of; to place a cap upon the proper
part of; as, to cap a post; to cap a gun.
The bones next the joint are capped with a smooth cartilaginous
substance. Derham.

2. To deprive of cap. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. To complete; to crown; to bring to the highest point or
consummation; as, to cap the climax of absurdity.

4. To salute by removing the cap. [Slang. Eng.]
Tom . . . capped the proctor with the profoundest of bows. Thackeray.

5. To match; to mate in contest; to furnish a complement to; as, to
cap text; to cap proverbs. Shak.
Now I have him under girdle I'll cap verses with him to the end of
the chapter. Dryden.

Note: In capping verses, when one quotes a verse another must cap it
by quoting one beginning with the last letter of the first letter, or
with the first letter of the last word, or ending with a rhyming
word, or by applying any other arbitrary rule may be agreed upon.

CAP
Cap, v. i.

Defn: To uncover the head respectfully. Shak.

CAPABILITY
Ca`pa*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Capabilities.

1. The quality of being capable; capacity; capableness; esp.
intellectual power or ability.
A capability to take a thousand views of a subject. H. Taylor.

2. Capacity of being used or improved.

CAPABLE
Ca"pa*ble, a. Etym: [F. capable, LL. capabilis capacious, capable,
fr. L. caper to take, contain. See Heave.]

1. Possessing ability, qualification, or susceptibility; having
capacity; of sufficient size or strength; as, a room capable of
holding a large number; a castle capable of resisting a long assault.
Concious of jou and capable of pain. Prior.

2. Possessing adequate power; qualified; able; fully competent; as, a
capable instructor; a capable judge; a mind capable of nice
investigations.
More capable to discourse of battles than to give them. Motley.

3. Possessing legal power or capacity; as, a man capable of making a
contract, or a will.

4. Capacious; large; comprehensive. [Obs.] Shak.

Note: Capable is usually followed by of, sometimes by an infinitive.

Syn.
 -- Able; competent; qualified; fitted; efficient; effective;
skillful.

CAPABLENESS
Ca"pa*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being capable; capability;
adequateness; competency.

CAPACIFY
Ca*pac"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capacified.] Etym: [L. capax, -acis,
capacious + -fy.]

Defn: To quality. [R.]
The benefice he is capacified and designed for. Barrow.

CAPACIOUS
Ca*pa"cious, a. Etym: [L. capaz, -acis, fr. capere to take. See
Heave.]

1. Having capacity; able to contain much; large; roomy; spacious;
extended; broad; as, a capacious vessel, room, bay, or harbor.
In the capacious recesses of his mind. Bancroft.

2. Able or qualified to make large views of things, as in obtaining
knowledge or forming designs; comprehensive; liberal. "A capacious
mind." Watts.

CAPACIOUSLY
Ca*pa"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a capacious manner or degree; comprehensively.

CAPACIOUSNESS
Ca*pa"cious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being capacious, as of a vessel, a reservoir a
bay, the mind, etc.

CAPACITATE
Ca*pac"i*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capacitated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Capacitating.]

Defn: To render capable; to enable; to qualify.
By thih instruction we may be capaciated to observe those errors.
Dryden.

CAPACITY
Ca*pac"i*ty, n.; pl. Capacities Etym: [L. capacitus, fr. capax,
capacis; fr. F. capacité. See Capacious.]

1. The power of receiving or containing; extent of room or space;
passive power; -- used in reference to physical things.
Had our great palace the capacity To camp this host, we all would sup
together. Shak.
The capacity of the exhausted cylinder. Boyle.

2. The power of receiving and holding ideas, knowledge, etc.; the
comprehensiveness of the mind; the receptive faculty; capability of
undestanding or feeling.
Capacity is now properly limited to these [the mere passive
operations of the mind]; its primary signification, which is
literally room for, as well as its employment, favars this; although
it can not be dented that there are examples of its usage in an
active sense. Sir W. Hamilton.

3. Ability; power pertaining to, or resulting from, the possession of
strength, wealth, or talent; possibility of being or of doing.
The capacity of blessing the people. Alex. Hamilton.
A cause with such capacities endued. Blackmore.

4. Outward condition or circumstances; occupation; profession;
character; position; as, to work in the capacity of a mason or a
carpenter.

5. (Law)

Defn: Legal or noral qualification, as of age, residence, character,
etc., necessary for certain purposes, as for holding office, for
marrying, for making contracts, will, etc.; legal power or right;
competency. Capacity for heat, the power of absorbing heat.
Substances differ in the amount of heat requisite to raise them a
given number of thermometric degrees, and this difference is the
measure of, or depends upon, whzt is called their capacity for heat.
See Specific heat, under Heat.

Syn.
 -- Ability; faculty; talent; capability; skill; efficiency;
cleverness. See Ability.

CAPAPE
Cap`*a*pe", adv.

Defn: See Cap-a-pie. Shak.

CAPAPIE
Cap`*a*pie", adv. Etym: [OF. (cap-a-pie, from head to foot, now de
pied en cap from foot to head; L. per foot + caput head.]

Defn: From head to foot; at all points. "He was armed cap-a-pie."
Prescott.

CAPARISON
Ca*par"i*son, n. Etym: [F. capara, fr. Sp. caparazon a cover for a
saddle, coach, etc.; capa cloak, cover (fr. LL. capa, cf. LL. caparo
also fr. capa) + the term. azon. See Cap.]

1. An ornamental covering or housing for a horse; the harness or
trappings of a horse, taken collectively, esp. when decorative.
Their horses clothed with rich caparison. Drylen.

2. Gay or rich clothing.
My heart groans beneath the gay caparison. Smollett.

CAPARISON
Ca*par"i*son, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Caparisoned p. pr. & vb. n.
Caparisoning.] Etym: [Cf. F caparaçonner.]

1. To cover with housings, as a horse; to harness or fit out with
decorative trappings, as a horse.
The steeds, caparisoned with purple, stand. Dryden.

2. To aborn with rich dress; to dress.
I am caparisoned like a man. Shak.

CAPARRO
Ca*par"ro, n. Etym: [Native Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South American monkey (Lagothrix Humboldtii), with
prehensile tail.

CAPCASE
Cap"case`, n.

Defn: A small traveling case or bandbox; formerly, a chest.
A capcase for your linen and your plate. Beau. & Fl.

CAPE
Cape, n. Etym: [F. cap, fr. It. capo head, cape, fr. L. caput heat,
end, point. See Chief.]

Defn: A piece or point of land, extending beyind the adjacent coast
into the sea or a lake; a promonotory; a headland. Cape buffalo
(Zoöl.) a large and powerful buffalo of South Africa (Bubalus
Caffer). It is said to be the most dangerous wild beast of Africa.
See Buffalo, 2.
 -- Cape jasmine, Cape jassamine. See Jasmine.
 -- Cape pigeon (Zoöl.), a petrel (Daptium Capense) common off the
Cape of Good Hope. It is about the size of a pigeon.
 -- Cape wine, wine made in South Africa [Eng.] -- The Cape, the Cape
of Good Hope, in the general sense of southern extremity of Africa.
Also used of Cape Horn, and, in New England, of Cape Cod.

CAPE
Cape, v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: To head or point; to keep a course; as, the ship capes
southwest by south.

CAPE
Cape, n. Etym: [OE. Cape, fr. F. cape; cf. LL. cappa. See Cap, and
cf. 1st Cope, Chape.]

Defn: A sleeveless garment or part of a garment, hanging from the
neck over the back, arms, and shoulders, but not reaching below the
hips. See Cloak.

CAPE
Cape, v. i. Etym: [See Gape.]

Defn: To gape. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CAPEL; CAPLE
Ca"pel, Ca"ple, n. Etym: [Icel. kapall; cf. L. caballus.]

Defn: A horse; a nag. [Obs.] Chaucer. Holland.

CAPEL
Ca"pel, n. (Mining)

Defn: A composite stone (quartz, schorl, and hornlende) in the walls
of tin and copper lodes.

CAPELAN
Cap"e*lan, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Capelin.

CAPELIN
Cape"lin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. capelan, caplan.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small marine fish (Mallotus villosus) of the family
Salmonidæ, very abundant on the coasts of Greenland, Iceland,
Newfoundland, and Alaska. It is used as a bait for the cod. [Written
also capelan and caplin.]

Note: This fish, which is like a smelt, is called by the Spaniards
anchova, and by the Portuguese capelina. Fisheries of U. S. (1884).

CAPELINE
Ca"pe*line`, n. [F., fr. LL. capella. See Chapel.] (Med.)

Defn: A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stump
of an amputated limb.

CAPELLA
Ca*pel"la, n. Etym: [L., a little goet, dim. of caper a goat.]
(Asrton.)

Defn: A brilliant star in the constellation Auriga.

CAPELLANE
Cap"el*lane, n. Etym: [See Chaplain.]

Defn: The curate of a chapel; a chaplain. [Obs.] Fuller.

CAPELLE
Ca*pel"le, n. Etym: [G.] (Mus.)

Defn: The private orchestra or band of a prince or of a church.

CAPELLET
Cap"el*let, n. Etym: [F. capelet.] (Far.)

Defn: A swelling, like a wen, on the point of the elbow (or the heel
of the hock) of a horse, caused probably by bruises in lying dowm.

CAPELLMEISTER
Ca*pell"meis`ter, n. Etym: [G., fr. capelle chapel, private band of a
prince + meister a master.]

Defn: The musical director in royal or ducal chapel; a choirmaster.
[Written also kepellmeister.]

CAPER
Ca"per, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Capered p. pr. & vb. n. capering.] Etym:
[From older capreoll to caper, cf. F. se cabrer to prance; all
ultimately fr. L. caper, capra, goat. See Capriole.]

Defn: To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; to
skip; to spring; to prance; to dance.
He capers, he dances, he has eyes of youth. Shak.

CAPER
Ca"per, n.

Defn: A frolicsome leap or spring; a skip; a jump, as in mirth or
dancing; a prank. To cut a caper, to frolic; to make a sportive
spring; to play a prank. Shak.

CAPER
Ca"per, n. Etym: [D. kaper.]

Defn: A vessel formerly used by the Dutch, privateer. Wright.

CAPER
Ca"per, n. Etym: [F. câpre, fr. L. capparis, Gr. al-kabar.]

1. The pungent grayish green flower bud of the European and Oriental
caper (Capparis spinosa), much used for pickles.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Capparis; -- called also caper bush, caper
tree.

Note: The Capparis spinosa is a low prickly shrub of the
Mediterranean coasts, with trailing branches and brilliant flowers; -
- cultivated in the south of Europe for its buds. The C. sodada is an
almost leafless spiny shrub of central Africa (Soudan), Arabia, and
southern India, with edible berries. Bean caper. See Bran caper, in
the Vocabulary.
 -- Caper sauce, a kind of sauce or catchup made of capers.

CAPERBERRY
Ca"per*ber`ry, n.

1. The small olive-shaped berry of the European and Oriental caper,
said to be used in pickles and as a condiment.

2. The currantlike fruit of the African and Arabian caper (Capparis
sodado).

CAPER BUSH; CAPER TREE
Ca"per bush`, Ca"per tree`.

Defn: See Capper, a plant, 2.

CAPERCAILZIE; CAPERCALLY
Ca"per*cail`zie, or Ca"per*cal`ly, n. Etym: [Gael, capulcoile.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of grouse (Tetrao uragallus) of large size and fine
flavor, found in northern Europe and formerly in Scotland; -- called
also cock of the woods. [Written also capercaillie, capercaili.]

CAPERCLAW
Ca"per*claw`, v. t.

Defn: To treat with cruel playfulness, as a cat treats a mouse; to
abuse. [Obs.] Birch.

CAPERER
Ca"per*er, n.

Defn: One who capers, leaps, and skips about, or dances.
The nimble capperer on the cord. Dryden.

CAPFUL
Cap"ful, n.; pl. Capfuls (.

Defn: As much as will fill a cap. A capful of wind (Naut.), a light
puff of wind.

CAPIAS
Ca"pi*as, n. Etym: [L. thou mayst take.] (Low)

Defn: A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body of
the person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writ
of capias.

Note: One principal kind of capias is a writ by which actions at law
are frequently commenced; another is a writ of execution issued after
judgment to satisfy damages recovered; a capias in criminal law is
the process to take a person charged on an indictment, when he is not
in custody. Burrill. Wharton.

CAPIBARA
Ca`pi*ba"ra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Capybara.

CAPILLACEOUS
Cap`il*la"ceous, a. Etym: [L. capillaceus hairy, fr. capillus hair.]

Defn: Having long filaments; resembling a hair; slender. See
Capillary.

CAPILLAIRE
Cap`il*laire", n. Etym: [F. capillaire maiden-hair; sirop de
capillaire capillaire; fr. L. herba capillaris the maidenhair.]

1. A sirup prepared from the maiden-hair, formerly supposed to have
medicinal properties.

2. Any simple sirup flavored with orange flowers.

CAPILLAMENT
Ca*pil"la*ment, n. Etym: [L. capillamentum, fr. capillus hair: cf. F.
capillament.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A filament. [R.]

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Any villous or hairy covering; a fine fiber or filament, as of
the nerves.

CAPILLARINESS
Cap"il*la*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being capillary.

CAPILLARITY
Cap`il*lar"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. capillarité.]

1. The quality or condition of being capillary.

2. (Physics)

Defn: The peculiar action by which the surface of a liquid, where it
is in contact with a solid (as in a capillary tube), is elevated or
depressed; capillary attraction.

Note: Capillarity depends upon the relative attaction of the
modecules of the liquid for each other and for those of the solid,
and is especially observable in capillary tubes, where it determines
the ascent or descent of the liquid above or below the level of the
liquid which the tube is dipped; -- hence the name.

CAPILLARY
Cap"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. capillaris, fr. capillus hair. Cf.
Capillaire.]

1. Resembling a hair; fine; minute; very slender; having minute tubes
or interspaces; having very small bore; as, the capillary vessels of
animals and plants.

2. Pertaining to capillary tubes or vessels; as, capillary action.
Capillary attraction, Capillary repulsion, the apparent attraction or
repulsion between a soild and liquid caused bycapillarity. See
Capillarity, and Attraction.
 -- Capillarity tubes. See the Note under Capillarity.

CAPILLARY
Cap"il*la*ry, n.; pl., Capillaries (.

1. A tube or vessel, extremely fine or minute.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A minute, thin-walled vessel; particularly one of the smallest
blood vessels connecting arteries and veins, but used also for the
smallest lymphatic and biliary vessels.

CAPILLATION
Cap`il*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. capillatie the hair.]

Defn: A capillary blood vessel. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CAPILLATURE
Ca*pil"la*ture, n. Etym: [L. capillatura.]

Defn: A bush of hair; frizzing of the hair. Clarke.

CAPILLIFORM
Ca*pil"li*form, a. Etym: [L. capillus hair + -form.]

Defn: In the shape or form of, a hair, or of hairs.

CAPILLOSE
Cap"il*lose`, a. Etym: [L. capillosus.]

Defn: Having much hair; hairy. [R.]

CAPISTRATE
Ca*pis"trate, a. Etym: [L. capistratus, p. p. of capistrare halter.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Hooded; cowled.

CAPITAL
Cap"i*tal, a. Etym: [F. capital, L. capitalis capital (in senses 1 &
2), fr. caput head. See Chief, and cf. Capital, n.]

1. Of or pertaining to the head. [Obs.]
Needs must the Serpent now his capital bruise Expect with mortal
pain. Milton.

2. Having reference to, or involving, the forfeiture of the head or
life; affecting life; punishable with death; as, capital trials;
capital punishment.
Many crimes that are capital among us. Swift.
To put to death a capital offender. Milton.

3. First in importance; chief; principal.
A capital article in religion Atterbury.
Whatever is capital and essential in Christianity. I. Taylor.

4. Chief, in a political sense, as being the seat of the general
government of a state or nation; as, Washington and Paris are capital
cities.

5. Of first rate quality; excellent; as, a capital speech or song.
[Colloq.]

Capital letter Etym: [F, lettre capitale] (Print.), a leading or
heading letter, used at the beginning of a sentence and as the first
letter of certain words, distinguished, for the most part, both by
different form and larger size, from the small (lower-case) letters,
which form the greater part of common print or writing.
 -- Small capital letters have the form of capital letters and height
of the body of the lower-case letters.
 -- Capital stock, money, property, or stock invested in any
business, or the enterprise of any corporation or institution.
Abbott.

Syn.
 -- Chief; leading; controlling; prominent.

CAPITAL
Cap"i*tal, n. Etym: [Cf. L. capitellum and Capitulum, a small head,
the head, top, or capital of a column, dim. of caput head; F.
chapiteau, OF. capitel. See Chief, and cf. Cattle, Chattel, Chapiter,
Chapter.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: The head or uppermost member of a column, pilaster, etc. It
consists generally of three parts, abacus, bell (or vase), and
necking. See these terms, and Column.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. capilate, fem., sc. ville.] (Geog.)

Defn: The seat of government; the chief city or town in a country; a
metropolis. "A busy and splendid capital" Macauly.

3. Etym: [Cf. F. capital.]

Defn: Money, property, or stock employed in trade, manufactures,
etc.; the sum invested or lent, as distinguished from the income or
interest. See Capital stock, under Capital, a.

4. (Polit. Econ.)

Defn: That portion of the produce of industry, which may be directly
employed either to support human beings or to assist in production.
M'Culloch.

Note: When wealth is used to assist production it is called capital.
The capital of a civilized community includes fixed capital (i.e.
buildings, machines, and roads used in the course of production and
exchange) amd circulating capital (i.e., food, fuel, money, etc.,
spent in the course of production and exchange). T. Raleing.

5. Anything which can be used to increase one's power or influence.
He tried to make capital out of his rival's discomfiture. London
Times.

6. (Fort.)

Defn: An imaginary line dividing a bastion, ravelin, or other work,
into two equal parts.

7. A chapter, or section, of a book. [Obs.]
Holy St. Bernard hath said in the 59th capital. Sir W. Scott.

8. (Print.)

Defn: See Capital letter, under Capital, a. Active capital. See under
Active, -- Small capital (Print.), a small capital letter. See under
Capital, a.
 -- To live on one's capital, to consume one's capital without
producing or accumulating anything to replace it.

CAPITALIST
Cap"i*tal*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. capitaliste.]

Defn: One who has capital; one who has money for investment, or money
invested; esp. a person of large property, which is employed in
business.
The expenditure of the capitalist. Burke.

CAPITALIZATION
Cap"i*tal*i*za`tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of capitalizing.

CAPITALIZE
Cap"i*tal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capitalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Capitalizing.]

1. To convert into capital, or to use as capital.

2. To compute, appraise, or assess the capital value of (a patent
right, an annuity, etc.)

3. To print in capital letters, or with an initial capital.

CAPITALLY
Cap*i*tal*ly, adv.

1. In a way involving the forfeiture of the head or life; as, to
punish capitally.

2. In a capital manner; excellently. [Colloq.]

CAPITALNESS
Cap"i*tal*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being capital; preeminence. [R.]

CAPITAN PASHA; CAPITAN PACHA
Ca`pi*tan` Pa*sha` or Pa*cha`. Etym: [See capitan.]

Defn: The chief admiral of the Turkish fleet.

CAPITATE
Cap"i*tate, a Etym: [L. capitatus fr. caput head.]

1. Headlike in form; also, having the distal end enlarged and
rounded, as the stigmas of certain flowers.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the flowers gathered into a head.

CAPITATIM
Cap`i*ta"tim, a. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Of so much per head; as, a capitatim tax; a capitatim grant.

CAPITATION
Cap`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. capitatio a poll tax, fr. caput head; cf.
F. capitation.]

1. A numbering of heads or individuals. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. A tax upon each head or person, without reference to property; a
poll tax.

CAPITE
Cap"i*te, n. Etym: [L., abl. of caput head.]

Defn: See under Tenant.

CAPITELLATE
Cap`i*tel"late, a. Etym: [L. capitellum, dim. of caput head.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a very small knoblike termination, or collected into
minute capitula.

CAPITIBRANCHIATA
Cap`i*ti*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. caput, capitis,
head + -branchiae gills.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of annelids in which the gills arise from or near
the head. See Tubicola.

CAPITOL
Cap"i*tol, Etym: [L. capitolium, fr. caput head: cf. F. capitole. See
Chief.]

1. The temple of Jupiter, at Rome, on the Mona Capitolinus, where the
Senate met.
Comes Cæsar to the Capitol to-morrow Shak.

2. The edifice at Washington occupied by the Congress of the United
States; also, the building in which the legislature of State holds
its sessions; a statehouse.

CAPITOLIAN; CAPITOLINE
Cap`i*to"li*an, Cap"i*to*line, a. Etym: [L. capitolinus: cf. F.
capitolin.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Capitol in Rome. "Capitolian Jove."
Macaulay. Capitoline games (Antiq.), annual games instituted at Rome
by Camillus, in honor of Jupter Capitolinus, on account of the
preservation of the Capitol from the Gauls; when reinstituted by
Domitian, arter a period of neglect, they were held every fifth year.

CAPITULA
Ca*pit"u*la, n. pl.

Defn: See Capitulum.

CAPITULAR
Ca*pit"u*lar, n. Etym: [LL. capitulare, capitularium, fr. L.
capitulum a small head, a chapter, dim. of capit head, chapter.]

1. An act passed in a chapter.

2. A member of a chapter.
The chapter itself, and all its members or capitulars. Ayliffe.

3. The head or prominent part.

CAPITULAR
Ca*pit"u*lar, a.

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chapter; capitulary.
From the pope to the member of the capitular body. Milman.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing in, or pertaining to, a capitulum.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to a capitulum; as, the capitular process of a
vetebra, the process which articulates with the capitulum of a rib.

CAPITULARLY
Ca*pit"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner or form of an ecclesiastical chapter. Sterne.

CAPITULARY
Ca*pit"u*la*ry, n.; pl. Capitularies. Etym: [See Capitular.]

1. A capitular.

2. The body of laws or statutes of a chapter, or of an ecclesiastical
council.

3. A collection of laws or statutes, civil and ecclesiastical, esp.
of the Frankish kings, in chapters or sections.
Several of Charlemagne's capitularies. Hallam.

CAPITULARY
Ca*pit"u*la*ry, a.

Defn: Relating to the chapter of a cathedral; capitular. "Capitulary
acts." Warton.

CAPITULATE
Ca*pit"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Capitulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Capitulating.] Etym: [LL. capitulatus, p. p. of capitulare to
capitulate: cf. F. capituler. See Capitular, n.]

1. To settle or draw up the heads or terms of an agreement, as in
chapters or articles; to agree. [Obs.]
There capitulates with the king . . . to take to wife his daughter
Mary. Heylin.
There is no reason why the reducing of any agreement to certain heads
or capitula should not be called to capitulate. Trench.

2. To surrender on terms agreed upon (usually, drawn up under several
heads); as, an army or a garrison capitulates.
The Irish, after holding out a week, capitulated. Macaulay.

CAPITULATE
Ca*pit"u*late, v. t.

Defn: To surrender or transfer, as an army or a fortress, on certain
conditions. [R.]

CAPITULATION
Ca*pit`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. capitulation, LL. capitulatio.]

1. A reducing to heads or articles; a formal agreement.
With special capitulation that neither the Scots nor the French shall
refortify. Bp. Burnet.

2. The act of capitulating or surrendering to an emeny upon
stipulated terms.

3. The instrument containing the terms of an agreement or surrender.

CAPITULATOR
Ca*pit"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [LL.]

Defn: One who capitulates.

CAPITULE
Cap"i*tule, n. Etym: [L. capitulum small head, chapter.]

Defn: A summary. [Obs.]

CAPITULUM
Ca*pit"u*lum, n.; pl. Capitula (. Etym: [L., a small head.]

1. A thick head of flowers on a very short axis, as a clover top, or
a dandelion; a composite flower. A capitulum may be either globular
or flat. Gray.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A knobike protuberance of any part, esp. at the end of a bone
or cartilage.

Note: [See Illust. of Artiodactyla.]

CAPIVI
Ca*pi"vi, n. Etym: [Cf. Copaiba.]

Defn: A balsam of the Spanish West Indies. See Copaiba.

CAPLE
Ca"ple, n.

Defn: See Capel.

CAPLIN
Cap"lin, n.

Defn: See Capelin.

CAPLIN; CAPLING
Cap"lin, Cap"ling, n.

Defn: The cap or coupling of a flail, through which the thongs pass
which connect the handle and swingel. Wright.

CAPNOMANCY
Cap"no*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. mancy: cf. F. capnomancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of the ascent or motion of smoke.

CAPNOMOR
Cap"no*mor, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A limpid, colorless oil with a peculiar odor, obtained from
beech tar. Watts.

CAPOC
Ca*poc", n. Etym: [Malay kapoq.]

Defn: A sort of cotton so short and fine thet it can not be spun,
used in the East Indies to line palanquins, to make mattresses, etc.

CAPOCH
Ca*poch", n.; pl. Capoches. Etym: [Cf. Sp. capucho, It. cappucio, F.
Capuce, capuchon, LL. caputium, fr. capa cloak. See Cap.]

Defn: A hood; especialy, the hood attached to the gown of a monk.

CAPOCH
Ca*poch", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capoched.]

Defn: To cover with, or as with, a hood; hence, to hoodwink or blind.
Hudibras.

CAPON
Ca"pon, n. Etym: [OE. capon, chapoun, AS. cap (cf. F. chapon), L.
capo, fr. Gr. skopiti to casrate. CF. Comma.]

Defn: A castrated cock, esp. when fattened; a male chicken gelded to
improve his flesh for the table. Shak.
The merry thought of a capon. W. Irving.

CAPON
Ca"pon, v. t.

Defn: To castrate; to make a capon of.

CAPONET
Ca"pon*et, n.

Defn: A young capon. [R.] Chapman.

CAPONIERE
Cap`o*niere", n. Etym: [F. caponnière, fr. Sp. caponera, orig., a
cage for fattening capons, hence, a place of refuge; cf. It.
capponiera. See Capon.] (Fort.)

Defn: A work made across or in the ditch, to protect it from the
enemy, or to serve as a covered passageway.

CAPONIZE
Ca"pon*ize, v. t.

Defn: To castrate, as a fowl.

CAPORAL
Ca`po*ral" (kä`po*räl"), n. [Sp. See Corporal, n.]

Defn: One who directs work; an overseer. [Sp. Amer.]

CAPOT
Ca*pot", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A winning of all the tricks at the game of piquet. It counts
for forty points. Hoyle.

CAPOT
Ca*pot", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Capotted.]

Defn: To win all the tricks from, in playing at piquet.

CAPO TASTO
Ca"po tas"to. [It. capotasto.] (Music)

Defn: A sort of bar or movable nut, attached to the finger board of a
guitar or other  fretted instrument for the purpose of raising
uniformly the pitch of all the strings.

CAPOTE
Ca*pote", n. Etym: [Sp. capote (cf. F. capote.), fr. LL. capa cape,
cloak. See Cap.]

Defn: A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood.

CAPOUCH
Ca*pouch", n. & v. t.

Defn: Same as Capoch.

CAPPADINE
Cap"pa*dine, n.

Defn: A floss or waste obtained from the cocoon after the silk has
been reeled off, used for shag.

CAPPAPER
Cap"pa`per,

Defn: See cap, n., also Paper, n.

CAPPEAK
Cap"peak`, n.

Defn: The front piece of a cap; -- now more commonly called visor.

CAPPELINE
Cap"pe*line`, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. capella. See Chapel.] (Med.)

Defn: A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stump
of an amputated limb.

CAPPELLA
Cap*pel"la, n.

Defn: See A cappella.

CAPPER
Cap"per, n.

1. One whose business is to make or sell caps.

2. A by-bidder; a decoy for gamblers [Slang, U. S.].

3. An instrument for applying a percussion cap to a gun or cartridge.

CAPPING PLANE
Cap"ping plane`. (Join.)

Defn: A plane used for working the upper surface of staircase rails.

CAPRA
Ca"pra, n. Etym: [L., a she goat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ruminants, including the common goat.

CAPRATE
Cap"rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of capric acid.

CAPREOLATE
Cap"re*o*late, a. Etym: [L. capreolus wild goat, tendril, fr.caper
goat: cf. F. capréolé.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a tendril or tendrils.

CAPREOLINE
Cap"re*o*line, a. Etym: [L. capreolus wild goat, fr. caper goat.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the roebuck.

CAPRI
Ca"pri, n.

Defn: Wine produced on the island of Capri, commonly a light, dry,
white wine.

CAPRIC
Cap"ric, a. Etym: [L. caper goat.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to capric acid or its derivatives. Capric
acid, C9H9.CO2H, Caprylic acid, C7H15.CO2H, and Caproic acid,
C5H11.CO2H, are fatty acids occurring in small quantities in butter,
cocoanut oil, etc., united with glycerin; they are colorless oils, or
white crystalline solids, of an unpleasant odor like that of goats or
sweat.

CAPRICCIO
Ca*pric"cio, n. Etym: [It. See Caprice.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A piece in a free form, with frequent digressions from the
theme; a fantasia; -- often called caprice.

2. A caprice; a freak; a fancy. Shak.

CAPRICE
Ca*price", n. Etym: [F. caprice, It. capriccio, caprice (perh. orig.
a fantastical goat leap), fr. L. caper, capra, goat. Cf Capriole,
Cab, Caper, v. i.]

1. An abrupt change in feeling, opinion, or action, proceeding from
some whim or fancy; a freak; a notion. "Caprices of appetite." W.
Irving.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: See Capriccio.

Syn.
 -- Freak; whim; crotchet; fancy; vagary; humor; whimsey; fickleness.

CAPRICIOSO; CAPRICCIOSO
Ca*pri*cio"so, Ca*pric*cio"so, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus)

Defn: In a free, fantastic style.

CAPRICIOUS
Ca*pri"cious, a. Etym: [Cf. F. capricleux, It. capriccioso.]

Defn: Governed or characterized by caprice; apt to change suddenly;
freakish; whimsical; changeable. "Capricious poet." Shak. "Capricious
humor." Hugh Miller.
A capricious partiality to the Romish practices. Hallam.

Syn.
 -- Freakish; whimsical; fanciful; fickle; crotchety; fitful;
wayward; changeable; unsteady; uncertain; inconstant; arbitrary.
 -- Ca*pri"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Ca*pri"cious*ness, n.

CAPRICORN
Cap"ri*corn, n. Etym: [L. capricornus; caper goat + cornu horn: cf.
F. capricorne.]

1. (Astron.)

Defn: The tenth sign of zodiac, into which the sun enters at the
winter solstice, about December 21. See Tropic.
The sun was entered into Capricorn. Dryden.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A southern constellation, represented on ancient monuments by
the figure of a goat, or a figure with its fore part like a fish.
Capricorn beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle of the family Carambucidæ; one
of the long-horned beetles. The larvæ usually bore into the wood or
bark of trees and shurbs and are often destructive. See Girdler,
Pruner.

CAPRID
Cap"rid, a. Etym: [L. caper, capra, goat.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tribe of ruminants of which the goat,
or genus Capra, is the type.

CAPRIFICATION
Cap"ri*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. caprificatio, fr. caprificare to
ripen figs by caprification, fr. caprificus the wild fig; caper goat
+ ficus fig.]

Defn: The practice of hanging, upon the cultivated fig tree, branches
of the wild fig infested with minute hymenopterous insects.

Note: It is supposed that the little insects insure fertilization by
carrying the pollen from the male flowers near the opening of the fig
down to the female flowers, and also accelerate ripening the fruit by
puncturing it. The practice has existed since ancient times, but its
benefit has been disputed.

CAPRIFOLE
Cap"ri*fole, n. Etym: [L. caper goat + folium leaf.]

Defn: The woodbine or honeysuckle. Spenser.

CAPRIFOLIACEOUS
Cap"ri*fo`li*a`ceous, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Honeysuckle family of
plants (Caprifoliacæ.

CAPRIFORM
Cap"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. caper goat + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a goat.

CAPRIGENOUS
Ca*prig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. caprigenus; caper goat + gegnere to
produce.]

Defn: Of the goat kind.

CAPRINE
Cap"rine, a. Etym: [L. caprinus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a goat; as, caprine gambols.

CAPRIOLE
Cap"ri*ole, n. Etym: [F. capriole, cabriole, It. capriola, fr. L.
caper goat. Cf. Caper, v. i. Cabriole, Caprice, Cheveril.]

1. (Man.)

Defn: A leap that a horse makes with all fours, upwards only, without
advancing, but with a kick or jerk of the hind legs when at the
height of the leap.

2. A leap or caper, as in dancing. "With lofty turns and caprioles."
Sir J. Davies.

CAPRIOLE
Cap"ri*ole, v. i.

Defn: To perform a capriole. Carlyle.

CAPRIPED
Cap"ri*ped, a. Etym: [L. capripers; caper goat + pes pedis, foot.]

Defn: Having feet like those of a goat.

CAPROATE
Cap"ro*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of caproic acid.

CAPROIC
Ca*pro"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See under Capric.

CAPRYLATE
Cap"ry*late, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of caprylic acid.

CAPRYLIC
Ca*pryl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: See under Capric.

CAPSAICIN
Cap*sa"i*cin, n. Etym: [From Capsicum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless crystalline substance extracted from the Capsicum
annuum, and giving off vapors of intense acridity.

CAPSHEAF
Cap"sheaf`, n.

Defn: The top sheaf of a stack of grain: (fig.) the crowning or
finishing part of a thing.

CAPSICIN
Cap"si*cin, n. Etym: [From Capsicum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A red liquid or soft resin extracted from various species of
capsicum.

CAPSICINE
Cap"si*cine, n. Etym: [From Capsicum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A valatile alkaloid extracted from Capsicum annuum or from
capsicin.

CAPSICUM
Cap"si*cum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. capsa box, chest.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of many species, producing capsules or dry
berries of various forms, which have an exceedingly pungent, biting
taste, and when ground form the red of Cayenne pepper of commerce.

Note: The most important species are Capsicum baccatum or birs
pepper. C, annuum or chili pepper, C. frutesens or spur pepper, and
C. annuum or Guinea pepeer, which includes the bell pepper and other
common garden varieties. The fruit is much used, both in its green
and ripe state, in pickles and in cookery. See Cayenne pepper.

CAPSIZE
Cap*size", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Capsized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Capsizing.] Etym: [Cf. Sp. cabecear to nod, pitch, capuzar, chapuzar,
to sink (a vessel) by the head; both fr. L. caput head.]

Defn: To upset or overturn, as a vessel or other body.
But what if carrying sail capsize the boat Byron.

CAPSIZE
Cap"size`, n.

Defn: An upset or overturn.

CAPSQUARE
Cap"*square, n. (Gun.)

Defn: A metal covering plate which passes over the trunnions of a
cannon, and holds it in place.

CAPSTAN
Cap"stan, n. Etym: [F. cabestan, fr. Sp. cabestrante, cabrestante,
fr. cabestrar to bind with a halter, fr. cabestrohalter, fr. L.
capistrum halter, fr. capere to hold (see Capacious); or perh. the
Spanish is fr. L. caper goat + stans, p. pr. of stare to stand; cf.
F. chèvre she-goat, also a machine for raising heavy weights.]

Defn: A vertical cleated drum or cylinder, revolving on an upright
spindle, and surmounted by a drumhead with sockets for bars or
levers. It is much used, especially on shipboard, for moving or
raising heavy weights or exerting great power by traction upon a rope
or cable, passing around the drum. It is operated either by steam
power or by a number of men walking around the capstan, each pushing
on the end of a lever fixed in its socket. [Sometimes spelt Capstern,
but improperly.] Capstan bar, one of the long bars or levers by which
the capstan is worked; a handspike..
 -- To pawl the capstan, to drop the pawls so that they will catch in
the notches of the pawl ring, and prevent the capstan from turning
back.
 -- To rig the capstan, to prepare the for use, by putting the bars
in the sockets.
 -- To surge the capstan, to slack the tension of the rope or cable
wound around it.

CAPSTONE
Cap"stone`, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil echinus of the genus Cannulus; -- so called from its
supposed resemblance to a cap.

CAPSULAR; CAPSULARY
Cap"su*lar, Cap"su*la*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. capsulaire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a capsule; having the nature of a capsula;
hollow and fibrous. Capsular ligament (Anat.), a ligamentous bag or
capsule surrounding many movable joints in the skeleton.

CAPSULATE; CAPSULATED
Cap"su*late, Cap"su*la`ted, a.

Defn: Inclosed in a capsule, or as in a chest or box.

CAPSULE
Cap"sule, n. Etym: [L. capsula a little box or chest, fr. capsa
chest, case, fr. capere to take, contain: cf. F. capsule.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: a dry fruit or pod which is made up of several parts or
carpels, and opens to discharge the seeds, as, the capsule of the
poppy, the flax, the lily, etc.

2. (Chem.)
(a) A small saucer of clay for roasting or melting samples of ores,
etc.; a scorifier.
(b) a small, shallow, evaporating dish, usually of porcelain.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A small cylindrical or spherical gelatinous envelope in which
nauseous or acrid doses are inclosed to be swallowed.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: A membranous sac containing fluid, or investing an organ or
joint; as, the capsule of the lens of the eye. Also, a capsulelike
organ.

5. A metallic seal or cover for closing a bottle,

6. A small cup or shell, as of metal, for a percussion cap,
cartridge, etc. Atrabiliary capsule. See under Atrabiliary.
 -- Glisson's capsule, a membranous envelope, entering the liver
along with the portal vessels and insheathing the latter in their
course through the organ.
 -- Suprarenal capsule, an organ of unknown function, above or in
front of each kidney.

CAPSULITIS
Cap`su*li"tis, n. [NL.; E. capsule + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of a capsule, as that of the crystalline lens.

CAPSULOTOMY
Cap`su*lot"o*my, n.  [Capsule + Gr.  to cut.] (Surg.)

Defn: The incision of a capsule, esp. of that of the crystalline
lens, as in a cataract operation.

CAPTAIN
Cap"tain, n. Etym: [OE. capitain, captain, OF. capitain, F. capitaine
(cf. Sp. capitan, It. capitano), LL. capitaneus, capitanus, fr. L.
caput the head. See under Chief, and cf. Chieftain.]

1. A head, or chief officer; as:
(a) The military officer who commands a company, troop, or battery,
or who has the rank entitling him to do so though he may be employed
on other service.
(b) An officer in the United States navy, next above a commander and
below a commodore, and ranking with a colonel in the ermy.
(c) By courtesy, an officer actually commanding a vessel, although
not having the rank of captain.
(d) The master or commanding officer of a merchant vessel.
(e) One in charge of a portion of a ship's company; as, a captain of
a top, captain of a gun, etc.
(f) The foreman of a body of workmen.
(g) A person having authority over others acting in concert; as, the
captain of a boat's crew; the captain of a football team.
A trainband captain eke was he. Cowper.
The Rhodian captain, relying on . . . the lightness of his vessel,
passed, in open day, through all the guards. Arbuthnot.

2. A military leader; a warrior.
Foremost captain of his time. Tennyson.
Captain general. (a) The commander in chief of an army or armies, or
of the militia. (b) The Spanish governor of Cuba and its dependent
islands.
 -- Captain lieutenant, a lieutenant with the rank and duties of
captain but with a lieutenant's pay, -- as in the first company of an
English regiment.

CAPTAIN
Cap"tain, v. t.

Defn: To act as captain of; to lead. [R.]
Men who captained or accompanied the exodus from existing forms.
Lowell.

CAPTAIN
Cap"tain, a.

Defn: Chief; superior. [R.]
captain jewes in the carcanet. Shak.

CAPTAINCY
Cap"tain*cy, n.; pl. Captaincies (.

Defn: The rank, post, or commission of a captain. Washington.
Captaincy general, the office, power, teritory, or jurisdiction of a
captain general; as, the captaincy general of La Habana (Cuba and its
islands).

CAPTAINRY
Cap"tain*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. capitainerie.]

Defn: Power, or command, over a certain district; chieftainship.
[Obs.]

CAPTAINSHIP
Cap"tain*ship, n.

1. The condition, rank, post, or authority of a captain or chief
commander. "To take the captainship." Shak.

2. Military skill; as, to show good captainship.

CAPTATION
Cap*ta`tion, n. Etym: [L. captatio, fr. captare to catch, intens of
caper to take: cf. F. captation.]

Defn: A courting of favor or applause, by flattery or address; a
captivating quality; an attraction. [Obs.]
Without any of those dresses, or popular captations, which some men
use in their speeches. Eikon Basilike.

CAPTION
Cap"tion, n. Etym: [L. captio, fr. caper to take. In senses 3 and 4,
perhaps confounded in meaning with L. caput a head. See Capacious.]

1. A caviling; a sophism. [Obs.]
This doctrine is for caption and contradiction. Bacon.

2. The act of taking or arresting a person by judicial process. [R.]
Bouvier.

3. (Law)

Defn: That part of a legal instrument, as a commission, indictment,
etc., which shows where, when, and by what authority, it taken,
found, or executed. Bouvier. Wharton.

4. The heading of a chapter, section, or page. [U. S.]

CAPTIOUS
Cap"tious, a. Etym: [F. captieux, L. captiosus. See Caption.]

1. Art to catch at faults; disposed to find fault or to cavil; eager
to object; difficult to please.
A captius and suspicious. Stillingfleet.
I am sensible I have not disposed my materials to adbide the test of
a captious controversy. Bwike.

2. Fitted to harass, perplex, or insnare; insidious; troublesome.
Captious restraints on navigation. Bancroft.

Syn.
 -- Caviling, carping, fault-finding; censorious; hypercritical;
peevish, fretful; perverse; troublesome.
 -- Captious, caviling, Carping. A captious person is one who has a
fault-finding habit or manner, or is disposed to catch at faults,
errors, etc., with quarrelsome intent; a caviling person is disposed
to raise objections on frivolous grounds; carping implies that one is
given to ill-natured, persistent, or unreasonable fault-finding, or
picking up of the words or actions of others.
Caviling is the carping of argument, carping the caviling of ill
temper. C. J. Smith.

CAPTIOUSLY
Cap"tious*ly, adv.

Defn: In a captious manner.

CAPTIOUSNESS
Cap"tious*ness, n.

Defn: Captious disposition or manner.

CAPTIVATE
Cap"ti*vate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Captivated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Captivating.] Etym: [L. captivatus, p. p. of captivare to capture,
fr. captivus captive. See Captive.]

1. To take prisoner; to capture; to subdue. [Obs.]
Their woes whom fortune captivates. Shak.

2. To acquire ascendancy over by reason of some art or attraction; to
fascinate; to charm; as, Cleopatra captivated Antony; the orator
captivated all hearts.
Small landscapes of captivating loveliness. W. Irving.

Syn.
 -- To enslave; subdue; overpower; charm; enchant; bewitch; facinate;
capture; lead captive.

CAPTIVATE
Cap"ti*vate, p. a. Etym: [L. captivatus.]

Defn: Taken prisoner; made captive; insnared; charmed.
Women have been captivate ere now. Shak.

CAPTIVATING
Cap"ti*va`ting, a.

Defn: Having power to captivate or cham; fascinating; as, captivating
smiles.
 -- Cap"tiva`ting*ly, adv.

CAPTIVATION
Cap"ti*va`tion, n. Etym: [L. capticatio.]

Defn: The act of captivating. [R.]
The captivation of our understanding. Bp. Hall.

CAPTIVE
Cap"tive, n. Etym: [L. captivus, fr. capere to take: cf. F. captif.
See Caitiff.]

1. A prisoner taken by force or stratagem, esp., by an enemy, in war;
one kept in bondage or in the power of another.
Then, when I am thy captive, talk of chains. Milton.

2. One charmed or subdued by beaty, excellence, or affection; one who
is captivated.

CAPTIVE
Cap"tive, a.

1. Made prisoner, especially in war; held in bondage or in
confinement.
A poor, miserable, captive thrall. Milton.

2. Subdued by love; charmed; captivated.
Even in so short a space, my wonan's heart Grossly grew captive to
his honey words. Shak.

3. Of or pertaining to bondage or confinement; serving to confine;
as, captive chains; captive hours.

CAPTIVE
Cap"tive, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Captived; p. pr. & vb. n. Captiving.]

Defn: To take prisoner; to capture.
Their inhabitans slaughtered and captived. Burke.

CAPTIVITY
Cap*tiv"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. captivitas: cf. F. captivité.]

1. The state of being a captive or a prisoner.
More celebrated in his captivity that in his greatest triumphs.
Dryden.

2. A state of being under control; subjection of the will or
affections; bondage.
Sink in the soft captivity together. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Imprisonment; confinement; bondage; subjection; servitude;
slavery; thralldom; serfdom.

CAPTOR
Cap"tor, n. Etym: [L., a cather (of animals), fr. caper to take.]

Defn: One who captures any person or thing, as a prisoner or a prize.

CAPTURE
Cap"ture, n. Etym: [L. capture, fr. caper to take: cf. F. capture.
See Caitiff, and cf. aptive.]

1. The act of seizing by force, or getting possession of by superior
power or by stratagem; as, the capture of an enemy, a vessel, or a
criminal.
Even with regard to captures made at sea. Bluckstone.

2. The securing of an object of strife or desire, as by the power of
some attraction.

3. The thing taken by force, surprise, or stratagem; a prize; prey.

Syn.
 -- Seizure; apprehension; arrest; detention.

CAPTURE
Cap"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Captured; p. pr. & vb. n. Capturing.]

Defn: To seize or take possession of by force, surprise, or
stratagem; to overcome and hold; to secure by effort.
Her heart is like some fortress that has been captured. W. Ivring.

CAPUCCIO
Ca*puc"cio, n. Etym: [It. cappucio. See Capoch.]

Defn: A capoch or hood. [Obs.] Spenser.

CAPUCHED
Ca*puched", a. Etym: [See Capoch.]

Defn: Cover with, or as with, a hood. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CAPUCHIN
Cap`u*chin", n. Etym: [F. capucin a monk who wears a cowl, fr. It.
cappuccio hood. See Capoch.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: A Franciscan monk of the austere branch established in 1526 by
Matteo di Baschi, distinguished by wearing the long pointed cowl or
capoch of St. Francis.
A bare-footed and long-bearded capuchin. Sir W. Scott.

2. A garment for women, consisting of a cloak and hood, resembling,
or supposed to resemble, that of capuchin monks.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A long-tailed South American monkey (Cabus capucinus), having the
forehead naked and wrinkled, with the hair on the crown reflexed and
resembling a monk's cowl, the rest being of a grayish white; --
called also capucine monkey, weeper, sajou, sapajou, and sai.
(b) Other species of Cabus, as C. fatuellus (the brown or horned
capucine.), C. albifrons (the cararara), and C. apella.
(c) A variety of the domestic pigeon having a hoodlike tuft of
feathers on the head and sides of the neck. Capuchin nun, one of an
austere order of Franciscan nuns which came under Capuchin rule in
1538. The order had recently been founded by Maria Longa.

CAPUCINE
Cap"u*cine, n.

Defn: See Capuchin, 3.

CAPULET
Cap"u*let, n. (Far.)

Defn: Same as Capellet.

CAPULIN
Cap"u*lin, n. Etym: [Sp. capuli.]

Defn: The Mexican chery (Prunus Capollin).

CAPUT
Ca"put, n.; pl. Capita. Etym: [L., the head.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The head; also, a knoblike protuberance or capitulum.

2. The top or superior part of a thing.

3. (Eng.)

Defn: The council or ruling body of the University of Cambridge prior
to the constitution of 1856.
Your caputs and heads of colleges. Lamb.
Caput mortuum (. Etym: [L., dead head.] (Old Chem.) The residuum
after distillation or sublimation; hence, worthless residue.

CAPYBARA
Ca`py*ba"ra, n. Etym: [Sp. capibara, fr. the native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South American rodent (Hydrochærus capybara) Living on
the margins of lakes and rivers. It is the largest extant rodent,
being about three feet long, and half that in height. It somewhat
resembles the Guinea pig, to which it is related; -- called also
cabiai and water hog.

CAR
Car, n. Etym: [OF. car, char, F. cahr, fr. L. carrus, Wagon: a Celtic
word; cf. W. car, Armor. karr, Ir. & Gael. carr. cf. Chariot.]

1. A small vehicle moved on wheels; usually, one having but two
wheels and drawn by one horse; a cart.

2. A vehicle adapted to the rails of a railroad. [U. S.]

Note: In England a railroad passenger car is called a railway
carriage; a freight car a goods wagon; a platform car a goods truck;
a baggage car a van. But styles of car introduced into England from
America are called cars; as, tram car. Pullman car. See Train.

3. A chariot of war or of triumph; a vehicle of splendor, dignity, or
solemnity. [Poetic].
The gilded car of day. Milton.
The towering car, the sable steeds. Tennyson.

4. (Astron.)

Defn: The stars also called Charles's Wain, the Great Bear, or the
Dipper.
The Pleiads, Hyads, and the Northern Car. Dryden.

5. The cage of a lift or elevator.

6. The basket, box, or cage suspended from a ballon to contain
passengers, ballast, etc.

7. A floating perforated box for living fish. [U. S.] Car coupling,
or Car coupler, a shackle or other device for connecting the cars in
a railway train. [U. S.] -- Dummy car (Railroad), a car containing
its own steam power or locomotive.
 -- Freight car (Railrood), a car for the transportation of
merchandise or other goods. [U. S.] -- Hand car (Railroad), a small
car propelled by hand, used by railroad laborers, etc. [U. S.] --
Horse car, or Street car, an ommibus car, draw by horses or other
power upon rails laid in the streets. [U. S.] -- Palace car, Drawing-
room car, Sleeping car, Parior caretc. , (Railroad), cars especially
designed and furnished for the comfort of travelers.

CARABAO
Ca`ra*ba"o, n. [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The water buffalo. [Phil. Islands]

CARABID
Car"a*bid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Carbus or family
Carabidæ.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Carabidæ, a family of active insectivorous beetles.

CARABINE
Car"a*bine, n. (Mil.)

Defn: A carbine.

CARABINEER
Car`a*bi*neer", n.

Defn: A carbineer.

CARABOID
Car"a*boid, a. Etym: [Carabus + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to the genus Carabus.

CARABUS
Car"a*bus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ground beetles, including numerous species. They
devour many injurious insects.

CARAC
Car"ac, n.

Defn: See Carack.

CARACAL
Car"a*cal, n. Etym: [F. caracal, fr. Turk garahgootag; garah black +
goofag ear.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lynx (Felis, or Lynx, caracal.) It is a native of Africa and
Asia. Its ears are black externally, and tipped with long black
hairs.

CARACARA
Ca"`ra*ca"ra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A south American bird of several species and genera, resembling
both the eagles and the vultures. The caracaras act as scavengers,
and are also called carrion buzzards.

Note: The black caracara is Ibycter ater; the chimango is Milvago
chimango; the Brazilian is Polyborus Braziliensis.

CARACK
Car"ack, n. Etym: [F. caraque (cf. Sp. & Pg. carraca, It. caracca.),
LL. carraca, fr. L. carrus wagon; or perh. fr. Ar. qorqur (pl.
qaraqir) a carack.] (Naut.)

Defn: A kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards and
Portuguese in the East India trade; a galleon. [Spelt also carrack.]
The bigger whale like some huge carrack law. Waller.

CARACOLE
Car"a*cole, n. Etym: [F. caracole, caracol, fr. Sp. caracol snail,
winding staircase, a wheeling about.]

1. (Man.)

Defn: A half turn which a horseman makes, either to the right or the
left.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A staircase in a spiral form. En caracole ( Etym: [F.], spiral;
-- said of a staircase.

CARACOLE
Car"a*cole, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Caracoled.] Etym: [Cf. F. caracoler.]
(Man.)

Defn: To move in a caracole, or in caracoles; to wheel.
Prince John caracoled within the lists. Sir W. Scott.

CARACOLY
Car"a*col`y, n.

Defn: An alloy of gold, silver, and copper, of which an inferior
quality of jewerly is made.

CARACORE; CARACORA
Car"a*core, Car"a*co`ra, n. Etym: [Malay kurakura.]

Defn: A light vessel or proa used by the people of Borneo, etc., and
by the Dutch in the East Indies.

CARACUL
Ca`ra*cul", n.

Defn: Var. of Karakul, a kind of fur.

CARAFE
Ca*rafe", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A glass water bottle for the table or toilet; -- called also
croft.

CARAGEEN; CARAGHEEN
Car"a*geen` or Car"a*gheen`, n.

Defn: See Carrageen.

CARAMBOLA
Ca`ram*bo"la, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An East Indian tree (Averrhoa Carambola), and its acid, juicy
fruit; called also Coromandel gooseberry.

CARAMEL
Car"a*mel, n. Etym: [F. caramel (cf. Sp. caramelo), LL. canna mellis,
cannamella, canamella, calamellus mellitus, sugar cane, from or
confused with L. canna reed + mel, mellis, honey. See Cane.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: Burnt sugar; a brown or black porous substance obtained by
heating sugar. It is soluble in water, and is used for coloring
spirits, gravies, etc.

2. A kind of confectionery, usually a small cube or square of
tenacious paste, or candy, of varying composition and flavor.

CARANGOID
Ca*ran"goid, a. Etym: [Caranx + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Carangidæ, a family of fishes allied to the
mackerels, and including the caranx, American bluefish, and the pilot
fish.

CARANX
Ca"ranx, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fishes, common on the Atlantic coast, including the
yellow or goldon mackerel.

CARAPACE
Car"a*pace, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The thick shell or sheild which cover the back of the tortoise,
or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals.

CARAPATO
Ca`ra*pa"to, n. Etym: [Pg. carrapato.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A south American tick of the genus Amblyamma. There are several
species, very troublesome to man and beast.

CARAPAX
Car"a*pax, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Carapace.

CARAT
Car"at, n. Etym: [F. carat (cf. It. carato, OPg. quirate, Pg. & Sp.
quilate), Ar. q bean or pea shell, a weight of four grins, a carat,
fr. Gr. Horn.]

1. The weight by which precious stones and pearls are weighed.

Note: The carat equals three and one fifth grains Troy, and is
divided into four grains, sometimes called carat grains. Diamonds and
other precious stones are estimated by carats and fractions of
carats, and pearls, usually, by carat grains. Titfany.

2. A twenty-fourth part; -- a term used in estimating the
proportionate fineness of gold.

Note: A mass of metal is said to be so many carats fine, according to
the number of twenty-fourths of pure gold which it contains; as, 22
carats fine (goldsmith's standard) = 22 parts of gold, 1 of copper,
and 1 of silver.

CARAVAN
Car"a*van, n. Etym: [F. caravane (cf. Sp. caravana), fr. Per. karmwan
a caravan (in sense 1). Cf. Van a wagon.]

1. A company of travelers, pilgrims, or merchants, organized and
equipped for a long journey, or marching or traveling together, esp.
through deserts and countries infested by robbers or hostile tribes,
as in Asia or Africa.

2. A large, covered wagon, or a train of such wagons, for conveying
wild beasts, etc., for exhibition; an itinerant show, as of wild
beasts.

3. A covered vehicle for carrying passengers or for moving furniture,
etc.; -- sometimes shorted into van.

CARAVANEER
Car`a*van*eer", n. Etym: [Cf. F. caravanier.]

Defn: The leader or driver of the camels in caravan.

CARAVANSARY
Car`a*van"sa*ry, n.; pl. Caravansaries Etym: [F. caravansérai, fr.
Per. karwansara\'8b; karwan caravan + -sara\'8b palace, large house,
inn.]

Defn: A kind of inn, in the East, where caravans rest at night, being
a large, rude, unfurnished building, surrounding a court. [Written
also caravanserai and caravansera.]

CARAVEL
Car"a*vel, n. Etym: [F. caravelle (cf. It. caravella, Sp. carabela),
fr. Sp. caraba a kind of vessel, fr. L. carabus a kind of light boat,
fr. Gr. [written also caravel and caravelle.] (Naut.)

Defn: A name given to several kinds of vessels.
(a) The caravel of the 16th century was a small vessel with broad
bows, high, narrow poop, four masts, and lateen sails. Columbus
commanded three caravels on his great voyage.
(b) A Portuguese vessel of 100 or 150 tons burden.
(c) A small fishing boat used on the French coast.
(d) A Turkish man-of-war.

CARAWAY
Car"a*way, n. Etym: [F. carvi (cf. Sp. carvi and al-caravea, al-
carahueya, Pg. al-caravia) fr. Ar. karawi\'befr. Gr. caraum.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A biennial plant of the Parsley family (Carum Carui). The seeds
have an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste. They are used in
cookery and confectionery, and also in medicine as a carminative.

2. A cake or sweetmeat containing caraway seeds.
Caraways, or biscuits, or some other [comfits]. Cogan.

CARBAMIC
Car*bam"ic, a. Etym: [Carbon + amido.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to an acid so called. Carbamic acid (Chem.), an
amido acid, NH2.CO2H, not existing in the free state, but occurring
as a salt of ammonium in commercial ammonium carbonate; -- called
also amido formic acid.

CARBAMIDE
Car*bam"ide, n. Etym: [Carbonyl + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: The technical name for urea.

CARBAMINE
Car*bam"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An isocyanide of a hydrocarbon radical. The carbamines are
liquids, usually colorless, and of unendurable odor.

CARBANIL
Car"ba*nil, n. Etym: [Carbonyl + aniline.] (Chem.)

Defn: A mobile liquid, CO.N.C6H5, of pungent odor. It is the phenyl
salt of isocyanic acid.

CARBAZOL
Car"ba*zol, n. Etym: [Carbon + azo + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystallized substance, C12H8NH, derived from aniline
and other amines.

CARBAZOTATE
Car*baz"o*tate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of carbazotic or picric acid; a picrate.

CARBAZOTIC
Car`ba*zot"ic, a. Etym: [Carbon + azole.]

Defn: Containing, or derived from, carbon and nitrogen. Carbazotic
acid (Chem.), picric acid. See under Picric.