

CERATOBRANCHIAL
Cer`a*to*bran"chi*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the bone, or cartilage, below the epibranchial in
a branchial arch.
 -- n.

Defn: A ceratobranchial bone, or cartilage.

CERATODUS
Ce*rat"o*dus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ganoid fishes, of the order Dipnoi, first known as
Mesozoic fossil fishes; but recently two living species have been
discovered in Australian rivers. They have lungs so well developed
that they can leave the water and breathe in air. In Australia they
are called salmon and baramunda. See Dipnoi, and Archipterygium.

CERATOHYAL
Cer`a*to*hy"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the bone, or carts, large, below the epihyal in
the hyoid arch.
 -- n.

Defn: A ceratohyal bone, or cartilage, which, in man, forms one of
the small horns of the hyoid.

CERATOSAURUS
Cer`a*to*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A carnivorous American Jurassic dinosaur allied to the European
Megalosaurus. The animal was nearly twenty feet in length, and the
skull bears a bony horn core on the united nasal bones. See
Illustration in Appendix.

CERATOSPONGIAE
Cer`a*to*spon"gi*æ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of sponges in which the skeleton consists of horny
fibers. It includes all the commercial sponges.

CERAUNICS
Ce*rau"nics, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: That branch of physics which treats of heat and electricity. R.
Park.

CERAUNOSCOPE
Ce*rau"no*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An instrument or apparatus employed in the ancient mysteries to
imitate thunder and lightning. T. Moore.

CERBEREAN
Cer*be"re*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or resembling, Cerberus. [Written also
Cerberian.]
With wide Cerberean mouth. Milton.

CERBERUS
Cer"be*rus, n. Etym: [L. Cerberus (in sense 1), gr.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A monster, in the shape, of a three-headed dog, guarding the
entrance into the infernal regions, Hence: Any vigilant custodian or
guardian, esp. if surly.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of East Indian serpents, allied to the pythons; the
bokadam.

CERCAL
Cer"cal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tail.

CERCARIA
Cer*ca"ri*a, n.; pl. Cercarle ( Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larval form of a trematode worm having the shape of a
tadpole, with its body terminated by a tail-like appendage.

CERCARIAN
Cer*ca"ri*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of, like, or pertaining to, the Cercariæ.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Cercariæ.

CERCOPOD
Cer"co*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. -pod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the jointed antenniform appendage of the posterior
somites of cartain insects. Packard.

CERCUS
Cer"cus, n.; pl. Cerci (. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Cercopod.

CERE
Cere, n. Etym: [L. cera wax: cf. F. cire.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey,
parrots, and some other birds. See Beak.

CERE
Cere, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cered; p. pr. & vb. n. Cering.] Etym: [L.
cerare, fr. cera wax: cf. F. cirer.]

Defn: To wax; to cover or close with wax. Wiseman.

CEREAL
Ce"re*al, a. Etym: [L. Cerealis pert. to Ceres, and hence, to
agriculture. See Ceres.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the grasses which are cultivated for their
edible seeds (as wheat, maize, rice, etc.), or to their seeds or
grain.

CEREAL
Ce"re*al n.

Defn: Any grass cultivated for its edible grain, or the grain itself;
-- usually in the plural.

CEREALIA
Ce`re*a"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [L. See Cereal.]

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: Public festivals in honor of Ceres.

2. The cereals. Crabb.

CEREALIN
Ce"re*a*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance closely resembling diastase, obtained
from bran, and possessing the power of converting starch into
dextrin, sugar, and lactic acid. Watts.

CEREBEL
Cer"e*bel, n.

Defn: The cerebellum. Derham.

CEREBELLAR; CEREBELLOUS
Cer`e*bel"lar, Cer`e*bel"lous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the cerebellum.

CEREBELLUM
Cer`e*bel"lum, n.; pl. E. Cerebellums (, L. Cerebella (. Etym: [L.,
dim. of cerebrum brain.] (Anat.)

Defn: The large lobe of the hind brain in front of and above the
medulla; the little brain. It controls combined muscular action. See
Brain.

CEREBRAL
Cer"e*bral, a. Etym: [L. cerebrum brain; akin to Gr. cérébral. See
Cheer.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cerebrum. Cerebral apoplexy. See under
Apoplexy.

CEREBRAL
Cer"e*bral, n. Etym: [A false translation of the Skr. murdhanya,
lit., head-sounds.]

Defn: One of a class of lingual consonants in the East Indian
languages. See Lingual, n.

Note: Prof. W. D. Whitney calls these letters linguals, and this is
their usual designation in the United States.

CEREBRALISM
Cer"e*bral*ism, n. (Philos.)

Defn: The doctrine or theory that psychical phenomena are functions
or products of the brain only.

CEREBRALIST
Cer"e*bral*ist, n.

Defn: One who accepts cerebralism.

CEREBRATE
Cer"e*brate, v. i. (Physiol.)

Defn: To exhibit mental activity; to have the brain in action.

CEREBRATION
Cer`e*bra"tion, n.

Defn: Action of the brain, whether conscious or unconscious.

CEREBRIC
Cer"e*bric, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the brain. Cerebric acid
(Physiol. Chem.), a name formerly sometimes given to cerebrin.

CEREBRICITY
Cer`e*bric"i*ty, n.

Defn: Brain power. [R.]

CEREBRIFORM
Ce*reb"ri*form, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + -form.]

Defn: Like the brain in form or substance.

CEREBRIFUGAL
Cer`e*brif"u*gal, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + L. fugere to flee.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the brain to the
spinal cord, and so transfer cerebral impulses (centrifugal
impressions) outwards.

CEREBRIN
Cer"e*brin, n. Etym: [From Cerebrum.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A nonphosphorized, nitrogenous substance, obtained from brain
and nerve tissue by extraction with boiling alcohol. It is uncertain
whether it exists as such in nerve tissue, or is a product of the
decomposition of some more complex substance.

CEREBRIPETAL
Cer`e*brip"e*tal, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + L. petere to seek.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the spinal cord to
the brain and so transfer sensations (centripetal impressions) from
the exterior inwards.

CEREBRITIS
Cer`e*bri"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. E. cerebrum + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the cerebrum.

CEREBROID
Cer"e*broid, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling, or analogous to, the cerebrum or brain.

CEREBROLOGY
Cer`e*brol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Cerebrum + -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of the cerebrum or brain.

CEREBROPATHY
Cer`e*brop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Cerebrum + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A hypochondriacal condition verging upon insanity, occurring in
those whose brains have been unduly taxed; -- called also brain fag.

CEREBROSCOPY
Cer`e*bros"co*py, n. Etym: [Cerebrum + -scopy.] (Med.)

Defn: Examination of the brain for the diagnosis of diseas; esp., the
act or process of diagnosticating the condition of the brain by
examination of the interior of the eye (as with an ophthalmoscope).
Buck.

CEREBROSE
Cer`e*brose", n. Etym: [From Cerebrum.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A sugarlike body obtained by the decomposition of the
nitrogenous non-phosphorized principles of the brain.

CEREBRO-SPINAL
Cer`e*bro-spi"nal, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + spinal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the central nervous system consisting of
the brain and spinal cord. Cerebro-spinal fluid (Physiol.), a serous
fluid secreted by the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord.
 -- Cerebro-spinal meningitis, Cerebro-spinal fever (Med.), a
dangerous epidemic, and endemic, febrile disease, characterized by
inflammation of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord, giving
rise to severe headaches, tenderness of the back of the neck,
paralysis of the ocular muscles, etc. It is sometimes marked by a
cutaneous eruption, when it is often called spotted fever. It is not
contagious.

CEREBRUM
Cer"e*brum, n.; pl. E. Cerebrums, L. Cerebra. Etym: [L., the brain.]
(Anat.)

Defn: The anterior, and in man the larger, division of the brain; the
seat of the reasoning faculties and the will. See Brain.

CERECLOTH
Cere"cloth`, n. Etym: [L. cera wax + E. cloth.]

Defn: A cloth smeared with melted wax, or with some gummy or
glutinous matter.
Linen, besmeared with gums, in manner of cerecloth. Bacon.

CEREMENT
Cere"ment, n. Etym: [L. cera wax: cf. F. cirement.]
(a) A cerecloth used for the special purpose of enveloping a dead
body when embalmed.
(b) Any shroud or wrapping for the dead.

CEREMONIAL
Cer`e*mo"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. caerimonialis: cf. F. cérimonial. See
Ceremony.]

1. Relating to ceremony, or external rite; ritual; according to the
forms of established rites.
Ceremonial observances and outward show. Hallam.

2. Observant of forms; ceremonious.

Note: [In this sense ceremonious is now preferred.] Donne.
He moves in the dull ceremonial track. Druden.

CEREMONIAL
Cer`e*mo"ni*al, n.

1. A system of rules and ceremonies, enjoined by law, or established
by custom, in religious worship, social intercourse, or the courts of
princes; outward form.
The gorgeous ceremonial of the Burgundian court. Prescott.

2. The order for rites and forms in the Roman Catholic church, or the
book containing the rules presribed to be observed on solemn
occasions.

CEREMONIALISM
Cer`e*mo"ni*al*ism, n.

Defn: Adherence to external rites; fondness for ceremony.

CEREMONIALLY
Cer`e*mo"ni*al*ly, adv.

Defn: According to rites and ceremonies; as, a person ceremonially
unclean.

CEREMONIALNESS
Cer`e*mo"ni*al*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being ceremonial.

CEREMONIOUS
Cer`e*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cérémonieux, L. Caerimoniosus.]

1. Consisting of outward forms and rites; ceremonial.

Note: [In this sense ceremonial is now preferred.]
The ceremonious part of His worship. South.

2. According to prescribed or customary rules and forms; devoted to
forms and ceremonies; formally respectful; punctilious. "Ceremonious
phrases." Addison.
Too ceremonious and traditional. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Formal; precise; exact. See Formal.

CEREMONIOUSLY
Cer`e*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a ceremonious way.

CEREMONIOUSNESS
Cer`e*mo"ni*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality, or practice, of being ceremonious.

CEREMONY
Cer"e*mo*ny, n.; pl. Ceremonies. Etym: [F. cérémonie, L. caerimonia;
perh. akin to E. create and from a root signifying to do or make.]

1. Ar act or series of acts, often of a symbolical character,
prescribed by law, custom, or authority, in the conduct of important
matters, as in the performance of religious duties, the transaction
of affairs of state, and the celebration of notable events; as, the
ceremony of crowning a sovereign; the ceremonies observed in
consecrating a church; marriage and baptismal ceremonies.
According to all the rites of it, and according to all the ceremonies
thereof shall ye keep it [the Passover]. Numb. ix. 3
Bring her up the high altar, that she may The sacred ceremonies there
partake. Spenser.
[The heralds] with awful ceremony And trumpet's sound, throughout the
host proclaim A solemn council. Milton.

2. Behavior regulated by strict etiquette; a formal method of
performing acts of civility; forms of civility prescribed by custom
or authority.
Ceremony was but devised at first To set a gloss on . . . hollow
welcomes . . . But where there is true friendship there needs none.
Shak.
Al ceremonies are in themselves very silly things; but yet a man of
the world should know them. Chesterfield.

3. A ceremonial symbols; an emblem, as a crown, scepter, garland,
etc. [Obs.]
Disrobe the images, If you find them decked with ceremonies. . . .
Let no images Be hung with Cæsar's trophies. Shak.

4. A sign or prodigy; a portent. [Obs.]
Cæsar, I never stood on ceremonies, Yet, now they fright me. Shak.
Master of ceremonies, an officer who determines the forms to be
observed, or superintends their observance, on a public occasion.
 -- Not to stand on ceremony, not to be ceremonious; to be familiar,
outspoken, or bold.

CEREOUS
Ce"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. cereus, fr. cera was.]

Defn: Waxen; like wax. [Obs.] Gayton.

CERES
Ce"res, n. Etym: [L., Ceres, also corn, grain, akin to E. create.]

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The daughter of Saturn and Ops or Rhea, the goddess of corn and
tillage.

2. (Actron.)

Defn: The first discovered asteroid.

CERESIN
Cer"e*sin, n. Etym: [L. cera wax.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white wax, made by bleaching and purifying ozocerite, and
used as a substitute for beeswax.

CEREUS
Ce"re*us, n. Etym: [L., a wax candle, fr. cera wax. So named from the
resemblance of one species to the columnar shape of a wax candle.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the Cactus family. They are natives of
America, from California to Chili.

Note: Although several species flower in the night, the name Night-
blooming cereus is specially applied to the Cereus grandiflorus,
which is cultivated for its beautiful, shortlived flowers. The Cereus
giganteus, whose columnar trunk is sometimes sixty feet in height, is
a striking feature of the scenery of New Mexico, Texas, etc.

CEREVIS
Cer"e*vis (ser"e*vis; G. tser`e*ves"), n. [G., fr. L. cerevisia,
cervisia, beer.]

Defn: A small visorless cap, worn by members of German student corps.
It is made in the corps colors, and usually bears the insignia of the
corps.

CERIA
Ce"ri*a (se"ri*a), n. (Chem.)

Defn: Cerium oxide, CeO2, a white infusible substance constituting
about one per cent of the material of the common incandescent mantle.

CERIAL
Cer"i*al, a.

Defn: Same as Cerial. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CERIFEROUS
Ce*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. ra wax + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing wax.

CERIN
Ce"rin, n. Etym: [L. cera wax + -in: cf. L. cerinus wax-colored.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A waxy substance extracted by alcohol or ether from cork;
sometimes applied also to the portion of beeswax which is soluble in
alcohol. Watts.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of the mineral allanite.

CERINTHIAN
Ce*rin"thi*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of an ancient religious sect, so called fron Cerinthus, a
Jew, who attempted to unite the doctrines of Christ with the opinions
of the Jews and Gnostics. Hook.

CERIPH
Cer"iph, n. (Type Founding)

Defn: One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine cross
strokes at the top and bottom of letters. [Spelt also seriph.]
Savage.

CERISE
Ce*rise", a. Etym: [F., a cherry. See Cherry.]

Defn: Cherry-colored; a light bright red; --- applied to textile
fabrics, especially silk.

CERITE
Ce"rite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A gastropod shell belonging to the family Cerithiïdæ; -- so
called from its hornlike form.

CERITE
Ce"rite, n. Etym: [From Cherium.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a brownish of cherry-red color, commonly massive.
It is a hydrous silicate of cerium and allied metals.

CERIUM
Ce"ri*um, n. Etym: [Named dy Berzelius in 1803 from the asteroid
Ceres, then just discovered (1801).] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element, occurring in the minerals cerite,
allanite, monazite, etc. Symbol Ce. Atomic weight 141.5. It resembles
iron in color and luster, but is soft, and both malleable and
ductile. It tarnishes readily in the air.

CERNUOUS
Cer"nu*ous, a. Etym: [L. cernuus with the face turned toward the
earth.] (Bot.)

Defn: Inclining or nodding downward; pendulous; drooping; -- said of
a bud, flower, fruit, or the capsule of a moss.

CERO
Ce"ro, n. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. Sp. sierra saw, sawfish, cero.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large and valuable fish of the Mackerel family, of the genus
Scomberomorus. Two species are found in the West Indies and less
commonly on the Atlantic coast of the United States, -- the common
cero (Scomberomorus caballa), called also kingfish, and spotted, or
king, cero (S. regalis).

CEROGRAPH
Ce"ro*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. khros wax + -graph.]

Defn: A writing on wax. Knight.

CEROGRAPHIC; CEROGRAPHICAL
Ce`ro*graph"ic, Ce`ro*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cerography.

CEROGRAPHIST
Ce*rog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One who practices cerography.

CEROGRAPHY
Ce*rog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

1. The art of making characters or designs in, or with, wax.

2. A method of making stereotype plates from inscribed sheets of wax.

CEROLITE
Cer"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. * wax + -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous silicate of magnesium, allied to serpentine,
occurring in waxlike masses of a yellow or greenish color.

CEROMA
Ce*ro"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. The unguent (a composition of oil and wax) with which wrestles
were anointed among the ancient Romans.

2. (Anc. Arch.)

Defn: That part of the baths and gymnasia in which bathers and
wrestlers anointed themselves.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cere of birds.

CEROMANCY
Cer"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by dropping melted wax in water.

CEROON
Ce*roon", n. Etym: [See Seroon.]

Defn: A bale or package. covered with hide, or with wood bound with
hide; as, a ceroon of indigo, cochineal, etc.

CEROPLASTIC
Ce`ro*plas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Fine arts)
(a) Relating to the art of modeling in wax.
(b) Modeled in wax; as, a ceroplastic figure.

CEROPLASTICS; CEROPLASTY
Ce`ro*plas"tics, Ce`ro*plas"ty, n. Etym: [Gr. céroplastique.]

Defn: The art of modeling in wax.

CEROSIN
Cer"o*sin, n. Etym: [L. cera wax.] (Chem.)

Defn: A waxy substance obtained from the bark of the sugar cane, and
crystallizing in delicate white laminæ.

CEROTE
Ce"rote, n. Etym: [Obs.]

Defn: See Cerate.

CEROTENE
Cer"o*tene, n. Etym: [L. cerotum a pomade. See Cerate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white waxy solid obtained from Chinese wax, and by the
distillation of cerotin.

CEROTIC
Ce*rot"ic, a. Etym: [See Cerotene.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax or Chinese wax; as,
cerotic acid or alcohol.

CEROTIN
Cer"o*tin, n. Etym: [See Cerotene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance, C27H55.OH, obtained from Chinese
wax, and regarded as an alcohol of the marsh gas series; -- called
also cerotic alcohol, ceryl alcohol.

CEROTYPE
Ce"ro*type`, n. [Gr.  wax + -type.]

Defn: A printing process of engraving on a surface of wax spread on a
steel plate, for electrotyping.

CERRIAL
Cer"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. cerreus, fr. cerrus a kind of oak.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cerris.
Chaplets green of cerrial oak. Dryden.

CERRIS
Cer"ris, n. Etym: [L. cerrus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of oak (Quercus cerris) native in the Orient and
southern Europe; -- called also bitter oak and Turkey oak.

CERTAIN
Cer"tain, a. Etym: [F. certain, fr. (assumed) LL. certanus, fr. L.
certus determined, fixed, certain, orig. p. p. of cernere to
perceive, decide, determine; akin to Gr. concern, critic, crime,
riddle a sieve, rinse, v.]

1. Assured in mind; having no doubts; free from suspicions
concerning.
To make her certain of the sad event. Dryden.
I myself am certain of you. Wyclif.

2. Determined; resolved; -- used with an infinitive.
However, I with thee have fixed my lot, Certain to undergo like doom.
Milton.

3. Not to be doubted or denied; established as a fact.
The dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure. Dan. ii.
45.

4. Actually existing; sure to happen; inevitable.
Virtue that directs our ways Through certain dangers to uncertain
praise. Dryden.
Death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all. Shak.

5. Unfailing; infallible.
I have often wished that I knew as certain a remedy for any other
distemper. Mead.

6. Fixed or stated; regular; determinate.
The people go out and gather a certain rate every day. Ex. xvi. 4.

7. Not specifically named; indeterminate; indefinite; one or some; --
sometimes used independenty as a noun, and meaning certain persons.
It came to pass when he was in a certain city. Luke. v. 12.
About everything he wrote there was a certain natural grace und
decorum. Macaulay.
For certain, assuredly.
 -- Of a certain, certainly.

Syn.
 -- Bound; sure; true; undeniable; unquestionable; undoubted; plain;
indubitable; indisputable; incontrovertible; unhesitating;
undoubting; fixed; stated.

CERTAIN
Cer"tain, n.

1. Certainty. [Obs.] Gower.

2. A certain number or quantity. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CERTAIN
Cer"tain, adv.

Defn: Certainly. [Obs.] Milton.

CERTAINLY
Cer"tain*ly, adv.

Defn: Without doubt or question; unquestionably.

CERTAINNESS
Cer"tain*ness, n.

Defn: Certainty.

CERTAINTY
Cer"tain*ty, n.; pl. Certainties. Etym: [OF. certaineté.]

1. The quality, state, or condition, of being certain.
The certainty of punishment is the truest security against crimes.
Fisher Ames.

2. A fact or truth unquestionable established.
Certainties are uninteresting and sating. Landor.

3. (Law)

Defn: Clearness; freedom from ambiguity; lucidity. Of a certainty,
certainly.

CERTES
Cer"tes, adv. Etym: [F. certes, for à certes, fr. L. certus. See
Certain.]

Defn: Certainly; in truth; verily. [Archaic]
Certes it great pity was to see Him his nobility so foul deface.
Spenser.

CERTIFICATE
Cer*tif"i*cate, n. Etym: [F. certificat, fr. LL. certificatus made
certain, p. p. of certificare. See tify.]

1. A written testimony to the truth of any fact; as, certificate of
good behavior.

2. A written declaration legally authenticated. Trial by certificate,
a trial which the testimony of the person certifying is the only
proper criterion of the point in dispute; as, when the issue is
whether a person was absent in the army, this is tried by the
certificate of the proper officer in writing, under his seal.
Blackstone.

CERTIFICATE
Cer*tif"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Certificated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Certificating.] Etym: [See Certify.]

1. To verify or vouch for by certificate.

2. To furnish with a certificate; as, to certificate the captain of a
vessel; a certificated teacher.

CERTIFICATION
Cer`ti*fi*ca"tion, n.Etym: [L. certificatio: cf. F. certification.]

Defn: The act of certifying.

CERTIFIER
Cer"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who certifies or assures.

CERTIFY
Cer"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Certified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Certifying.] Etym: [F. certifier, LL. certificare; L. certus certain
+ facere to make. See Certain, and cf. Certificate, v. t.]

1. To give cetain information to; to assure; to make certain.
We certify the king, that . . . thou shalt have no portion on this
side the river. Ezra iv. 16.

2. To give certain information of; to make certain, as a fact; to
verify. Hammond.
The industry of science at once certifies and greatly extends our
knowledge of the vastness of the creation. I. Taylor.

3. To testify to in writing; to make a declaration concerning, in
writing, under hand, or hand and seal.
The judges shall certify their opinion to the chancellor, and upon
such certificate the decree is usually founded. Blackstone.
Certified check, A bank check, the validity of which is certified by
the bank on which it is drawn.

CERTIORARI
Cer`ti*o*ra"ri, n. Etym: [So named from the emphatic word certiorari
in the Latin form of the writ, which read certiorar volumus we wish
to be certified.] (Law)

Defn: A writ issuing out of chancery, or a superior court, to call up
the records of a inferior court, or remove a cause there depending,
in order that the party may have more sure and speedy justice, or
that errors and irreguarities may be corrected. It is obtained upon
complaint of a party that he has not received justice, or can not
have an impartial trial in the inferior court.

Note: A certiorari is the correct process to remove the proceedings
of a court in which cases are tried in a manner different from the
course of the common law, as of county commissioners. It is also used
as an auxiliary process in order to obtain a full return to some
other process. Bouvier.

CERTITUDE
Cer"ti*tude, n. Etym: [LL. certitudo, fr. L. certus: cf. F.
certitude. See Certain.]

Defn: Freedom from doubt; assurance; certainty. J. H. Newman.

CERULE
Cer"ule, a. Etym: [L. caerulus, eguiv. to caeruleus.]

Defn: Blue; cerulean. [Obs.] Dyer.

CERULEAN
Ce*ru"le*an, a. Etym: [L. caeruleus.]

Defn: Sky-colored; blue; azure. Cowper.
Blue, blue, as if that sky let fall
A flower from its cerulean wall. Bryant.

CERULEIN
Ce*ru"le*in, n. [L. caeruleus sky-blue.] (Chem.)

Defn: A fast dyestuff, C20H8O6, made by heating gallein with strong
sulphuric acid. It dyes mordanted fabrics green.

CERULEOUS
Ce*ru"le*ous, a.

Defn: Cerulean. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

CERULESCENT
Ce`ru*les"cent, a. [L. caeruleus sky-blue + -escent.]

Defn: Tending to cerulean; light bluish.

CERULEUM
Ce*ru"le*um, n. [NL.]

Defn: A greenish blue pigment prepared in various ways, consisting
essentially of cobalt stannate. Unlike other cobalt blues, it does
not change color by gaslight.

CERULIFIC
Cer`u*lif"ic, a. Etym: [L.arulus dark blue + facere to make.]

Defn: Producing a blue or sky color. [R.]

CERUMEN
Ce*ru"men, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. cera wax.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The yellow, waxlike secretion from the glands of the external
ear; the earwax.

CERUMINOUS
Ce*ru"mi*nous, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or secreting, cerumen; as, the ceruminous
glands.

CERUSE
Ce"ruse, n. Etym: [F. céruse, L. cerussa.]

1. White lead, used as a pigment. See White lead, under White.

2. A cosmetic containing white lead.
To distinguish ceruse from natural bloom. Macaulay.

3. (Min.)

Defn: The native carbonate of lead.

CERUSED
Ce"rused, a.

Defn: Washed with a preparation of white lead; as, cerused face.
Beau. & Fl.

CERUSITE; CERUSSITE
Ce"ru*site, Ce"rus*site, n. (Min.)

Defn: Native lead carbonate; a mineral occurring in colorless, white,
or yellowish transparent crystals, with an adamantine, also massive
and compact.

CERVANTITE
Cer"van*tite, n. Etym: [Named from Cervantes a town in Spain.] (Min.)

Defn: See under Antimony.

CERVELAT
Cer"ve*lat, n. Etym: [F.] (Mus.)

Defn: An ancient wind instrument, resembling the bassoon in tone.

CERVICAL
Cer"vi*cal, a. Etym: [L. cervix, -icis, neck: cf. F. cervical.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the neck; as, the cervical vertebræ.

CERVICIDE
Cer"vi*cide, n. Etym: [L. cervus deer + caedere to kill.]

Defn: The act of killing deer; deer-slaying. [R.]

CERVINE
Cer"vine, a. Etym: [L. cervinus, fr. cervus deer: cf. F. cervin.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the deer, or to the family Cervidæ.

CERVIX
Cer"vix, n.; pl. E. Cervixes, L. Cervices. Etym: [L.] (Anat.)

Defn: The neck; also, the necklike portion of any part, as of the
womb. See Illust. of Bird.

CERVUS
Cer"vus, n. Etym: [L., a deer.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ruminants, including the red deer and other allied
species.

Note: Formerly all species of deer were included in the genus Cervus.

CERYL
Ce"ryl, n. Etym: [L. cera wax + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A radical, C27H55 supposed to exist in several compounds
obtained from Chinese wax, beeswax, etc.

CESAREAN; CESARIAN
Ce*sa"re*an, Ce*sa"ri*an, a.

Defn: Same as Cæsarean, Cæsarian.

CESARISM
Ce"sar*ism, n.

Defn: See Cæsarism.

CESPITINE
Ces"pi*tine, n. Etym: [L. caespes, caespitis, a turf.]

Defn: An oil obtained by distillation of peat, and containing various
members of the pyridine series.

CESPITITIOUS
Ces"pi*ti`tious, a. Etym: [L. caespiticius, fr. caespes turf.]

Defn: Same as Cespitious. [R.] Gough.

CESPITOSE
Ces"pi*tose`, a. Etym: [L. caespes turf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form a piece of turf, i. e., many stems from one
rootstock or from many entangled rootstocks or roots. [Written also
cæspitose.]

CESPITOUS
Ces"pi*tous, a. Etym: [See Cespitose.]

Defn: Pertaining to, consisting, of resembling, turf; turfy.
A cespitous or turfy plant has many stems from the same root, usually
forming a close, thick carpet of matting. Martyn.

CESS
Cess, n. Etym: [For sess, conts. from Assess.]

1. A rate or tax. [Obs. or Prof. Eng. & Scot.] Spenser.

2. Bound; measure. [Obs.]
The poor jade is wrung in the withers out of all cess. Shak.

CESS
Cess, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cessed; p. pr. & vb. n. Cessing.]

Defn: To rate; to tax; to assess. Spenser.

CESS
Cess, v. i. Etym: [F. cesser. See Cease.]

Defn: To cease; to neglect. [Obs.] Spenser.

CESSANT
Ces"sant a. Etym: [L. cessans, p. pr. of cessare. See Cease.]

Defn: Inactive; dormant [Obs.] W. Montagu.

CESSATION
Ces*sa"tion, n. Etym: [F. cessation, L. cessatio, fr. cessare. See
Cease.]

Defn: A ceasing of discontinuance, as of action, whether termporary
or final; a stop; as, a cessation of the war.
The temporary cessation of the papal iniquities. Motley.
The day was yearly observed for a festival by cessation from labor.
Sir J. Hayward.
Cessation of arms (Mil.), an armistice, or truce, agreed to by the
commanders of armies, to give time for a capitulation, or for other
purposes.

Syn.
 -- Stop; rest; stay; pause; discontinuance; intermission; interval;
respite; interruption; recess; remission.

CESSAVIT
Ces*sa"vit, n. Etym: [L., he has ceased.] [O. Eng. Law]

Defn: A writ given by statute to recover lands when the tenant has
for two years failed to perform the conditions of his tenure.

CESSER
Ces"ser, n. Etym: [From Cess, v. i.] (Law)

Defn: a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, for
two years.

CESSIBLE
Ces"si*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cessible. See Cession.]

Defn: Giving way; yielding. [Obs.] -- Ces`si*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.] Sir
K. Digby.

CESSION
Ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. cessio, fr. cedere to give way: cf. F.
Cession. See Cede.]

1. A yielding to physical force. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. Concession; compliance. [Obs.]

3. A yielding, or surrender, as of property or rights, to another
person; the act of ceding.
A cession of the island of New Orleans. Bancroft.

4. (Eccl. Law)

Defn: The giving up or vacating a benefice by accepting another
without a proper dispensation.

5. (Civil Law)

Defn: The voluntary surrender of a person's effects to his creditors
to avoid imprisonment.

CESSIONARY
Ces"sion*a*ry, a. Etym: [LL. cessionarius, from cessionare to cede,
fr. L. cessio: cf. F. cessionnaire. See Cession.]

Defn: Having surrendered the effects; as, a cessionary bankrupt.
Martin.

CESSMENT
Cess"ment, n. Etym: [From Cess, v. t.]

Defn: An assessment or tax. [Obs.] Johnson.

CESSOR
Ces"sor, n. Etym: [From Cess, v. i. Cf. Cesser.] (Law)

Defn: One who neglects, for two years, to perform the service by
which he holds lands, so that he incurs the danger of the writ of
cessavit. See Cessavit. Cowell.

CESSOR
Ces"sor, n. Etym: [From Cess, v. t.]

Defn: An assessor. [Obs.]

CESSPIPE
Cess`pipe", n.

Defn: A pipe for carrying off waste water, etc., from a sink or
cesspool. Knight.

CESSPOOL
Cess"pool`, n. Etym: [See Sesspol.]

Defn: A cistern in the course, or the termination, of a drain, to
collect sedimentary or superfluous matter; a privy vault; any
receptace of filth. [Written also sesspool.]

CEST
Cest, n. Etym: [L. cestus: cf. OF. ceste.]

Defn: A woman's girdle; a cestus. [R.] Collins.

CESTODE
Ces"tode, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Cestoidea.

CESTOID
Ces"toid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Cestoidea.

CESTOIDEA
Ces*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., gr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of parasitic worms (Platelminthes) of which the
tapeworms are the most common examples. The body is flattened, and
usually but not always long, and composed of numerous joints or
segments, each of which may contain a complete set of male and female
reproductive organs. They have neither mouth nor intestine. See
Tapeworm. [Written also Cestoda.]

CESTOLDEAN
Ces*told"e*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cestoidea.

CESTRACIONT
Ces*tra"ci*ont, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A shark of the genus Cestracion, and of related genera. The
posterior teeth form a pavement of bony plates for crushing
shellfish. Most of the species are extinct. The Port Jackson shark
and a similar one found in California are living examples.

CESTRACIONT
Ces*tra"ci*ont, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the genus Cestracion.

CESTUS
Ces"tus, n. Etym: [L. cestus girdle, Gr.

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: A girdle; particularly that of Aphrodite (or Venus) which gave
the wearer the power of exciting love.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Ctenophora. The typical species (Cestus Veneris) is
remarkable for its brilliant iridescent colors, and its long,
girdlelike form.

CESTUS
Ces"tus, n. Etym: [L. caestus, and cestus.] (Antiq.)

Defn: A covering for the hands of boxers, made of leather bands, and
often loaded with lead or iron.

CESTUY; CESTUI
Ces"tuy or Ces"tui, pron. Etym: [Norm. F.] (Law)

Defn: He; the one. Cestuy que trust ( Etym: [norm. F.], a person who
has the equitable and beneficial interest in property, the legal
interest in which is vested in a trustee. Wharton.
 -- Cestuy que use ( Etym: [Norm. F.], a person for whose use land,
etc., is granted to another.

CESURA
Ce*su"ra, n.

Defn: See Cæsura.

CESURAL
Ce*su"ral, a.

Defn: See Cæsural.

CETACEA
Ce*ta"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. cetus whale, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of marine mammals, including the whales. Like ordinary
mammals they breathe by means of lungs, and bring forth living young
which they suckle for some time. The anterior limbs are changed to
paddles; the tail flukes are horizontal. There are two living
suborders: (a) The Mysticete or whalebone whales, having no true
teeth after birth, but with a series of plates of whalebone [see
Baleen.] hanging down from the upper jaw on each side, thus making a
strainer, through which they receive the small animals upon which
they feed. (b) The Denticete, including the dolphins and sperm whale,
which have teeth. Another suborder (Zeuglodontia) is extinct. The
Sirenia were formerly included in the Cetacea, but are now made a
separate order.

CETACEAN
Ce*ta"cean, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cetacea.

CETACEOUS
Ce*ta"ceous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cetacea.

CETE
Ce"te, n. Etym: [L., pl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cetacea, or collectively, the Cetacea.

CETENE
Ce"tene, n. Etym: [See Cete.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oily hydrocarbon, C16H32, of the ethylene series, obtained
from spermaceti.

CETERACH
Cet"e*rach, n. Etym: [F. cétérac, fr. Ar. shetrak.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of fern with fronds (Asplenium Ceterach).

CETEWALE
Cet"e*wale, n. Etym: [OF. citoal, F. zedoaire. See Zedoary.]

Defn: Same as Zedoary. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CETIC
Ce"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a whale.

CETIN
Ce"tin, n. Etym: [L. cetus whale.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, waxy substance, forming the essential part of
spermaceti.

CETOLOGICAL
Ce`to*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to cetology.

CETOLOGIST
Ce*tol"o*gist, a.

Defn: One versed in cetology.

CETOLOGY
Ce*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. cétologie.]

Defn: The description or natural history of cetaceous animals.

CETRARIC
Ce*trar"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the lichen, Iceland moss
(Cetaria Islandica). Cetraric acid. See Cetrarin.

CETRARIN
Cet"ra*rin, n. Etym: [From Cetraria Islandica, the scientific name of
Iceland moss.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white substance extracted from the lichen, Iceland moss
(Cetraria Islandica). It consists of several ingredients, among which
is cetraric acid, a white, crystalline, bitter substance.

CETYL
Ce"tyl, n. Etym: [Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A radical, C16H33, not yet isolated, but supposed to exist in a
series of compounds homologous with the ethyl compounds, and derived
from spermaceti.

CETYLIC
Ce*tyl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, spermaceti. Cetylic alcohol
(Chem.), a white, waxy, crystalline solid, obtained from spermaceti,
and regarded as homologous with ordinary, or ethyl, alcohol; ethal; -
- called also cetyl alcohol.

CEYLANITE
Cey"lan*ite, n. Etym: [F., fr. Ceylan Ceylon.] (Min.)

Defn: A dingy blue, or grayish black, variety of spinel. It is also
called pleonaste. [Written also ceylonite.]

CEYLONESE
Cey`lon*ese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Ceylon.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Ceylon.

C.G.S.
C.G.S.

Defn: An abbreviation for Centimeter, Gram, Second.
 -- applied to a system of units much empoyed in physical science,
based upon the centimeter as the unit of length, the gram as the unit
of weight or mass, and the second as the unit of time.

C. G. S.
C. G. S.

Defn: An abbreviation for Centimeter, Gram, Second. -- applied to a
system of units much employed in physical science, based upon the
centimeter as the unit of length, the gram as the unit of weight or
mass, and the second as the unit of time.

C. G. T.
C. G. T.

Defn:  An abbreviation for Confédération Générale du Travail (the
French syndicalist labor union).

CHA
Cha (chä), n. [Chin. ch"a.] [Also chaa, chais, tsia, etc.]

Defn: Tea; -- the Chinese (Mandarin) name, used generally in early
works of travel, and now for a kind of rolled tea used in Central
Asia.

A pot with hot water . . . made with the powder of a certain herb
called chaa, which is much esteemed.
Tr. J. Van Linschoten's Voyages (1598).

CHAB
Chab, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The red-bellied wood pecker (Melanerpes Carolinus).

CHABASITE; CABAZITE
Chab"a*site, Cab"a*zite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occuring in glassy rhombohedral crystals, varying, in
color from white to yellow or red. It is essentially a hydrous
silicate of alumina and lime. Called also chabasie.

CHABLIS
Cha*blis", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A white wine made near Chablis, a town in France.

CHABOUK; CHABUK
Cha*bouk", Cha*buk", n. Etym: [Hind. chabuk horsewhip.]

Defn: A long whip, such as is used in the East in the infliction of
punishment. Balfour.

CHACE
Chace, n.

Defn: See 3d Chase, n., 3.

CHACE
Chace, v. t.

Defn: To pursue. See Chase v. t.

CHACHALACA
Cha`cha*la"ca, n. Etym: [Native name, prob. given in imitation of its
cry.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The texan guan (Ortalis vetula). [written also chiacalaca.]

CHACMA
Chac"ma, n. Etym: [Native name.]

Defn: A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius); --
called also ursine baboon.

Note: [See Illust. of Baboon.]

CHACONNE
Cha*conne", n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. chacona.] (Mus.)

Defn: An old Spanish dance in moderate three-four measure, like the
Passacaglia, which is slower. Both are used by classical composers as
themes for variations.

CHAD
Chad, n.

Defn: See Shad. [Obs.]

CHAETETES
Chæ*te"tes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fossil corals, common in the lower Silurian
limestones.

CHAETIFEROUS
Chæ*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. -ferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Bearing setæ.

CHAETODONT
Chæ"to*dont, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine fish of the family Chætodontidæ. The chætodonts have
broad, compressed bodies, and usually bright colors.

CHAETODONT
Chæto*dont, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Chætodonts or the family Chætodontidæ.

CHAETOGNATH
Chæ"tog*nath, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Chætognatha.

CHAETOGNATHA
Chæ*tog"na*tha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl)

Defn: An order of free-swimming marine worms, of which the genus
Sagitta is the type. They have groups of curved spines on each side
of the head.

CHAETOPOD
Chæ"to*pod, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Chætopoda.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Chætopoda.

CHAETOPODA
Chæ*top"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very extensive order of Annelida, characterized by the
presence of lateral setæ, or spines, on most or all of the segments.
They are divided into two principal groups: Oligochæta, including the
earthworms and allied forms, and Polychæta, including most of the
marine species.

CHAETOTAXY
Chæ"to*tax`y, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The arrangement of bristles on an insect.

CHAFE
Chafe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chafed; p pr. & vb. n. Chafing.] Etym:
[OE. chaufen to warm, OF. chaufer, F. chauffer, fr. L. calefacere,
calfacere, to make warm; calere to be warm + facere to make. See
Caldron.]

1. To ecxite heat in by friction; to rub in order to stimulate and
make warm.
To rub her temples, and to chafe her skin. Spenser.

2. To excite passion or anger in; to fret; to irritate.
Her intercession chafed him. Shak.

3. To fret and wear by rubbing; as, to chafe a cable.
Two slips of parchment which she sewed round it to prevent its being
chafed. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- To rub; fret; gall; vex; excite; inflame.

CHAFE
Chafe, v. i.

Defn: To rub; to come together so as to wear by rubbing; to wear by
friction.
Made its great boughs chafe together. Longfellow.
The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores. Shak.

2. To be worn by rubbing; as, a cable chafes.

3. To have a feeling of vexation; to be vexed; to fret; to be
irritated. Spenser.
He will chafe at the doctor's marrying my daughter. Shak.

CHAFE
Chafe, n.

1. Heat excited by friction.

2. Injury or wear caused by friction.

3. Vexation; irritation of mind; rage.
The cardinal in a chafe sent for him to Whitehall. Camden.

CHAFER
Chaf"er, n.

1. One who chafes.

2. A vessel for heating water; -- hence, a dish or pan.
A chafer of water to cool the ends of the irons. Baker.

CHAFER
Chaf"er, n. Etym: [AS. ceafor; akin to D. kever, G këfer.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of beetle; the cockchafer. The name is also applied to
other species; as, the rose chafer.

CHAFERY
Chaf"er*y, n. Etym: [See Chafe, v. t.] (Iron Works)

Defn: An open furnace or forge, in which blooms are heated before
being wrought into bars.

CHAFEWAX; CHAFFWAX
Chafe"wax`, or Chaff"wax`, n. (Eng. Law)

Defn: Formerly a chancery officer who fitted wax for sealing writs
and other documents.

CHAFEWEED
Chafe"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The cudweed (Gnaphalium), used to prevent or cure chafing.

CHAFF
Chaff, n. Etym: [AC. ceaf; akin to D. kaf, G. kaff.]

1. The glumes or husks of grains and grasses separated from the seed
by threshing and winnowing, etc.
So take the corn and leave the chaff behind. Dryden.
Old birds are not caught with caff. Old Proverb.

2. Anything of a comparatively light and worthless character; the
refuse part of anything.
The chaff and ruin of the times. Shak.

3. Straw or hay cut up fine for the food of cattle.
By adding chaff to his corn, the horse must take more time to eat it.
In this way chaff is very useful. Ywatt.

4. Light jesting talk; banter; raillery.

5. (Bot.)

Defn: The scales or bracts on the receptacle, which subtend each
flower in the heads of many Compositæ, as the sunflower. Gray. Chaff
cutter, a machine for cutting, up straw, etc., into "chaff" for the
use of cattle.

CHAFF
Chaff, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chaffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Chaffing.]

Defn: To use light, idle lagnguage by way of fun or ridicule; to
banter.

CHAFF
Chaff, v. t.

Defn: To make fun of; to turn into ridicule by addressing in ironical
or bantering language; to quiz.
Morgan saw that his master was chaffing him. Thackeray.
A dozen honest fellows . . . chaffed each other about their
sweethearts. C. Kingsley.

CHAFFER
Chaff"er, n.

Defn: One who chaffs.

CHAFFER
Chaf"fer, n. Etym: [OE. chaffare, cheapfare; AS. ceáp a bargain,
price + faru a journey; hence, originally, a going to barain, to
market. See Cheap, and Fare.]

Defn: Bargaining; merchandise. [Obs.] Holished.

CHAFFER
Chaf"fer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chaffered; p. pr. & vb. n. Chaffering.]
Etym: [OE. chaffaren, fr. chaffare, chapfare, cheapfare, a
bargaining. See Chaffer, n.]

1. To treat or dispute about a purchase; to bargain; to haggle or
higgle; to negotiate.
To chaffer for preferments with his gold. Dryden.

2. To talk much and idly; to chatter. Trench.

CHAFFER
Chaf"fer, v. t.

1. To buy or sell; to trade in.
He chaffered chairs in which churchmen were set. Spenser.

2. To exchange; to bandy, as words. Spenser.

CHAFFERER
Chaf"fer*er, n.

Defn: One who chaffers; a bargainer.

CHAFFERN
Chaf"fern, n. Etym: [See Chafe, v. t.]

Defn: A vessel for heating water. [Obs.] Johnson.

CHAFFERY
Chaf"fer*y, n.

Defn: Traffic; bargaining. [Obs.] Spenser.

CHAFFINCH
Chaf"finch, n. Etym: [Cf. Chiff-chaff.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird of Europe (Fringilla coelebs), having a variety of very
sweet songs, and highly valued as a cage bird; -- called also copper
finch.

CHAFFING
Chaff"ing, n.

Defn: The use of light, frivolous language by way of fun or ridicule;
raillery; banter.

CHAFFLESS
Chaff"less, a.

Defn: Without chaff.

CHAFFY
Chaff"y, a.

1. Abounding in, or resembling, chaff.
Chaffy grain beneath the thresher's flail. Coleridge.

2. Light or worthless as chaff.
Slight and chaffy opinion. Glanvill.

3. (Bot.)
(a) Resembling chaff; composed of light dry scales.
(b) Bearing or covered with dry scales, as the under surface of
certain ferns, or the disk of some composite flowers.

CHAFING
Chaf"ing, n. Etym: [See Chafe, v. t.]

Defn: The act of rubbing, or wearing by friction; making by rubbing.
Chafing dish, a dish or vessel for cooking on the table, or for
keeping food warm, either by coals, by a lamp, or by hot water; a
portable grate for coals.
 -- Chafing gear (Naut.), any material used to protect sails,
rigging, or the like, at points where they are exposed to friction.

CHAGREEN
Cha*green", n.

Defn: See Shagreen.

CHAGRES FEVER
Cha"gres fe"ver. (Med.)

Defn: A form of malarial fever occurring along the Chagres River,
Panama.

CHAGRIN
Cha*grin", n. Etym: [F., fr. chagrin shagreen, a particular kind of
rough and grained leather; also a rough fishskin used for graters and
files; hence (Fig.), a gnawing, corroding grief. See Shagreen.]

Defn: Vexation; mortification.
I must own that I felt rather vexation and chagrin than hope and
satisfaction. Richard Porson.
Hear me, and touch Belinda with chagrin. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Vexation; mortification; peevishness; fretfulness; disgust;
disquiet. Chagrin, Vexation, Mortification. These words agree in the
general sense of pain produced by untoward circumstances. Vexation is
a feeling of disquietude or irritating uneasiness from numerous
causes, such as losses, disappointments, etc. Mortification is a
stronger word, and denotes that keen sense of pain which results fron
wounded pride or humiliating occurrences. Chagrin is literally the
cutting pain produced by the friction of Shagreen leather; in its
figurative sense, it varies in meaning, denoting in its lower degrees
simply a state of vexation, and its higher degrees the keenest sense
of mortification. "Vexation arises chiefly fron our wishes and views
being crossed: mortification, from our self-importance being hurt;
chagrin, from a mixture of the two." Crabb.

CHAGRIN
Cha*grin", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chagrined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chargrining.] Etym: [Cf. F. chagriner See Chagrin, n.]

Defn: To excite ill-humor in; to vex; to mortify; as, he was not a
little chagrined.

CHAGRIN
Cha*grin", v. i.

Defn: To be vexed or annoyed. Fielding.

CHAGRIN
Cha*grin", a.

Defn: Chagrined. Dryden.

CHAIN
Chain, n. Etym: [F. chaîne, fr. L. catena. Cf. Catenate.]

1. A series of links or rings, usually of metal, connected, or fitted
into one another, used for various purposes, as of support, of
restraint, of ornament, of the exertion and transmission of
mechanical power, etc.
[They] put a chain of gold about his neck. Dan. v. 29.

2. That which confines, fetters, or secures, as a chain; a bond; as,
the chains of habit.
Driven down To chains of darkness and the undying worm. Milton.

3. A series of things linked together; or a series of things
connected and following each other in succession; as, a chain of
mountains; a chain of events or ideas.

4. (Surv.)

Defn: An instrument which consists of links and is used in measuring
land.

Note: One commonly in use is Gunter's chain, which consists of one
hundred links, each link being seven inches and ninety-two one
hundredths in length; making up the total length of rods, or sixty-
six, feet; hence, a measure of that length; hence, also, a unit for
land measure equal to four rods square, or one tenth of an acre.

5. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Iron links bolted to the side of a vessel to bold the dead-eyes
connected with the shrouds; also, the channels.

6. (Weaving)

Defn: The warp threads of a web. Knight. Chain belt (Mach.), a belt
made of a chain; -- used for transmitting power.
 -- Chain boat, a boat fitted up for recovering lost cables, anchors,
etc.
 -- Chain bolt (a) (Naut.) The bolt at the lower end of the chain
plate, which fastens it to the vessel's side. (b) A bolt with a chain
attached for drawing it out of position.
 -- Chain bond. See Chain timber.
 -- Chain bridge, a bridge supported by chain cables; a suspension
bridge.
 -- Chain cable, a cable made of iron links.
 -- Chain coral (Zoöl.), a fossil coral of the genus Halysites,
common in the middle and upper Silurian rocks. The tubular corallites
are united side by side in groups, looking in an end view like links
of a chain. When perfect, the calicles show twelve septa.
 -- Chain coupling. (a) A shackle for uniting lengths of chain, or
connecting a chain with an object. (b) (Railroad) Supplementary
coupling together of cars with a chain.
 -- Chain gang, a gang of convicts chained together.
 -- Chain hook (Naut.), a hook, used for dragging cables about the
deck.
 -- Chain mail, flexible, defensive armor of hammered metal links
wrought into the form of a garment.
 -- Chain molding (Arch.), a form of molding in imitation of a chain,
used in the Normal style.
 -- Chain pier, a pier suspended by chain.
 -- Chain pipe (Naut.), an opening in the deck, lined with iron,
through which the cable is passed into the lockers or tiers.
 -- Chain plate (Shipbuilding), one of the iron plates or bands, on a
vessel's side, to which the standing rigging is fastened.
 -- Chain pulley, a pulley with depressions in the periphery of its
wheel, or projections from it, made to fit the links of a chain.
 -- Chain pumps. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Chain rule (Arith.), a theorem for solving numerical problems by
composition of ratios, or compound proportion, by which, when several
ratios of equality are given, the consequent of each being the same
as the antecedent of the next, the relation between the first
antecedent and the last consequent is discovered.
 -- Chain shot (Mil.), two cannon balls united by a shot chain,
formerly used in naval warfare on account of their destructive effect
on a ship's rigging.
 -- Chain stitch. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Chain timber. (Arch.) See Bond timber, under Bond.
 -- Chain wales. (Naut.) Same as Channels.
 -- Chain wheel. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Closed chain, Open chain (Chem.), terms applied to the chemical
structure of compounds whose rational formulæ are written
respectively in the form of a closed ring (see Benzene nucleus, under
Benzene), or in an open extended form.
 -- Endless chain, a chain whose ends have been united by a link.

CHAIN
Chain, v. t. [imp. p. p. Chained (chand); p. pr. & vb. n. Chaining.]

1. To fasten, bind, or connect with a chain; to fasten or bind
securely, as with a chain; as, to chain a bulldog.
Chained behind the hostile car. Prior.

2. To keep in slavery; to enslave.
And which more blest who chained his country, say Or he whose virtue
sighed to lose a day Pope.

3. To unite closely and strongly.
And in this vow do chain my soul to thine. Shak.

4. (Surveying)

Defn: To measure with the chain.

5. To protect by drawing a chain across, as a harbor.

CHAINLESS
Chain"less, a.

Defn: Having no chain; not restrained or fettered. "The chainless
mind." Byron.

CHAINLET
Chain"let, n.

Defn: A small chain. Sir W. Scott.

CHAIN PUMP
Chain" pump`.

Defn: A pump consisting of an endless chain, running over a drum or
wheel by which it is moved, and dipping below the water to be raised.
The chain has at intervals disks or lifts which fit the tube through
which the ascending part passes and carry the water to the point of
discharge.

CHAIN STITCH
Chain" stitch`.

1. An ornamental stitch like the links of a chain; -- used in
crocheting, sewing, and embroidery.

2. (Machine Sewing)

Defn: A stitch in which the looping of the thread or threads forms a
chain on the under side of the work; the loop stitch, as
distinguished from the lock stitch. See Stitch.

CHAIN TIE
Chain tie. (Arch.)

Defn: A tie consisting of a series of connected iron bars or rods.

CHAIN WHEEL
Chain" wheel`.

1. A chain pulley, or sprocket wheel.

2. An inversion of the chain pump, by which it becomes a motor driven
by water.

CHAINWORK
Chain"work`, n.

Defn: Work looped or linked after the manner of a chain; chain stitch
work.

CHAIR
Chair, n. Etym: [OE. chaiere, chaere, OF. chaiere, chaere, F. chaire
pulpit, fr. L. cathedra chair, armchair, a teacher's or professor's
chair, Gr. sit. See Sit, and cf. Cathedral, chaise.]

1. A movable single seat with a back.

2. An official seat, as of a chief magistrate or a judge, but esp.
that of a professor; hence, the office itself.
The chair of a philosophical school. Whewell.
A chair of philology. M. Arnold.

3. The presiding officer of an assembly; a chairman; as, to address
the chair.

4. A vehicle for one person; either a sedan borne upon poles, or two-
wheeled carriage, drawn by one horse; a gig. Shak.
Think what an equipage thou hast in air, And view with scorn two
pages and a chair. Pope.

5. An iron blok used on railways to support the rails and secure them
to the sleepers. Chair days, days of repose and age.
 -- To put into the chair, to elect as president, or as chairman of a
meeting. Macaulay.
 -- To take the chair, to assume the position of president, or of
chairman of a meeting.

CHAIR
Chair, v. t. [imp. & p. pr. Chaired; p. pr. & vb. n. Chairing.]

1. To place in a chair.

2. To carry publicly in a chair in triumph. [Eng.]

CHAIRMAN
Chair"man, n.; pl. Chairmen (.

1. The presiding officer of a committee, or of a public or private
meeting, or of any organized body.

2. One whose business it is to cary a chair or sedan.
Breaks watchmen's heads and chairmen's glasses. Prior.

CHAIRMANSHIP
Chair"man*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a chairman of a meeting or organized body.

CHAISE
Chaise, n. Etym: [F. chaise seat, or chair, chaise or carriage, for
chaire, from a peculiar Parisian pronunciation. See Chair.]

1. A two-wheeled carriage for two persons, with a calash top, and the
body hung on leather straps, or thoroughbraces. It is usually drawn
by one horse.

2. Loosely,

Defn: a carriage in general. Cowper.

CHAJA
Cha"ja, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, or Chauna,
chavaria), so called in imitation of its notes; -- called also
chauna, and faithful kamichi. It is often domesticated and is useful
in guarding other poultry. See Kamichi.

CHAK
Chak, v. i.

Defn: To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid the
restraint of the bridle.

CHALAZA
Cha*la"za, n.; pl. E. Chalazas, L. Chalazæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The place on an ovule, or seed, where its outer coats cohere
with each other and the nucleus.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A spiral band of thickened albuminous substance which exists in
the white of the bird's egg, and serves to maintain the yolk in its
position; the treadle.

CHALAZAL
Cha*la"zal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the chalaza.

CHALAZE
Cha*laze", n.

Defn: Same as Chalaza.

CHALAZIFEROUS
Chal`a*zif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Chalaza + -ferous.]

Defn: Having or bearing chalazas.

CHALAZION
Cha*la"zi*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A small circumscribed tumor of the eyelid caused by retention
of secretion, and by inflammation of the Melbomian glands.

CHALAZOGAMY
Chal`a*zog"a*my, n.  [Chalaza + -gamy, as in polygamy.] (Bot.)

Defn: A process of fecundation in which the pollen tube penetrates to
the embryosac through the tissue of the chalaza, instead of entering
through the micropyle. It was originally discovered by Treub in
Casuarina, and has since been found to occur regularly in the
families Betulaceæ and Juglandaceæ. Partial chalazogamy is found in
Ulmus, the tube here penetrating the nucleus midway between the
chalaza and micropyle. --Chal`a*zo*gam"ic (#), a.

CHALCANTHITE
Chal*can"thite, n. Etym: [L. chalcanthum a solution of blue vitriol,
Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Native blue vitriol. See Blue vitriol, under Blue.

CHALCEDONIC
Chal"ce*don"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to chalcedony.

CHALCEDONY
Chal*ced"o*ny, n.; pl. Chalcedonies. Etym: [ L. chalcedonius, fr. Gr.
calcédoine, OE. calcidoine, casidoyne. Cf. Cassidony.] (Min.)

Defn: A cryptocrystalline, translucent variety of quartz, having
usually a whitish color, and a luster nearly like wax. [Written also
calcedony.]

Note: When chalcedony is variegated with with spots or figures, or
arranged in differently colored layers, it is called agate; and if by
reason of the thickness, color, and arrangement of the layers it is
suitable for being carved into cameos, it is called onyx. Chrysoprase
is green chalcedony; carnelian, a flesh red, and sard, a brownish red
variety.

CHALCHIHUITL
Chal`chi*huitl, n. (Min.)

Defn: The Mexican name for turquoise. See Turquoise.

CHALCID FLY
Chal"cid fly`. Etym: [From Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a numerous family of hymenopterous insects (Chalcididæ.
Many are gallflies, others are parasitic on insects.

CHALCIDIAN
Chal*cid"i*an, n. Etym: [L. chalcis a lizard, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tropical family of snakelike lizards (Chalcidæ),
having four small or rudimentary legs.

CHALCOCITE
Chal"co*cite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Native copper sulphide, called also copper glance, and vitreous
copper; a mineral of a black color and metallic luster. [Formerly
written chalcosine.]

CHALCOGRAPHER; CHALCOGRAPHIST
Chal*cog"ra*pher, Chal*cog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: An engraver on copper or brass; hence, an engraver of copper
plates for printing upon paper.

CHALCOGRAPHY
Chal*cog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The act or art of engraving on copper or brass, especially of
engraving for printing.

CHALCOPYRITE
Chal`co*pyr"ite, n. Etym: [Gr. pyrite. So named from its color.]
(Min.)

Defn: Copper pyrites, or yellow copper ore; a common ore of opper,
containing copper, iron, and sulphur. It occurs massive and in
tetragonal crystals of a bright brass yellow color.

CHALDAIC
Chal*da"ic, a. Etym: [L. Chaldaicus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Chaldes.
 -- n.

Defn: The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; Chaldee.

CHALDAISM
Chal"da*ism, n.

Defn: An idiom or peculiarity in the Chaldee dialect.

CHALDEAN
Chal*de"an, a. Etym: [L. Chaldaeus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Chaldea.
 -- n.
(a) A native or inhabitant of Chaldea.
(b) A learned man, esp. an astrologer; -- so called among the Eastern
nations, because astrology and the kindred arts were much cultivated
by the Chaldeans.
(c) Nestorian.

CHALDEE
Chal"dee, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Chaldea.
 -- n.

Defn: The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; eastern Aramaic, or
the Aramaic used in Chaldea. Chaldee Paraphrase, A targum written in
Aramaic.

CHALDRICH; CHALDER
Chal"drich, Chal"der, n. Etym: [Icel. tjaldr.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of bird; the oyster catcher.

CHALDRON
Chal"dron, n. Etym: [OF. chaldron, F. chaudron kettle. The same word
as caldron.]

Defn: An English dry measure, being, at London, 36 bushels heaped up,
or its equivalent weight, and more than twice as much at Newcastle.
Now used exlusively for coal and coke.

Note: In the United States the chaldron is ordinarily 2,940 lbs, but
at New York it is 2,500 lbs. De Colange.

CHALET
Cha*let", n. Etym: [F.]

1. A herdsman's hut in the mountains of Switzerland.
Chalets are summer huts for the Swiss herdsmen. Wordsworth.

2. A summer cottage or country house in the Swiss mountains; any
country house built in the style of the Swiss cottages.

CHALICE
Chal"ice, n. Etym: [OR. chalis, calice, OF. chalice, calice, F.
calice, fr. L. calix, akin to Gr. helmet. Cf. Calice, Calyx.]

Defn: A cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of the
Lord's Supper.

CHALICED
Chal"iced, a.

Defn: Having a calyx or cup; cupshaped. "Chaliced flowers." Shak.

CHALK
Chalk, n. Etym: [AS. cealc lime, from L. calx limestone. See Calz,
and Cawk.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowish
white color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the same
composition as common limestone.

2. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Finely prepared chalk, used as a drawing implement; also, by
extension, a compound, as of clay and black lead, or the like, used
in the same manner. See Crayon. Black chalk, a mineral of a bluish
color, of a slaty texture, and soiling the fingers when handled; a
variety of argillaceous slate.
 -- By a long chalk, by a long way; by many degrees. [Slang] Lowell.
 -- Chalk drawing (Fine Arts), a drawing made with crayons. See
Crayon.
 -- Chalk formation. See Cretaceous formation, under Cretaceous.
 -- Chalk line, a cord rubbed with chalk, used for making straight
lines on boards or other material, as a guide in cutting or in
arranging work.
 -- Chalk mixture, a preparation of chalk, cinnamon, and sugar in gum
water, much used in diarrheal affection, esp. of infants.
 -- Chalk period. (Geol.) See Cretaceous period, under Cretaceous.
 -- Chalk pit, a pit in which chalk is dug.
 -- Drawing chalk. See Crayon, n., 1.
 -- French chalk, steatite or soapstone, a soft magnesian mineral.
 -- Red chalk, an indurated clayey ocher containing iron, and used by
painters and artificers; reddle.

CHALK
Chalk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chalked; p. pr. & vb. n. Chalking.]

1. To rub or mark with chalk.

2. To manure with chalk, as land. Morimer.

3. To make white, as with chalk; to make pale; to bleach. Tennyson.
Let a bleak paleness chalk the door. Herbert.
To chalk out, to sketch with, or as with, chalk; to outline; to
indicate; to plan. [Colloq.] "I shall pursue the plan I have chalked
out." Burke.

CHALKCUTTER
Chalk"cut`ter, n.

Defn: A man who digs chalk.

CHALKINESS
Chalk"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being chalky.

CHALKSTONE
Chalk"stone`, n.

1. A mass of chalk.
As chalkstones . . . beaten in sunder. Isa. xxvii. 9.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A chalklike concretion, consisting mainly of urate of sodium,
found in and about the small joints, in the external ear, and in
other situations, in those affected with gout; a tophus.

CHALKY
Chalk"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, chalk; containing chalk; as, a
chalky cliff; a chalky taste.

CHALLENGE
Chal"lenge, n. Etym: [OE. chalenge claim, accusation, challenge, OF.
chalenge, chalonge, claim, accusation, contest, fr. L. calumnia false
accusation, chicanery. See Calumny.]

1. An invitation to engage in a contest or controversy of any kind; a
defiance; specifically, a summons to fight a duel; also, the letter
or message conveying the summons.
A challenge to controversy. Goldsmith.

2. The act of a sentry in halting any one who appears at his post,
and demanding the countersign.

3. A claim or demand. [Obs.]
There must be no challenge of superiority. Collier.

4. (Hunting)

Defn: The opening and crying of hounds at first finding the scent of
their game.

5. (Law)

Defn: An exception to a juror or to a member of a court martial,
coupled with a demand that he should be held incompetent to act; the
claim of a party that a certain person or persons shall not sit in
trial upon him or his cause. Blackstone

6. An exception to a person as not legally qualifed to vote. The
challenge must be made when the ballot is offered. [U. S.] Challenge
to the array (Law), an exception to the whole panel.
 -- Challenge to the favor, the alleging a special cause, the
sufficiency of which is to be left to those whose duty and office it
is to decide upon it.
 -- Challenge to the polls, an exception taken to any one or more of
the individual jurors returned.
 -- Peremptory challenge, a privilege sometimes allowed to
defendants, of challenging a certain number of jurors (fixed by
statute in different States) without assigning any cause.
 -- Principal challenge, that which the law allows to be sufficient
if found to be true.

CHALLENGE
Chal"lenge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Challenged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Challenging.] Etym: [OE. chalengen to accuse, claim, OF. chalengier,
chalongier, to claim, accuse, dispute, fr. L. calumniar to attack
with false accusations. See Challenge, n., and cf. Calumniate.]

1. To call to a contest of any kind; to call to answer; to defy.
I challenge any man to make any pretense to power by right of
fatherhood. Locke.

2. To call, invite, or summon to answer for an offense by personal
combat.
By this I challenge him to single fight. Shak.

3. To claim as due; to demand as a right.
Challenge better terms. Addison.

4. To censure; to blame. [Obs.]
He complained of the emperors . . . and challenged them for that he
had no greater revenues . . . from them. Holland.

5. (Mil.)

Defn: To question or demand the countersign from (one who attempts to
pass the lines); as, the sentinel challenged us, with "Who comes
there"

6. To take exception to; question; as, to challenge the accuracy of a
statement or of a quotation.

7. (Law)

Defn: To object to or take exception to, as to a juror, or member of
a court.

8. To object to the reception of the vote of, as on the ground that
the person in not qualifed as a voter. [U. S.] To challenge to the
array, favor, polls. See under Challenge, n.

CHALLENGE
Chal"lenge, v. i.

Defn: To assert a right; to claim a place.
Where nature doth with merit challenge. Shak.

CHALLENGEABLE
Chal"lenge*a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be challenged.

CHALLENGER
Chal"len*ger, n.

Defn: One who challenges.

CHALLIS
Chal"lis, n. Etym: [F. chaly, challis, a stuff made of goat's hair.]

Defn: A soft and delicate woolen, or woolen and silk, fabric, for
ladies' dresses. [Written also chally.]

CHALON
Cha"lon, n.

Defn: A bed blanket. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CHALYBEAN
Cha*lyb"e*an, a. Etym: [L. chalybeïus, fr. chalybs steel, Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to the Chalybes, an ancient people of Pontus in
Asia Minor, celebrated for working in iron and steel.

2. Of superior quality and temper; -- applied to steel. [Obs.]
Milton.

CHALYBEATE
Cha*lyb"e*ate, a. Etym: [NL. chalybeatus, fr. chalubeïus. See
Chalubean.]

Defn: Impregnated with salts of iron; having a taste like iron; as,
chalybeate springs.

CHALYBEATE
Cha*lyb"e*ate, n.

Defn: Any water, liquid, or medicine, into which iron enters as an
ingredient.

CHALYBEOUS
Cha*lyb"e*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Steel blue; of the color of tempered steel.

CHALYBITE
Chal"y*bite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Native iron carbonate; -- usually called siderite.

CHAM
Cham, v. t. Etym: [See Chap.]

Defn: To chew. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Sir T. More.

CHAM
Cham, n. Etym: [See Khan.]

Defn: The sovereign prince of Tartary; -- now usually written khan.
Shak.

CHAMADE
Cha*made, n. Etym: [F. chamade, fr. Pg. chamada, fr. chamar to call,
fr. L. clamare.] (Mil.)

Defn: A signal made for a parley by beat of a drum.
They beat the chamade, and sent us carte blanche. Addison.

CHAMAL
Cha"mal, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Angora goat. See Angora goat, under Angora.

CHAMBER
Cham"ber, n. Etym: [F. chambre, fr. L. camera vault, arched roof, in
LL. chamber, fr. Gr. kmar to be crooked. Cf. Camber, Camera,
Comrade.]

1. A retired room, esp. an upper room used for sleeping; a bedroom;
as, the house had four chambers.

2. pl.

Defn: Apartments in a lodging house. "A bachelor's life in chambers."
Thackeray.

3. A hall, as where a king gives audience, or a deliberative body or
assembly meets; as, presence chamber; senate chamber.

4. A legislative or judicial body; an assembly; a society or
association; as, the Chamber of Deputies; the Chamber of Commerce.

5. A compartment or cell; an inclosed space or cavity; as, the
chamber of a canal lock; the chamber of a furnace; the chamber of the
eye.

6. pl. (Law.)

Defn: A room or rooms where a lawyer transacts business; a room or
rooms where a judge transacts such official business as may be done
out of court.

7. A chamber pot. [Colloq.]

8. (Mil.)
(a) That part of the bore of a piece of ordnance which holds the
charge, esp. when of different diameter from the rest of the bore; --
formerly, in guns, made smaller than the bore, but now larger, esp.
in breech-loading guns.
(b) A cavity in a mine, usually of a cubical form, to contain the
powder.
(c) A short piece of ornance or cannon, which stood on its breech,
without any carriage, formerly used chiefly for rejoicings and
theatrical cannonades. Air chamber. See Air chamber, in the
Vocabulary.
 -- Chamber of commerce, a board or association to protect the
interests of commerce, chosen from among the merchants and traders of
a city.
 -- Chamber council, a secret council. Shak.
 -- Chamber counsel or counselor, a counselor who gives his opinion
in private, or at his chambers, but does not advocate causes in
court.
 -- Chamber fellow, a chamber companion; a roommate; a chum.
 -- Chamber hangings, tapestry or hangings for a chamber.
 -- Chamber lye, urine. Shak.
 -- Chamber music, vocal or instrumental music adapted to performance
in a chamber or small apartment or audience room, instead of a
theater, concert hall, or chuch.
 -- Chamber practice (Law.), the practice of counselors at law, who
give their opinions in private, but do not appear in court.
 -- To sit at chambers, to do business in chambers, as a judge.

CHAMBER
Cham"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chambered; p. pr. & vb. n. Chambering.]

1. To reside in or occupy a chamber or chambers.

2. To be lascivious. [Obs.]

CHAMBER
Cham"ber, v. t.

1. To shut up, as inn a chamber. Shak.

2. To furnish with a chamber; as, to chamber a gun.

CHAMBERED
Cham"bered, a.

Defn: Having a chamber or chambers; as, a chambered shell; a
chambered gun.

CHAMBERER
Cham"ber*er, n.

1. One who attends in a chamber; a chambermaid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A civilian; a carpetmonger. [Obs.]

CHAMBERING
Cham"ber*ing, n.

Defn: Lewdness. [Obs.] Rom. xiii. 13.

CHAMBERLAIN
Cham"ber*lain, n. Etym: [OF. chamberlain, chambrelencF. chambellon,
OHG. chamerling, chamarlinc, G. kämmerling, kammer chamber (fr. L.
camera) + -ling. See Chamber, and -ling.] [Formerly written
chamberlin.]

1. An officer or servant who has charge of a chamber or chambers.

2. An upper servant of an inn. [Obs.]

3. An officer having the direction and management of the private
chambers of a nobleman or monarch; hence, in Europe, one of the high
officers of a court.

4. A treasurer or receiver of public money; as, the chamberlain of
London, of North Wales, etc. The lord chamberlain of England, an
officer of the crown, who waits upon the sovereign on the day of
coronation, and provides requisites for the palace of Westminster,
and for the House of Lords during the session of Parliament. Under
him are the gentleman of the black rod and other officers. His office
is distinct from that of the lord chamberlain of the Household, whose
functions relate to the royal housekeeping.

CHAMBERLAINSHIP
Cham"ber*lain*ship, n.

Defn: Office if a chamberlain.

CHAMBERMAID
Cham"ber*maid`, n.

1. A maidservant who has the care of chambers, making the beds,
sweeping, cleaning the rooms, etc.

2. A lady's maid. [Obs.] Johnson.

CHAMBERTIN
Cham`ber*tin", n.

Defn: A red wine from Chambertin near Dijon, in Burgundy.

CHAMBRANLE
Cham`bran"le, n. [F.] (Arch.)

Defn: An ornamental bordering or framelike decoration around the
sides and top of a door, window, or fireplace. The top piece is
called the traverse and the side pieces the ascendants.

CHAMBRAY
Cham"bray, n. [From Cambrai, France. Cf. Cambric.]

Defn: A gingham woven in plain colors with linen finish.

CHAMBREL
Cham"brel, n.

Defn: Same as Gambrel.

CHAMECK
Cha*meck", n. Etym: [Native Brazilian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of spider monkey (Ateles chameck), having the thumbs
rudimentary and without a nail.

CHAMELEON
Cha*me"le*on, n. Etym: [L. Chamaeleon, Gr. Humble, and Lion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lizardlike reptile of the genus Chamæleo, of several species,
found in Africa, Asia, and Europe. The skin is covered with fine
granmulations; the tail is prehensile, and the body is much
compressed laterally, giving it a high back.

Note: Its color changes more or less with the color of the objects
about it, or with its temper when disturbed. In a cool, dark place it
is nearly white, or grayish; on admitting the light, it changes to
brown, bottle-green, or blood red, of various shades, and more or
less mottled in arrangment. The American chameleons belong to Anolis
and allied genera of the family Iguanidæ. They are more slender in
form than the true chameleons, but have the same power of changing
their colors. Chameleon mineral (Chem.), the compound called
potassium permanganate, a dark violet, crystalline substance, KMnO4,
which in formation passes through a peculiar succession of color from
green to blue, purple, red, etc. See Potassium permanganate, under
Potassium.

CHAMELEONIZE
Cha*me"le*on*ize, v. t.

Defn: To change into various colors. [R.]

CHAMFER
Cham"fer, n. Etym: [See Chamfron.]

Defn: The surface formed by cutting away the arris, or angle, formed
by two faces of a piece of timber, stone, etc.

CHAMFER
Cham"fer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chamfered ; p. pr. & vb. n.
Chamfering.(

1. (Carp.)

Defn: To cut a furrow in, as in a column; to groove; to channel; to
flute.

2. To make a chamfer on.

CHAMFRET
Cham"fret, n. Etym: [See Chamfron.]

1. (Carp.)

Defn: A small gutter; a furrow; a groove.

2. A chamfer.

CHAMFRON
Cham"fron, n. Etym: [F. chanfrein.] (Anc. Armor)

Defn: The frontlet, or head armor, of a horse. [Written also
champfrain and chamfrain.]

CHAMISAL
Cha`mi*sal", n. [Amer. Sp., fr. Sp. chamiza a kind of wild cane.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A California rosaceous shrub (Adenostoma fasciculatum) which
often forms an impenetrable chaparral.

2.  A chaparral formed by dense growths of this shrub.

CHAMLET
Cham"let, n.

Defn: See Camlet. [Obs.]

CHAMOIS
Cham"ois, n. Etym: [F. chamois, prob. fr. OG. gamz, G. gemse.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small species of antelope (Rupicapra tragus), living on the
loftiest mountain ridges of Europe, as the Alps, Pyrenees, etc. It
possesses remarkable agility, and is a favorite object of chase.

2. A soft leather made from the skin of the chamois, or from
sheepskin, etc.; -- called also chamois leather, and chammy or shammy
leather. See Shammy.

CHAMOMILE
Cham"o*mile, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Camomile.

CHAMP
Champ, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Champed; p. pr. & vb. n. Champing.] Etym:
[Prob, of Scand. orgin; cf. dial. Sw. kämsa to chew with difficulty,
champ; but cf. also OF. champier, champeyer, champoyer, to graze in
fields, fr. F. champ field, fr. L. campus. Cf. Camp.]

1. To bite with repeated action of the teeth so as to be heard.
Foamed and champed the golden bit. Dryden.

2. To bite into small pieces; to crunch. Steele.

CHAMP
Champ, v. i.

Defn: To bite or chew impatiently.
They began . . . irefully to champ upon the bit. Hooker.

CHAMP; CHAMPE
Champ, Champe, n. Etym: [F. champ, L. campus field.] (Arch.)

Defn: The field or ground on which carving appears in relief.

CHAMPAGNE
Cham*pagne", n. Etym: [F. See Champaign.]

Defn: A light wine, of several kinds, originally made in the province
of Champagne, in France.

Note: Champagne properly includes several kinds not only of sparkling
but off still wines; but in America the term is usually restricted to
wines which effervesce.

CHAMPAIGN
Cham*paign", n. Etym: [OF. champaigne; same word as campagne.]

Defn: A flat, open country.
Fair champaign, with less rivers interveined. Milton.
Through Apline vale or champaign wide. Wordsworth.

CHAMPAIGN
Cham*paign", a.

Defn: Flat; open; level.
A wide, champaign country, filled with herds. Addison.

CHAMPER
Champ"er, n.

Defn: One who champs, or bites.

CHAMPERTOR
Cham"per*tor, n. Etym: [F. champarteur a divider of fields or field
rent. See Champerty.] (Law)

Defn: One guilty of champerty; one who purchases a suit, or the right
of suing, and carries it on at his own expense, in order to obtain a
share of the gain.

CHAMPERTY
Cham"per*ty, n. Etym: [F. champart field rent, L. campipars; champ
(L. campus) field + part (L. pars) share.]

1. Partnership in power; equal share of authority. [Obs.]
Beauté ne sleighte, strengthe ne hardyness, Ne may with Venus holde
champartye. Chaucer.

2. (Law)

Defn: The prosecution or defense of a suit, whether by furnishing
money or personal services, by one who has no legitimate concern
therein, in consideration of an agreement that he shall receive, in
the event of success, a share of the matter in suit; maintenance with
the addition of an agreement to divide the thing in suit. See
Maintenance.

Note: By many authorities champerty is defined as an agreement of
this nature. From early times the offence of champerty has been
forbidden and punishable.

CHAMPIGNON
Cham*pi"gnon, n. Etym: [F., a mushroom, ultimately fr. L. campus
field. See Camp.] (Bot.)

Defn: An edible species of mushroom (Agaricus campestris). Fairy ring
champignon, the Marasmius oreades, which has a strong flavor but is
edible.

CHAMPION
Cham"pi*on, n. Etym: [F. champion, fr. LL.campio, of German origin;
cf. OHG. chempho, chemphio, fighter, champf, G. kampf, contest; perh.
influenced by L. campus field, taken in the sense of "field of
battle."]

1. One who engages in any contest; esp. one who in ancient times
contended in single combat in behalf of another's honor or rights; or
one who acts or speaks in behalf of a person or a cause; a defender;
an advocate; a hero.
A stouter champion never handled sword. Shak.
Champions of law and liberty. Fisher Ames.

2. One who by defeating all rivals, has obtained an acknowledged
supremacy in any branch of athetics or game of skill, and is ready to
contend with any rival; as, the champion of England.

Note: Champion is used attributively in the sense of surpassing all
competitors; overmastering; as, champion pugilist; champion chess
player.

Syn.
 -- Leader; chieftain; combatant; hero; warrior; defender; protector.

CHAMPION
Cham"pi*on, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Championed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Championing.] [Obs.] Shak.

2. To furnish with a champion; to attend or defend as champion; to
support or maintain; to protect.
Championed or unchampioned, thou diest. Sir W. Scott.

CHAMPIONNESS
Cham"pi*on*ness, n.

Defn: A female champion. Fairfax.

CHAMPIONSHIP
Cham"pi*on*ship, n.

Defn: State of being champion; leadership; supremancy.

CHAMPLAIN PERIOD
Cham*plain" pe"ri*od. (Geol.)

Defn: A subdivision of the Quaternary age immediately following the
Glacial period; -- so named from beds near Lake Champlain.

Note: The earlier deposits of this period are diluvial in character,
as if formed in connection with floods attending the melting of the
glaciers, while the later deposits are of finer material in more
quiet waters, as the alluvium.

CHAMPLEVE
Champ`le*vé", a. [F., p. p. of champlever to engrave. See 3d Champ,
Camp, Lever a bar.] (Art)

Defn: Having the ground engraved or cut out in the parts to be
enameled; inlaid in depressions made in the ground; -- said of a kind
of enamel work in which depressions made in the surface are filled
with enamel pastes, which are afterward fired; also, designating the
process  of making such enamel work. --n.

Defn: A piece of champlevé enamel; also, the process or art of making
such enamel work; champlevé work.

CHAMSIN
Cham*sin", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Kamsin.

CHANCE
Chance, n. Etym: [F. chance, OF. cheance, fr. LL. cadentia a allusion
to the falling of the dice), fr. L. cadere to fall; akin to Skr. çad
to fall, L. cedere to yield, E. cede. Cf. Cadence.]

1. A supposed material or psychical agent or mode of activity other
than a force, law, or purpose; fortune; fate; -- in this sense often
personifed.
It is strictly and philosophically true in nature and reason that
there is no such thing as chance or accident; it being evident that
these words do not signify anything really existing, anything that is
truly an agent or the cause of any event; but they signify merely
men's ignorance of the real and immediate cause. Samuel Clark.
Any society into which chance might throw him. Macaulay.
That power Which erring men call Chance. Milton.

2. The operation or activity of such agent.
By chance a priest came down that way. Luke x. 31.

3. The supposed effect of such an agent; something that befalls, as
the result of unknown or unconsidered forces; the issue of uncertain
conditions; an event not calculated upon; an unexpected occurrence; a
happening; accident; fortuity; casualty.
It was a chance that happened to us. 1 Sam. vi. 9.
The Knave of Diamonds tries his wily arts, And wins (O shameful
chance!) the Queen of Hearts. Pope.
I spake of most disastrous chance. Shak.

4. A possibity; a likelihood; an opportunity; -- with reference to a
doubtful result; as, a chance result; as, a chance to escape; a
chance for life; the chances are all against him.
So weary with disasters, tugged with fortune. That I would get my
life on any chance, To mend it, or be rid on't Shak.

5. (Math.)

Defn: Probability.

Note: The mathematical expression, of a chance is the ratio of
frequency with which an event happens in the long run. If an event
may happen in a ways and may fail in b ways, and each of these a + b
ways is equally likely, the chance, or probability, that the event
will happen is measured by the fraction a/(a + b), and the chance, or
probability, that it will fail is measured by b/(a + b). Chance
comer, one who, comes unexpectedly.
 -- The last chance, the sole remaining ground of hope.
 -- The main chance, the chief opportunity; that upon which reliance
is had, esp. self-interest.
 -- Theory of chances, Doctrine of chances (Math.), that branch of
mathematics which treats of the probability of the occurrence of
particular events, as the fall of dice in given positions.
 -- To mind one's chances, to take advantage of every circumstance;
to seize every opportunity.

CHANCE
Chance, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chanced; p. pr. & vb. n. Chancing.]

Defn: To happen, come, or arrive, without design or expectation.
"Things that chance daily." Robynson (More's Utopia).
If a bird's nest chance to be before thee. Deut. xxii. 6.
I chanced on this letter. Shak.

Note: Often used impersonally; as, how chances it
How chance, thou art returned so soon Shak.

CHANCE
Chance, v. t.

1. To take the chances of; to venture upon; -- usually with it as
object.
Come what will, I will chance it. W. D. Howells.

2. To befall; to happen to. [Obs.] W. Lambarde.

CHANCE
Chance, a.

Defn: Happening by chance; casual.

CHANCE
Chance, adv.

Defn: By chance; perchance. Gray.

CHANCEABLE
Chance"a*ble, a.

Defn: Fortuitous; casual. [Obs.]

CHANCEABLY
Chance"a*bly, adv.

Defn: By chance. [Obs.]

CHANCEFUL
Chance"ful, a.

Defn: Hazardous. [Obs.] Spenser.

CHANCEL
Chan"cel, n. Etym: [OF. chancel, F. chanceau, cancel, fr. L. cancelli
lattices, crossbars. (The chancel was formerly inclosed with lattices
or crossbars) See Cancel, v. t.] (Arch.)
(a) That part of a church, reserved for the use of the clergy, where
the altar, or communion table, is placed. Hence, in modern use;
(b) All that part of a cruciform church which is beyond the line of
the transept farthest from the main front. Chancel aisle (Arch.), the
aisle which passes on either side of or around the chancel.
 -- Chancel arch (Arch.), the arch which spans the main opening,
leading to the chancel -- Chancel casement, the principal window in a
chancel. Tennyson.
 -- Chancel table, the communion table.

CHANCELLERY
Chan"cel*ler*y, n. Etym: [Cf. Chancery.]

Defn: Chancellorship. [Obs.] Gower.

CHANCELLOR
Chan"cel*lor, n. Etym: [OE. canceler, chaunceler, F. chancelier, LL.
cancellarius chancellor, a director of chancery, fr. L. cancelli
lattices, crossbars, which surrounded the seat of judgment. See
Chancel.]

Defn: A judicial court of chancery, which in England and in the
United States is distinctively a court with equity jurisdiction.

Note: The chancellor was originally a chief scribe or secretary under
the Roman emperors, but afterward was invested with judicial powers,
and had superintendence over the other officers of the empire. From
the Roman empire this office passed to the church, and every bishop
has his chancellor, the principal judge of his consistory. In later
times, in most countries of Europe, the chancellor was a high officer
of state, keeper of the great seal of the kingdom, and having the
supervision of all charters, and like public instruments of the
crown, which were authenticated in the most solemn manner. In France
a secretary is in some cases called a chancellor. In Scotland, the
appellation is given to the foreman of a jury, or assize. In the
present German empire, the chancellor is the president of the federal
council and the head of the imperial administration. In the United
States, the title is given to certain judges of courts of chancery or
equity, established by the statutes of separate States. Blackstone.
Wharton. Chancellor of a bishop, or of a diocese (R. C. Ch. & ch. of
Eng.), a law officer appointed to hold the bishop's court in his
diocese, and to assist him in matter of ecclesiastical law.
 -- Chancellor of a cathedral, one of the four chief dignitaries of
the cathedrals of the old foundation, and an officer whose duties are
chiefly educational, with special reference to the cultivation of
theology.
 -- Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, an officer before whom, or
his deputy, the court of the duchy chamber of Lancaster is held. This
is a special jurisdiction.
 -- Chancellor of a university, the chief officer of a collegiate
body. In Oxford, he is elected for life; in Cambridge, for a term of
years; and his office is honorary, the chief duties of it devolving
on the vice chancellor.
 -- Chancellor of the exchequer, a member of the British cabinet upon
whom devolves the charge of the public income and expenditure as the
highest finance minister of the government.
 -- Chancellor of the order of the Garter (or other military orders),
an officer who seals the commissions and mandates of the chapter and
assembly of the knights, keeps the register of their proceedings, and
delivers their acts under the seal of their order.
 -- Lord high chancellor of England, the presiding judge in the court
of chancery, the highest judicial officer of the crown, and the first
lay person of the state after the blood royal. He is created
chancellor by the delivery into his custody of the great seal, of
which he becomes keeper. He is privy counselor by his office, and
prolocutor of the House of Lords by prescription.

CHANCELLORSHIP
Chan"cel*lor*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a chancellor; the time during which one is
chancellor.

CHANCE-MEDLEY
Chance"-med`ley, n. Etym: [Chance + medley.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The kiling of another in self-defense upon a sudden and
unpremeditated encounter. See Chaud-Medley.

Note: The term has been sometimes applied to any kind of homicide by
misadventure, or to any accidental killing of a person without
premeditation or evil intent, but, in strictness, is applicable to
such killing as happens in defending one's self against assault.
Bouvier.

2. Luck; chance; accident. Milton. Cowper.

CHANCERY
Chan"cer*y, n. Etym: [F. chancellerie, LL. cancellaria, from L.
cancellarius. See Chancellor, and cf. Chancellery.]

1. In England, formerly, the highest court of judicature next to the
Parliament, exercising jurisdiction at law, but chiefly in equity;
but under the jurisdiction act of 1873 it became the chancery
division of the High Court of Justice, and now exercises jurisdiction
only in equity.

2. In the Unites States, a court of equity; equity; proceeding in
equity.

Note: A court of chancery, so far as it is a court of equity, in the
English and American sense, may be generally, if not precisely,
described as one having jurisdiction in cases of rights, recognized
and protected by the municipal jurisprudence, where a plain,
adequate, and complete remedy can not be had in the courts of common
law. In some of the American States, jurisdiction at law and in
equity centers in the same tribunal. The courts of the United States
also have jurisdiction both at law and in equity, and in all such
cases they exercise their jurisdiction, as courts of law, or as
courts of equity, as the subject of adjudication may require. In
others of the American States, the courts that administer equity are
distinct tribunals, having their appropriate judicial officers, and
it is to the latter that the appellation courts of chancery is
usually applied; but, in American law, the terms equity and court of
equity are more frequently employed than the corresponding terms
chancery and court of chancery. Burrill. Inns of chancery. See under
Inn.
 -- To get (or to hold) In chancery (Boxing), to get the head of an
antagonist under one's arm, so that one can pommel it with the other
fist at will; hence, to have wholly in One's power. The allusion is
to the condition of a person involved in the chancery court, where he
was helpless, while the lawyers lived upon his estate.

CHANCRE
Chan"cre, n. Etym: [F. chancere. See Cancer.] (Med.)

Defn: A venereal sore or ulcer; specifically, the initial lesion of
true syphilis, whether forming a distinct ulcer or not; -- called
also hard chancre, indurated chancre, and Hunterian chancre. Soft
chancre. A chancroid. See Chancroid.

CHANCROID
Chan"croid, n. Etym: [Chancre + -oil.] (Med.)

Defn: A venereal sore, resembling a chancre in its seat and some
external characters, but differing from it in being the starting
point of a purely local process and never of a systemic disease; --
called also soft chancre.

CHANCROUS
Chan"crous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chancreux.] (Med.)

Defn: Of the nature of a chancre; having chancre.

CHANDELIER
Chan`de*lier", n. Etym: [F. See Chandler.]

1. A candlestick, lamp, stand, gas fixture, or the like, having
several branches; esp., one hanging from the ceiling.

2. (Fort.)

Defn: A movable parapet, serving to support fascines to cover
pioneers. [Obs.]

CHANDLER
Chan"dler, n. Etym: [F. chandelier a candlestick, a maker or seller
of candles, LL. candelarius chandler, fr. L. candela candle. See
Candle, and cf. Chandelier.]

1. A maker or seller of candles.
The chandler's basket, on his shoulder borne, With tallow spots thy
coat. Gay.

2. A dealer in other commodities, which are indicated by a word
prefixed; as, ship chandler, corn chandler.

CHANDLERLY
Chan"dler*ly, a.

Defn: Like a chandler; in a petty way. [Obs.] Milton.

CHANDLERY
Chan"dler*y, n.

Defn: Commodities sold by a chandler.

CHANDOO
Chan*doo", n.

Defn: An extract or preparation of opium, used in China and India for
smoking. Balfour.

CHANDRY
Chan"dry, n.

Defn: Chandlery. [Obs.] "Torches from the chandry." B. Jonson.

CHANFRIN
Chan"frin, n. Etym: [F. chanfrein. Cf. Chamfron.]

Defn: The fore part of a horse's head.

CHANGE
Change, v. t. [Imp. & p. p. Changed; p. pr. & vb. n. Changing.] Etym:
[F. changer, fr. LL. cambiare, to exchange, barter, L. cambire. Cf.
Cambial.]

1. To alter; to make different; to cause to pass from one state to
another; as, to change the position, character, or appearance of a
thing; to change the countenance.
Therefore will I change their glory into shame. Hosea. iv. 7.

2. To alter by substituting something else for, or by giving up for
something else; as, to change the clothes; to change one's
occupation; to change one's intention.
They that do change old love for new, Pray gods, they change for
worse! Peele.

3. To give and take reciprocally; to exchange; -- followed by with;
as, to change place, or hats, or money, with another.
Look upon those thousands with whom thou wouldst not, for any
interest, change thy fortune and condition. Jer. Taylor.

4. Specifically: To give, or receive, smaller denominations of money
(technically called change) for; as, to change a gold coin or a bank
bill.
He pulled out a thirty-pound note and bid me change it. Goldsmith.
To change a horse, or To change hand (Man.), to turn or bear the
horse's head from one hand to the other, from the left to right, or
from the right to the left.
 -- To change hands, to change owners.
 -- To change one's tune, to become less confident or boastful.
[Colloq.] -- To change step, to take a break in the regular
succession of steps, in marching or walking, as by bringing the
hollow of one foot against the heel of the other, and then stepping
off with the foot which is in advance.

Syn.
 -- To alter; vary; deviate; substitute; innovate; diversify; shift;
veer; turn. See Alter.

CHANGE
Change, v. i.

1. To be altered; to undergo variation; as, men sometimes change for
the better.
For I am Lord, I change not. Mal. iii. 6.

2. To pass from one phase to another; as, the moon changes to-morrow
night.

CHANGE
Change, n. Etym: [F. change, fr. changer. See Change. v. t.]

1. Any variation or alteration; a passing from one state or form to
another; as, a change of countenance; a change of habits or
principles.
Apprehensions of a change of dynasty. Hallam.
All the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come.
Job xiv. 14.

2. A succesion or substitution of one thing in the place of another;
a difference; novelty; variety; as, a change of seasons.
Our fathers did for change to France repair. Dryden.
The ringing grooves of change. Tennyson.

3. A passing from one phase to another; as, a change of the moon.

4. Alteration in the order of a series; permutation.

5. That which makes a variety, or may be substituted for another.
Thirty change (R.V. changes) of garments. Judg. xiv. 12.

6. Small money; the money by means of which the larger coins and bank
bills are made available in small dealings; hence, the balance
returned when payment is tendered by a coin or note exceeding the sum
due.

7. Etym: [See Exchange.]

Defn: A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; a
building appropriated for mercantile transactions. [Colloq. for
Exchange.]

8. A public house; an alehouse. [Scot.]
They call an alehouse a change. Burt.

9. (Mus.)

Defn: Any order in which a number of bells are struck, other than
that of the diatonic scale.
Four bells admit twenty-four changes in ringing. Holder.
Change of life, the period in the life of a woman when menstruation
and the capacity for conception cease, usually occurring between
forty-five and fifty years of age.
 -- Change ringing, the continual production, without repetition, of
changes on bells, See def. 9. above.
 -- Change wheel (Mech.), one of a set of wheels of different sizes
and number of teeth, that may be changed or substituted one for
another in machinery, to produce a different but definite rate of
angular velocity in an axis, as in cutting screws, gear, etc.
 -- To ring the changes on, to present the same facts or arguments in
variety of ways.

Syn.
 -- Variety; variation; alteration; mutation; transition;
vicissitude; innovation; novelty; transmutation; revolution; reverse.

CHANGEABILITY
Change`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Changeableness.

CHANGEABLE
Change"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. changeable.]

1. Capable of change; subject to alteration; mutable; variable;
fickle; inconstant; as, a changeable humor.

2. Appearing different, as in color, in different lights, or under
different circumstances; as, changeable silk.

Syn.
 -- Mutable; alterable; variable; inconstant; fitful; vacillating;
capricious; fickle; unstable; unsteady; unsettled; wavering; erratic;
giddy; volatile.

CHANGEABLENESS
Change"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being changeable; fickleness; inconstancy;
mutability.

CHANGEABLY
Change"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a changeable manner.

CHANGEFUL
Change"ful, a.

Defn: Full of change; mutable; inconstant; fickle; uncertain. Pope.
His course had been changeful. Motley.
-- Change"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Change"ful*ness, n.

CHANGE GEAR
Change gear. (Mach.)

Defn: A gear by means of which the speed of machinery or of a vehicle
may be changed while that of the propelling engine or motor remains
constant; -- called also change-speed gear.

CHANGE KEY
Change key.

Defn: A key adapted to open only one of a set of locks; --
distinguished from a master key.

CHANGELESS
Change"less, a.

Defn: That can not be changed; constant; as, a changeless purpose.
 -- Change"less*ness, n.

CHANGELING
Change"ling, n. Etym: [Change + -ling.]

1. One who, or that which, is left or taken in the place of another,
as a child exchanged by fairies.
Such, men do changelings call, so changed by fairies' theft. Spenser.
The changeling [a substituted writing] never known. Shak.

2. A simpleton; an idiot. Macaulay.
Changelings and fools of heaven, and thence shut out.
Wildly we roam in discontent about. Dryden.

3. One apt to change; a waverer. "Fickle changelings." Shak.

CHANGELING
Change"ling, a.

1. Taken or left in place of another; changed. "A little changeling
boy." Shak.

2. Given to change; inconstant. [Obs.]
Some are so studiously changeling. Boyle.

CHANGER
Chan"ger, n.

1. One who changes or alters the form of anything.

2. One who deals in or changes money. John ii. 14.

3. One apt to change; an inconstant person.

CHANK
Chank", n. Etym: [Skr. çankha. See Conch.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The East Indian name for the large spiral shell of several
species of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinella
pyrum. Called also chank chell.

CHANNEL
Chan"nel, n. Etym: [OE. chanel, canel, OF. chanel, F. chenel, fr. L.
canalis. See Canal.]

1. The hollow bed where a stream of water runs or may run.

2. The deeper part of a river, harbor, strait, etc., where the main
current flows, or which affords the best and safest passage for
vessels.

3. (Geog.)

Defn: A strait, or narrow sea, between two portions of lands; as, the
British Channel.

4. That through which anything passes; means of passing, conveying,
or transmitting; as, the news was conveyed to us by different
channels.
The veins are converging channels. Dalton.
At best, he is but a channel to convey to the National assembly such
matter as may import that body to know. Burke.

5. A gutter; a groove, as in a fluted column.

6. pl. Etym: [Cf. Chain wales.] (Naut.)

Defn: Flat ledges of heavy plank bolted edgewise to the outside of a
vessel, to increase the spread of the shrouds and carry them clear of
the bulwarks. Channel bar, Channel iron (Arch.), an iron bar or beam
having a section resembling a flat gutter or channel.
 -- Channel bill (Zoöl.), a very large Australian cucko (Scythrops
Novæhollandiæ.
 -- Channel goose. (Zoöl.) See Gannet.