

COLOSSEAN
Col`os*se"an, a.

Defn: Colossal. [R.]

COLOSSEUM
Col`os*se"um, n. Etym: [Neut., fr. L. coloseus gigantic. See
Coliseum.]

Defn: The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome. [Also written Coliseum.]

COLOSSUS
Co*los"sus, n.; pl. L. Colossi, E. Colossuses. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A statue of gigantic size. The name was especially applied to
certain famous statues in antiquity, as the Colossus of Nero in Rome,
the Colossus of Apollo at Rhodes.
He doth bestride the narrow world Like a colossus. Shak.

Note: There is no authority for the statement that the legs of the
Colossus at Rhodes extended over the mouth of the harbor. Dr. Wm.
Smith.

2. Any man or beast of gigantic size.

COLOSTRUM
Co*los"trum, n. Etym: [L., biestings.] (Med.)
(a) The first milk secreted after delivery; biestings.
(b) A mixture of turpentine and the yolk of an egg, formerly used as
an emulsion.

COLOTOMY
Co*lot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An operation for opening the colon

COLOUR
Col"our, n.

Defn: See Color.

COLP
Colp, n.

Defn: See Collop.

COLPORTAGE
Col"por`tage, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The distribution of religious books, tracts, etc., by
colporteurs.

COLPORTER
Col"por`ter, n.

Defn: Same as Colporteur.

COLPORTEUR
Col"por`teur, n. Etym: [F. colporteur one who carries on his neck,
fr. colporter to carry on one's neck; col (L. collum) neck + porter
(L. portare) to carry.]

Defn: A hawker; specifically, one who travels about selling and
distributing religious tracts and books.

COLSTAFF
Col"staff`, n. Etym: [F. col neck + E. staff. Cf. Coll.]

Defn: A staff by means of which a burden is borne by two persons on
their shoulders.

COLT
Colt (; 110), n. Etym: [OE. colt a young horse, ass, or camel, AS.
colt; cf. dial. Sw. kullt a boy, lad.]

1. The young of the equine genus or horse kind of animals; --
sometimes distinctively applied to the male, filly being the female.
Cf. Foal.

Note: In sporting circles it is usual to reckon the age of colts from
some arbitrary date, as from January 1, or May 1, next preceding the
birth of the animal.

2. A young, foolish fellow. Shak.

3. A short knotted rope formerly used as an instrument of punishment
in the navy. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Colt's tooth, an imperfect or
superfluous tooth in young horses.
 -- To cast one's colt's tooth, to cease from youthful wantonness.
"Your colt's tooth is not cast yet." Shak.
 -- To have a colt's tooth, to be wanton. Chaucer.

COLT
Colt (; 110), v. i.

Defn: To frisk or frolic like a colt; to act licentiously or
wantonly. [Obs.]
They shook off their bridles and began to colt. Spenser.

COLT
Colt, v. t.

1. To horse; to get with young. Shak.

2. To befool. [Obs.] Shak.

COLTER
Col"ter, n. Etym: [AS. culter, fr. L. culter plowshare, knife. Cf.
Cutlass.]

Defn: A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut the
sward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard. [Written also
coulter.]

COLTISH
Colt"ish, a.

Defn: Like a colt; wanton; frisky.
He was all coltish, full of ragery. Chaucer.
-- Colt"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Colt"ish*ness, n.

COLT PISTOL
Colt pistol. (Firearms)

Defn: A self-loading or semi-automatic pistol with removable magazine
in the handle holding seven cartridges. The recoil extracts and
ejects the empty cartridge case, and reloads ready for another shot.
Called also Browning, and Colt-Browning, pistol.

COLT REVOLVER
Colt revolver. (Firearms)

Defn: A revolver made according to a system using a patented
revolving cylinder, holding six cartridges, patented by Samuel Colt,
an American inventor, in 1835. With various modifications, it has for
many years been the standard for the United States army.

COLTSFOOT
Colts"foot`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial herb (Tussilago Farfara), whose leaves and
rootstock are sometimes employed in medicine. Butterbur coltsfoot
(Bot.), a European plant (Petasites vulgaris).

COLT'S TOOTH
Colt's" tooth`.

Defn: See under Colt.

COLUBER
Col"u*ber, n. Etym: [L., a serpent.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of harmless serpents.

Note: Linnæus placed in this genus all serpents, whether venomous or
not, whose scales beneath the tail are arranged in pairs; but by
modern writers it is greatly restricted.

COLUBRINE
Col"u*brine, a. Etym: [L. colubrinus.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: like or related to snakes of the genus Coluber.

2. Like a snake; cunning; crafty. Johnson.

COLUGO
Co*lu"go, n. Etym: [Prob. an aboriginal name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans), having
along the sides, connecting the fore and hind limbs, a parachutelike
membrane, by means of which it is able to make long leaps, like the
flying squirrel; -- called also flying lemur.

COLUMBA
Co*lum"ba, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Calumba.

COLUMBAE
Co*lum"bæ, n. pl.; Etym: [L. columba pigeon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of birds, including the pigeons.

COLUMBARIUM
Col`um*ba"ri*um, n.; pl. L. Columbaria Etym: [L. See Columbary.]
(Rom. Antiq.)
(a) A dovecote or pigeon house.
(b) A sepulchral chamber with niches for holding cinerary urns.

COLUMBARY
Col"um*ba*ry, n.; pl. Columbaries. Etym: [L. columbarium, fr. columba
a dove.]

Defn: A dovecote; a pigeon house. Sir T. Browne.

COLUMBATE
Co*lum"bate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. colombate. See Columbium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of columbic acid; a niobate. See Columbium.

COLUMBATZ FLY
Co*lum"batz fly`. Etym: [From Kolumbatz, a mountain in Germany.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: See Buffalo fly, under Buffalo.

COLUMBELLA
Col`um*bel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. columba a dove. So called
from a fancied resemblance in color and form, of some species.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of univale shells, abundant in tropical seas. Some
species, as Columbella mercatoria, were formerly used as shell money.

COLUMBIA
Co*lum"bi*a, n.

Defn: America; the United States; -- a poetical appellation given in
honor of Columbus, the discoverer. Dr. T. Dwight.

COLUMBIAD
Co*lum"bi*ad, n. Etym: [From Columbia the United States.] (Mil.)

Defn: A form of seacoast cannon; a long, chambered gun designed for
throwing shot or shells with heavy charges of powder, at high angles
of elevation.

Note: Since the War of 1812 the Columbiad has been much modified form
now used in seacoast defense is often called the Rodman gun.

COLUMBIAN
Co*lum"bi*an, a. Etym: [From Columbia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the United States, or to America.

COLUMBIC
Co*lum"bic, a. Etym: [From Columbium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, columbium or niobium; niobic.
Columbic acid (Chem.), a weak acid derived from columbic or niobic
oxide, Nb2O5; -- called also niobic acid.

COLUMBIC
Co*lum"bic, a. Etym: [From Columbo.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the columbo root. Columbic acid
(Chem.), an organic acid extracted from the columbo root as a bitter,
yellow, amorphous substance.

COLUMBIER
Co*lum"bi*er, n.

Defn: See Colombier.

COLUMBIFEROUS
Col"um*bif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Columbium + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing or containing columbium.

COLUMBIN
Co*lum"bin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, bitter substance. See Calumbin.

COLUMBINE
Col"um*bine, a. Etym: [L. columbinus, fr. columba dove.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a dove; dovelike; dove-colored. "Columbine
innocency." Bacon.

COLUMBINE
Col"um*bine, n. Etym: [LL. columbina, L. columbinus dovelike, fr.
columba dove: cf. F. colombine. Perh. so called from the beaklike
spurs of its flowers.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of several species of the genus Aquilegia; as, A.
vulgaris, or the common garden columbine; A. Canadensis, the wild red
columbine of North America.

2. The mistress or sweetheart of Harlequin in pantomimes. Brewer.

COLUMBITE
Co*lum"bite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. colombite. See Columbium.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a black color, submetallic luster, and high
specific specific gravity. It is a niobate (or columbate) of iron and
manganese, containing tantalate of iron; -- first found in New
England.

COLUMBIUM
Co*lum"bi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Columbia America.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare element of the vanadium group, first found in a variety
of the mineral columbite occurring in Connecticut, probably at
Haddam. Atomic weight 94.2. Symbol Cb or Nb. Now more commonly called
niobium.

COLUMBO
Co*lum"bo, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Calumba.

COLUMBUS DAY
Co*lum"bus Day.

Defn: The 12th day of October, on which day in 1492 Christopher
Columbus discovered America, landing on one of the Bahama Islands
(probably the one now commonly called Watling Island), and naming it
"San Salvador"; -- called also Discovery Day. This day is made a
legal holiday in many States of The United States.

COLUMELLA
Col`u*mel"la, n. Etym: [L., dim. of columen column. See Column.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) An axis to which a carpel of a compound pistil may be attached,
as in the case of the geranium; or which is left when a pod opens.
(b) A columnlike axis in the capsule of mosses.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A term applied to various columnlike parts; as, the columnella,
or epipterygoid bone, in the skull of many lizards; the columella of
the ear, the bony or cartilaginous rod connecting the tympanic
membrane with the internal ear.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) The upright pillar in the axis of most univalve shells.
(b) The central pillar or axis of the calicles of certain corals.

COLUMELLIFORM
Col`u*mel"li*form, a. Etym: [Columella + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a little column, or columella.

COLUMN
Col"umn, n. Etym: [L. columna, fr. columen, culmen, fr. cellere (used
only in comp.), akin to E. excel, and prob. to holm. See Holm, and
cf. Colonel.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for a
roof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usually
composed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order.

2. Anything resembling, in form or position, a column an
architecture; an upright body or mass; a shaft or obelisk; as, a
column of air, of water, of mercury, etc. ; the Column Vendôme; the
spinal column.

3. (Mil.)
(a) A body of troops formed in ranks, one behind the other; --
contradistinguished from line. Compare Ploy, and Deploy.
(b) A small army.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A number of ships so arranged as to follow one another in
single or double file or in squadrons; -- in distinction from "line",
where they are side by side.

5. (Print.)

Defn: A perpendicular set of lines, not extending across the page,
and separated from other matter by a rule or blank space; as, a
column in a newspaper.

6. (Arith.)

Defn: A perpendicular line of figures.

7. (Bot.)

Defn: The body formed by the union of the stamens in the Mallow
family, or of the stamens and pistil in the orchids. Attached column.
See under Attach, v. t.
 -- Clustered column. See under Cluster, v. t.
 -- Column rule, a thin strip of brass separating columns of type in
the form, and making a line between them in printing.

COLUMNAR
Co*lum"*nar, a. Etym: [L. columnaris, fr. columna.]

Defn: Formed in columns; having the form of a column or columns; like
the shaft of a column. Columnar epithelium (Anat.), epithelium in
which the cells are priismatic in form, and set upright on the
surface they cover.
 -- Columnar structure (Geol.), a structure consisting of more or
less regular columns, usually six-sided, but sometimes with eight or
more sides. The columns are often fractured transversely, with a cup
joint, showing a concave surface above. This structure is
characteristic of certain igneous rocks, as basalt, and is due to
contraction in cooling.

COLUMNARITY
Col`um*nar"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being columnar.

COLUMNATED
Co*lum"na*ted, a.

Defn: Having columns; as, columnated temples.

COLUMNED
Col"umned, a.

Defn: Having columns.
Troas and Ilion's columned citadel. Tennyson.

COLUMNIATION
Co*lum`ni*a"tion, n.

Defn: The employment or arrangement of columns in a structure. Gwilt.

COLURE
Co*lure", n.; pl. Colures. Etym: [F. colure, L. coluri, pl., fr. Gr.
(Astron. & Geog.)

Defn: One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in the
poles of the equator. One of them passes through the equinoctial
points, and hence is denominated the equinoctial colure; the other
intersects the equator at the distance of 90º from the former, and is
called the solstitial colure.
Thrice the equinoctial line He circled; four times crossed the car of
night From pole to pole, traversing each colure. Milton.

COLY
Co"ly, n.; pl. Colies. Etym: [NL. colius, prob. fr. Gr.

Defn: Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera. They inhabit
Africa.

COLZA
Col"za, n. Etym: [F., fr. D. koolzaad, prob., cabbage seed; kool
(akin to E. cole) + zaad akin to E. seed.] (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea), cultivated for its
seeds, which yield an oil valued for illuminating and lubricating
purposes; summer rape.

COM-
Com-.

Defn: A prefix from the Latin preposition cum, signifying with,
together, in conjunction, very, etc. It is used in the form com-
before b, m, p, and sometimes f, and by assimilation becomes col-
before l, cor- before r, and con- before any consonant except b, h,
l, m, p, r, and w. Before a vowel com- becomes co-; also before h, w,
and sometimes before other consonants.

COMA
Co"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cemetery.]

Defn: A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult or
impossible to rouse a person. See Carus.

COMA
Co"ma, n. Etym: [L., hair, fr. Gr.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: The envelope of a comet; a nebulous covering, which surrounds
the nucleus or body of a comet.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A tuft or bunch, -- as the assemblage of branches forming the
head of a tree; or a cluster of brachts when empty and terminating
the inflorescence of a plant; or a tuft of long hairs on certain
seeds. Coma Berenices ( Etym: [L.] (Astron.), a small constellation
north of Virgo; -- called also Berenice's Hair.

COMANCHES
Co*man"ches ( or ), n. pl.; sing. Comanche ( or ) . (Ethnol.)

Defn: A warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family of
Indians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the United
States; -- called also Paducahs. They are noted for plundering and
cruelty.

COMART
Co"mart`, n.

Defn: A covenant. [Obs.] Shak.

COMATE
Co"mate, a. Etym: [L. comatus, fr. comare to clothe with hair, fr.
coma hair.]

Defn: Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy.

CO-MATE
Co"-mate`, n. Etym: [Pref. co- + mate.]

Defn: A companion. Shak.

COMATOSE
Co"ma*tose` ( or ; 277), a. Etym: [From Coma lethargy.]

Defn: Relating to, or resembling, coma; drowsy; lethargic; as,
comatose sleep; comatose fever.

COMATOUS
Co"ma*tous, a.

Defn: Comatose.

COMATULA
Co*mat"u*la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. comatulus having hair neatly
curled, dim. fr. coma hair.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A crinoid of the genus Antedon and related genera. When young
they are fixed by a stem. When adult they become detached and cling
to seaweeds, etc., by their dorsal cirri; -- called also feather
stars.

COMATULID
Co*mat"u*lid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any crinoid of the genus Antedon or allied genera.

COMB
Comb (; 110), n. Etym: [AS.. camb; akin to Sw., Dan., & D. kam, Icel.
kambr, G. kamm, Gr. jambha tooth.]

1. An instrument with teeth, for straightening, cleansing, and
adjusting the hair, or for keeping it in place.

2. An instrument for currying hairy animals, or cleansing and
smoothing their coats; a currycomb.

3. (Manuf. & Mech.)
(a) A toothed instrument used for separating and cleansing wool,
flax, hair, etc.
(b) The serrated vibratory doffing knife of a carding machine.
(c) A former, commonly cone-shaped, used in hat manufacturing for
hardening the soft fiber into a bat.
(d) A tool with teeth, used for chasing screws on work in a lathe; a
chaser.
(e) The notched scale of a wire micrometer.
(f) The collector of an electrical machine, usually resembling a
comb.

4. (Zoöl.)
(a) The naked fleshy crest or caruncle on the upper part of the bill
or hood of a cock or other bird. It is usually red.
(b) One of a pair of peculiar organs on the base of the abdomen of
scorpions.

5. The curling crest of a wave.

6. The waxen framework forming the walls of the cells in which bees
store their honey, eggs, etc.; honeycomb. "A comb of honey." Wyclif.
When the bee doth leave her comb. Shak.

7. The thumbpiece of the hammer of a gunlock, by which it may be
cocked.

COMB
Comb, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Combed; p. pr. & vb. n. Combing.]

Defn: To disentangle, cleanse, or adjust, with a comb; to lay smooth
and straight with, or as with, a comb; as, to comb hair or wool. See
under Combing.
Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright. Shak.

COMB
Comb, v. i. Etym: [See Comb, n., 5.] (Naut.)

Defn: To roll over, as the top or crest of a wave; to break with a
white foam, as waves.

COMB; COMBE
Comb, Combe ( or ), n. Etym: [AS. comb, prob. of Celtic origin; cf.
W. cwm a dale, valley.]

Defn: That unwatered portion of a valley which forms its continuation
beyond and above the most elevated spring that issues into it.
[Written also coombe.] Buckland.
A gradual rise the shelving combe Displayed. Southey.

COMB
Comb, n.

Defn: A dry measure. See Coomb.

COMBAT
Com"bat ( or ; 277), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Combated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Combating.] Etym: [F. combattre; pref. com- + battre to beat, fr. L.
battuere to strike. See Batter.]

Defn: To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight.
To combat with a blind man I disdain. Milton.
After the fall of the republic, the Romans combated only for the
choice of masters. Gibbon.

COMBAT
Com"bat, v. t.

Defn: To fight with; to oppose by force, argument, etc.; to contend
against; to resist.
When he the ambitious Norway combated. Shak.
And combated in silence all these reasons. Milton.
Minds combat minds, repelling and repelled. Goldsmith.

Syn.
 -- To fight against; resist; oppose; withstand; oppugn; antagonize;
repel; resent.

COMBAT
Com"bat, n. Etym: [Cf. F. combat.]

1. A fight; a contest of violence; a struggle for supremacy.
My courage try by combat, if thou dar'st. Shak.
The noble combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was fought in Paulina.
Shak.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: An engagement of no great magnitude; or one in which the
parties engaged are not armies. Single combat, one in which a single
combatant meets a single opponent, as in the case of David and
Goliath; also a duel.

Syn.
 -- A battle; engagement; conflict; contest; contention; struggle;
fight, strife. See Battle, Contest.

COMBATABLE
Com"bat*a*ble ( or ), a. Etym: [Cf. F. combattable.]

Defn: Such as can be, or is liable to be, combated; as, combatable
foes, evils, or arguments.

COMBATANT
Com"bat*ant, a. Etym: [F. combattant, p. pr.]

Defn: Contending; disposed to contend. B. Jonson.

COMBATANT
Com"bat*ant, n. Etym: [F. combattant.]

Defn: One who engages in combat. "The mighty combatants." Milton.
A controversy which long survived the original combatants. Macaulay

COMBATER
Com"bat*er, n.

Defn: One who combats. Sherwood.

COMBATIVE
Com"bat*ive or

Defn: (

COMBATIVENESS
Com"bat*ive*ness, n.

1. The quality of being combative; propensity to contend or to
quarrel.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: A cranial development supposed to indicate a combative
disposition.

COMBATTANT
Com`bat`tant", a. Etym: [F.] (Her.)

Defn: In the position of fighting; -- said of two lions set face to
face, each rampant.

COMBBROACH
Comb"broach`, n.

Defn: A tooth of a wool comb. [Written also combrouch.]

COMBE
Combe ( or ), n.

Defn: See Comb.

COMBER
Comb"er, n.

1. One who combs; one whose occupation it is to comb wool, flax, etc.
Also, a machine for combing wool, flax, etc.

2. A long, curling wave.

COMBER
Com"ber, v. t.

Defn: To cumber. [Obs.] Spenser.

COMBER
Com"ber, n.

Defn: Encumbrance. [Obs.]

COMBER
Com"ber, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The cabrilla. Also, a name applied to a species of wrasse.
[Prov. Eng.]

COMBINABLE
Com*bin"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. combinable.]

Defn: Capable of combinding; consistent with. [R.] M. Arnold.
 -- Com*bin"a*ble*ness, n.

COMBINATE
Com"bi*nate, a. Etym: [LL. combinatus, p. p.]

Defn: United; joined; betrothed. [R.]

COMBINATION
Com`bi*na"tion, n. Etym: [LL. combinatio. See Combine.]

1. The act or process of combining or uniting persons and things.
Making new compounds by new combinations. Boyle.
A solemn combination shall be made Of our dear souls. Shak.

2. The result of combining or uniting; union of persons or things;
esp. a union or alliance of persons or states to effect some purpose;
-- usually in a bad sense.
A combination of the most powerful men in Rome who had conspired my
ruin. Melmoth.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of uniting by chemical affinity, by which
substances unite with each other in definite proportions by weight to
form distinct compounds.

4. pl. (Math.)

Defn: The different arrangements of a number of objects, as letters,
into groups.

Note: In combinations no regard is paid to the order in which the
objects are arranged in each group, while in variations and
permutations this order is respected. Brande & C. Combination car, a
railroad car containing two or more compartments used for different
purposes. [U. S.] -- Combination lock, a lock in which the mechanism
is controlled by means of a movable dial (sometimes by several dials
or rings) inscribed with letters or other characters. The bolt of the
lock can not be operated until after the dial has been so turned as
to combine the characters in a certain order or succession.
 -- Combination room, in the University of Cambridge, Eng., a room
into which the fellows withdraw after dinner, for wine, dessert, and
conversation.
 -- Combination by volume (Chem.), the act, process, or ratio by
which gaseous elements and compounds unite in definite proportions by
volume to form distinct compounds.
 -- Combination by weight (Chem.), the act, process, or ratio, in
which substances unite in proportions by weight, relatively fixed and
exact, to form distinct compounds. See Law of definite proportions,
under Definite.

Syn.
 -- Cabal; alliance; association; league; union; confederacy;
coalition; conspiracy. See Cabal.

COMBINE
Com*bine", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Combined; p. pr. & vb. n. Combining.]
Etym: [LL. combinare, combinatum; L. com- + binus, pl. bini, two and
two, double: cf. F. combiner. See Binary.]

1. To unite or join; to link closely together; to bring into
harmonious union; to cause or unite so as to form a homogeneous, as
by chemical union.
So fitly them in pairs thou hast combined. Milton.
Friendship is the which really combines mankind. Dr. H. More.
And all combined, save what thou must combine By holy marriage. Shak.
Earthly sounds, though sweet and well combined. Cowper.

2. To bind; to hold by a moral tie. [Obs.]
I am combined by a sacred vow. Shak.

COMBINE
Com*bine", v. i.

1. To form a union; to agree; to coalesce; to confederate.
You with your foes combine, And seem your own destruction to design
Dryden.
So sweet did harp and voice combine. Sir W. Scott.

2. To unite by affinity or natural attraction; as, two substances,
which will not combine of themselves, may be made to combine by the
intervention of a third.

3. (Card Playing)

Defn: In the game of casino, to play a card which will take two or
more cards whose aggregate number of pips equals those of the card
played. Combining weight (Chem.), that proportional weight, usually
referred to hydrogen as a standard, and for each element fixed and
exact, by which an element unites with another to form a distinct
compound. The combining weights either are identical with, or are
multiples or multiples of, the atomic weight. See Atomic weight,
under Atomic, a.

COMBINED
Com*bined", a.

Defn: United closely; confederated; chemically united.

COMBINEDLY
Com*bin"ed*ly, adv. In combination or coöperation

Defn: ; jointly.

COMBINER
Com*bin"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, combines.

COMBING
Comb"ing, n.

1. The act or process of using a comb or a number of combs; as, the
combing of one's hair; the combing of wool.

Note: The process of combing is used in straightening wool of long
staple; short wool is carded.

2. pl.
(a) That which is caught or collected with a comb, as loose, tangled
hair.
(b) Hair arranged to be worn on the head.
The baldness, thinness, and . . . deformity of their hair is supplied
by borders and combings. Jer. Taylor.
(c) (Naut.)

Defn: See Coamings. Combing machine (Textile Manuf.), a machine for
combing wool, flax, cotton, etc., and separating the longer and more
valuable fiber from the shorter. See also Carding machine, under
Carding.

COMBLESS
Comb"less, a.

Defn: Without a comb or crest; as, a combless ceck.

COMBOLOIO
Com`bo*lo"io, n.

Defn: A Mohammedan rosary, consisting of ninety-nine beads. Byron.

COMB-SHAPED
Comb"-shaped`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pectinate.

COMBUST
Com*bust", a. Etym: [L. combustus, p. p. of comburere to burn up;
com- + burere (only in comp.), of uncertian origin; cf. bustum
fineral pyre, prurire to itch, pruna a live coal, Gr. plush to burn.]

1. Burnt; consumed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: So near the sun as to be obscured or eclipsed by his light, as
the moon or planets when not more than eight degrees and a half from
the sun. [Obs.]
Planets that are oft combust. Milton.

COMBUSTIBILITY
Com*bus`ti*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being combustible.

COMBUSTIBLE
Com*bus"ti*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. combustble.]

1. Capable of taking fire and burning; apt to catch fire;
inflammable.
Sin is to the soul like fire to combustible matter. South.

2. Ea
Arnold was a combustible character. W. Irving.

COMBUSTIBLE
Com*bus"ti*ble, n.

Defn: A substance that may bee set on fire, or which is liable to
take fire and burn.
All such combustibles as are cheap enough for common use go under the
name of fuel. Ure.

COMBUSTIBLENESS
Com*bus"ti*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Combustibility.

COMBUSTION
Com*bus"tion, n. Etym: [L. combustio: cf. F. combustion.]

1. The state of burning.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The combination of a combustible with a supporter of
combustion, producing heat, and sometimes both light and heat.
Combustion results is common cases from the mutual chemical action
and reaction of the combustible and the oxygen of the atmosphere,
whereby a new compound is formed. Ure.
Supporter of combustion (Chem.), a gas as oxygen, the combination of
which with a combustible, as coal, constitutes combustion.

3. Violent agitation; confusion; tumult. [Obs.]
There [were] great combustions and divisions among the heads of the
university. Mede.
But say from whence this new combustion springs. Dryden.

COMBUSTION CHAMBER
Com*bus"tion cham`ber. (Mech.)
 (a) A space over, or in front of , a boiler furnace where the gases
from the fire become more thoroughly mixed and burnt. (b) The
clearance space in the cylinder of an internal combustion engine
where the charge is compressed and ignited.

COMBUSTIOUS
Com*bus"tious, a.

Defn: Inflammable. [Obs.] Shak.

COME
Come, v. i. [imp. Came; p. p. Come; p. pr & vb. n. Coming.] Etym:
[OE. cumen, comen, AS. cuman; akin to OS.kuman, D. komen, OHG.
queman, G. kommen, Icel. koma, Sw. komma, Dan. komme, Goth. giman, L.
venire (gvenire), Gr. gam. *23. Cf. Base, n., Convene, Adventure.]

1. To move hitherward; to draw near; to approach the speaker, or some
place or person indicated; -- opposed to go.
Look, who comes yonder Shak.
I did not come to curse thee. Tennyson.

2. To complete a movement toward a place; to arrive.
When we came to Rome. Acts xxviii. 16.
Lately come from Italy. Acts vviii. 2.

3. To approach or arrive, as if by a journey or form a distance. "Thy
kingdom come." Matt. vi. 10.
The hour is comming, and now is. John. v. 25.
So quik bright things come to confusion. Shak.

4. To approach or arrive, as the result of a cause, or of the act of
another.
From whence come wars James iv. 1.
Both riches and honor come of thee! Chron. xxix. 12.

5. To arrive in sight; to be manifest; to appear.
Then butter does refuse to come. Hudibras.

6. To get to be, as the result of change or progress; -- with a
predicate; as, to come united.
How come you thus estranged Shak.
How come her eyes so bright Shak.

Note: Am come, is come, etc., are frequently used instead of have
come, has come, etc., esp. in poetry. The verb to be gives adjectival
significance to the participle as expressing a state or condition of
the subject, while the auxiliary have expresses simply the completion
of the action signified by the verb.
Think not that I am come to destroy. Matt. v. 17.
We are come off like Romans. Shak.
The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year. Bryant.

Note: Come may properly be used (instead of go) in speaking of a
movement hence, or away, when there is reference to an approach to
the person addressed; as, I shall come home next week; he will come
to your house to-day. It is used with other verbs almost as an
auxiliary, indicative of approach to the action or state expressed by
the verb; as, how came you to do it Come is used colloquially, with
reference to a definite future time approaching, without an
auxilliary; as, it will be two years, come next Christmas; i. e.,
when Christmas shall come.
They were cried In meeting, come next Sunday. Lowell.
Come, in the imperative, is used to excite attention, or to invite to
motion or joint action; come, let us go. "This is the heir; come, let
us kill him." Matt. xxi. 38. When repeated, it sometimes expresses
haste, or impatience, and sometimes rebuke. "Come, come, no time for
lamentation now." Milton. To come, yet to arrive, future. "In times
to come." Dryden. "There's pippins and cheese to come." Shak.
 -- To come about. (a) To come to pass; to arrive; to happen; to
result; as, how did these things come about (b) To change; to come
round; as, the ship comes about. "The wind is come about." Shak.
On better thoughts, and my urged reasons, They are come about, and
won to the true side. B. Jonson.
-- To come abroad. (a) To move or be away from one's home or country.
"Am come abroad to see the world." Shak. (b) To become public or
known. [Obs.] "Neither was anything kept secret, but that it should
come abroad." Mark. iv. 22.
 -- To come across, to meet; to find, esp. by chance or suddenly. "We
come across more than one incidental mention of those wars." E. A.
Freeman. "Wagner's was certainly one of the strongest and most
independent natures I ever came across." H. R. Heweis.
 -- To come after. (a) To follow. (b) To come to take or to obtain;
as, to come after a book.
 -- To come again, to return. "His spirit came again and he revived."
Judges. xv. 19.
 -- To come and go. (a) To appear and disappear; to change; to
alternate. "The color of the king doth come and go." Shak. (b)
(Mech.) To play backward and forward.
 -- To come at. (a) To reach; to arrive within reach of; to gain; as,
to come at a true knowledge of ourselves. (b) To come toward; to
attack; as, he came at me with fury.
 -- To come away, to part or depart.
 -- To come between, to interverne; to separate; hence, to cause
estrangement.
 -- To come by. (a) To obtain, gain, acquire. "Examine how you came
by all your state." Dryden. (b) To pass near or by way of.
 -- To come down. (a) To descend. (b) To be humbled.
 -- To come down upon, to call to account, to reprimand. [Colloq.]
Dickens.
 -- To come home. (a) To retuen to one's house or family. (b) To come
close; to press closely; to touch the feelings, interest, or reason.
(b) (Naut.) To be loosened from the ground; -- said of an anchor.
 -- To come in. (a) To enter, as a town, house, etc. "The thief
cometh in." Hos. vii. 1. (b) To arrive; as, when my ship comes in.
(c) To assume official station or duties; as, when Lincoln came in.
(d) To comply; to yield; to surrender. "We need not fear his coming
in" Massinger. (e) To be brought into use. "Silken garments did not
come in till late." Arbuthnot. (f) To be added or inserted; to be or
become a part of. (g) To accrue as gain from any business or
investment. (h) To mature and yield a harvest; as, the crops come in
well. (i) To have sexual intercourse; -- with to or unto. Gen.
xxxviii. 16. (j) To have young; to bring forth; as, the cow will come
in next May. [U. S.] -- To come in for, to claim or receive. "The
rest came in for subsidies." Swift.
 -- To come into, to join with; to take part in; to agree to; to
comply with; as, to come into a party or scheme.
 -- To come it ever, to hoodwink; to get the advantage of. [Colloq.]
-- To come near or nigh, to approach in place or quality to be equal
to. "Nothing ancient or modern seems to come near it." Sir W. Temple.
 -- To come of. (a) To descend or spring from. "Of Priam's royal race
my mother came." Dryden. (b) To result or follow from. "This comes of
judging by the eye." L'Estrange.
 -- To come off. (a) To depart or pass off from. (b) To get free; to
get away; to escape. (c) To be carried through; to pass off; as, it
came off well. (d) To acquit one's self; to issue from (a contest,
etc.); as, he came off with honor; hence, substantively, a come off,
an escape; an excuse; an evasion. [Colloq.] (e) To pay over; to give.
[Obs.] (f) To take place; to happen; as, when does the race come off
(g) To be or become after some delay; as, the weather came off very
fine. (h) To slip off or be taken off, as a garment; to separate. (i)
To hurry away; to get through. Chaucer.
 -- To come off by, to suffer. [Obs.] "To come off by the worst."
Calamy.
 -- To come off from, to leave. "To come off from these grave
disquisitions." Felton.
 -- To come on. (a) To advance; to make progress; to thrive. (b) To
move forward; to approach; to supervene.
 -- To come out. (a) To pass out or depart, as from a country, room,
company, etc. "They shall come out with great substance." Gen. xv.
14. (b) To become public; to appear; to be published. "It is indeed
come out at last." Bp. Stillingfleet. (c) To end; to result; to turn
out; as, how will this affair come out he has come out well at last.
(d) To be introduced into society; as, she came out two seasons ago.
(e) To appear; to show itself; as, the sun came out. (f) To take
sides; to take a stand; as, he came out against the tariff.(g) To
publicly admit oneself to be homosexual.
 -- To come out with, to give publicity to; to disclose.
 -- To come over. (a) To pass from one side or place to another.
"Perpetually teasing their friends to come over to them." Addison.
(b) To rise and pass over, in distillation.
 -- To come over to, to join.
 -- To come round. (a) To recur in regular course. (b) To recover.
[Colloq.] (c) To change, as the wind. (d) To relent. J. H. Newman.
(e) To circumvent; to wheedle. [Colloq.] -- To come short, to be
deficient; to fail of attaining. "All have sinned and come short of
the glory of God." Rom. iii. 23.
 -- To come to. (a) To consent or yield. Swift. (b) (Naut.) (with the
accent on to) To luff; to brin the ship's head nearer the wind; to
anchor. (c) (with the accent on to) To recover, as from a swoon. (d)
To arrive at; to reach. (e) To amount to; as, the taxes come to a
large sum. (f) To fall to; to be received by, as an inheritance.
Shak.
 -- To come to blows. See under Blow.
 -- To come to grief. See under Grief.
 -- To come to a head. (a) To suppurate, as a boil. (b) To mature; to
culminate; as a plot.
 -- To come to one's self, to recover one's senses.
 -- To come to pass, to happen; to fall out.
 -- To come to the scratch. (a) (Prize Fighting) To step up to the
scratch or mark made in the ring to be toed by the combatants in
beginning a contest; hence: (b) To meet an antagonist or a difficulty
bravely. [Colloq.] -- To come to time. (a) (Prize Fighting) To come
forward in order to resume the contest when the interval allowed for
rest is over and "time" is called; hence: (b) To keep an appointment;
to meet expectations. [Colloq.] -- To come together. (a) To meet for
business, worship, etc.; to assemble. Acts i. 6. (b) To live together
as man and wife. Matt. i. 18.
 -- To come true, to happen as predicated or expected.
 -- To come under, to belong to, as an individual to a class.
 -- To come up (a) to ascend; to rise. (b) To be brought up; to
arise, as a question. (c) To spring; to shoot or rise above the
earth, as a plant. (d) To come into use, as a fashion.
 -- To come up the capstan (Naut.), to turn it the contrary way, so
as to slacken the rope about it.
 -- To come up the tackle fall (Naut.), to slacken the tackle gently.
Totten.
 -- To come up to, to rise to; to equal.
 -- To come up with, to overtake or reach by pursuit.
 -- To come upon. (a) To befall. (b) To attack or invade. (c) To have
a claim upon; to become dependent upon for support; as, to come upon
the town. (d) To light or chance upon; to find; as, to come upon hid
treasure.

COME
Come, v. t.

Defn: To carry through; to succeed in; as, you can't come any tricks
here. [Slang] To come it, to succeed in a trick of any sort. [Slang]

COME
Come, n.

Defn: Coming. Chaucer.

COME-ALONG
Come"-a*long`, n.

Defn: A gripping device, as for stretching wire, etc., consisting of
two jaws so attached to a ring that they are closed by pulling on the
ring.

CO-MEDDLE
Co-med"dle, v. t.

Defn: To mix; to mingle, to temper. [Obs.] Shak.

COMEDIAN
Co*me"di*an, n. Etym: [Cf. F. comédien.]

1. An actor or player in comedy. "The famous comedian, Roscius."
Middleton.

2. A writer of comedy. Milton.

COMEDIENNE
Co*mé`di*enne", n. Etym: [F., fem. of com.]

Defn: A women who plays in comedy.

COMEDIETTA
Co*me`di*et"ta, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A dramatic sketch; a brief comedy.

COMEDO
Com"e*do, n.; pl. Comedones. Etym: [L., a glutton. See Comestible.]
(Med.)

Defn: A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., which
on pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retained
oily secretion, with a black head (dirt).

COMEDOWN
Come"down`, n.

Defn: A downfall; an humillation. [Colloq.]

COMEDY
Com"e*dy, n.; pl. Comedies. Etym: [F. comédie, L. comoedia, fr. Gr.
home) + Home, and Ode.]

Defn: A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright and
amusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the manners
of society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life; a play in
which mirth predominates and the termination of the plot is happy; --
opposed to tragedy.
With all the vivacity if comedy. Macaulay.
Are come to play a pleasant comedy. Shak.

COMELILY
Come"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a suitable or becoming manner. [R.] Sherwood.

COMELINESS
Come"li*ness, n. Etym: [See Comely.]

Defn: The quality or state of being comely.
Comeliness is a disposing fair Of things and actions in fit time and
place. Sir J. Davies.
Strength, comeliness of shape, or amplest merit. Milton.
Comeliness signifies something less forcible than beauty, less
elegant than grace, and less light than prettiness. Johnson.

COMELY
Come"ly, a. [Compar. Comelier; superl. Comeliest.] Etym: [OE.
comeliche, AS. cymlic; cyme suitable (fr. cuman to come, become) +
lic like.]

1. Pleasing or agreeable to the sight; well-proportioned; good-
looking; handsome.
He that is comely when old and decrepit, surely was very beautiful
when he was young. South.
Not once perceive their foul disfigurement But boast themselves more
comely than before. Milton.

2. Suitable or becoming; proper; agreeable.
This is a happier and more comely time Than when these fellows ran
about the streets, Crying confusion. Shak.
It is good to sing praises unto our God; for it is pleasant; and
praise is comely. Ps. cxlvii. 1.

COMELY
Come"ly, adv.

Defn: In a becoming manner. Ascham.

COME-OUTER
Come-out"er, n.

Defn: One who comes out or withdraws from a religious or other
organization; a radical reformer. [Colloq. U. S.]

COMER
Com"er, n.

Defn: One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and is
present. All comers, all who come, or offer, to take part in a
matter, especially in a contest or controversy. "To prove it against
all comers." Bp. Stillingfleet.

COMES
Co"mes, n. Etym: [L., a companion.] (Mus.)

Defn: The answer to the theme (dux) in a fugue.

COMESSATION
Com`es*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. comissatio, comessatio.]

Defn: A reveling; a rioting. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

COMESTIBLE
Co*mes"ti*ble, a. Etym: [F. comestible, fr. L. comesus, comestus, p.
p. pf comedere to eat; com- + edere to eat.]

Defn: Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent.
Some herbs are most comestible. Sir T. Elyot.

COMESTIBLE
Co*mes"ti*ble, n.

Defn: Something suitable to be eaten; -- commonly in the plural.
Thackeray.

COMET
Com"et, n. Etym: [L. cometes, cometa, from Gr. coma: cf. F. comète.]
(Astron.)

Defn: A member of the solar system which usually moves in an
elongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion,
and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion. A
comet commonly consists of three parts: the nucleus, the envelope, or
coma, and the tail; but one or more of these parts is frequently
wanting. See Illustration in Appendix.

COMETARIUM
Com`e*ta"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL.] (Astron.)

Defn: An instrument, intended to represent the revolution of a comet
round the sun. Hutton.

COMETARY
Com"et*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cométaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a comet. Cheyne.

COMET-FINDER; COMET-SEEKER
Com"et-find`er, or Com"et-seek`er, n. (Astron.)

Defn: A telescope of low power, having a large field of view, used
for finding comets.

COMETHER
Co*meth"er, n. [Prob. dial. pron. of come hither, used in calling
cows, etc.] [Dial. or Colloq., Brit.]

1.

Defn: Matter; affair.

2.  Friendly communication or association.

To put the, or one's, comether on, to exercise persuasion upon; to
get under one's influence; to beguile; to wheedle.

How does ut come about, sorr, that whin a man has put the comether on
wan woman he's sure bound to put ut on another
Kipling.

COMETIC
Co*met"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to a comet.

COMETOGRAPHER
Com`et*og"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who describes or writes about comets.

COMETOGRAPHY
Com`et*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Comet + -graphy: cf. F. cométographie.]

Defn: A description of, or a treatise concerning, comets.

COMETOLOGY
Com`et*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Comet + -logy.]

Defn: The department of astronomy relating to comets.

COMFIT
Com"fit, n. Etym: [F. confit, prop. a p. p., fr. confire to preserve,
pickle, fr. L. conficere to prepare; con- + facere to make. See Fact,
and cf. Confect.]

Defn: A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preserved
with sugar and dried; a confection.

COMFIT
Com"fit, v. t.

Defn: To preserve dry with sugar.
The fruit which does so quickly waste, . . . Thou comfitest in sweets
to make it last. Cowley.

COMFITURE
Com"fi*ture, n. Etym: [F. confiture; cf. LL. confecturae sweetmeats,
confectura a preparing. See Comfit, and cf. Confiture.]

Defn: See Comfit, n.

COMFORT
Com"fort, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Comforted; p. pr. & vb. n. Comforting.]
Etym: [F. conforter, fr. L. confortare to strengthen much; con- +
fortis strong. See Fort.]

1. To make strong; to invigorate; to fortify; to corroborate. [Obs.]
Wyclif.
God's own testimony . . . doth not a little comfort and confirm the
same. Hooker.

2. To assist or help; to aid. [Obs.]
I . . . can not help the noble chevalier: God comfort him in this
necessity! Shak.

3. To impart strength and hope to; to encourage; to relieve; to
console; to cheer,
Light excelleth in comforting the spirits of men. Bacon.
That we may be adle to comfort them that are in any affliction. 2
Cor. i. 4. (Rev. Ver. ).
A perfect woman, nobly planned, To warn, to comfort, and command.
Wordsworth.

Syn.
 -- To cheer; solace; console; revive; encourage; enliven;
invigorate; inspirit, gladden; recreate; exhilarate; refresh;
animate; confirm; strengthen.
 -- To Comfort, Console, Solace. These verbs all suppose some
antecedent state of suffering or sorrow. Console in confined to the
act giving sympathetic relief to the mind under affliction or sorrow,
and points to some definite source of that relief; as, the presence
of his friend consoled him; he was much consoled by this
intelligence. The act of consoling commonly implies the inculcation
of resignation. Comfort points to relief afforded by the
communication of positive pleasure, hope, and strength, as well as by
the diminution of pain; as, "They brought the young man alive, and
were not a little comforted." Acts xx. 12.

Note: Solace is from L. solacium, which means according to Dumesnil,
consolation inwardly felt or applied to the case of the sufferer.
Hence, the verb to solace denotes the using of things for the purpose
of affording relief under sorrow or suffering; as, to solace one's
self with reflections, with books, or with active employments.

COMFORT
Com"fort, n. Etym: [OF. confort, fr. conforter.]

1. Assistance; relief; support. [Obs. except in the phrase "aid and
comfort." See 5 below.] Shak.

2. Encouragement; solace; consolation in trouble; also, that which
affords consolation.
In comfort of her mother's fears. Shak.
Cheer thy spirit with this comfort. Shak.
Speaking words of endearment where words of comfort availed not.
Longfellow.

3. A state of quiet enjoyment; freedom from pain, want, or anxiety;
also, whatever contributes to such a condition.
I had much joy and comfort in thy love. Phil. 7 (Rev. Ver. ).
He had the means of living in comfort. Macaulay.

4. A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable. [U. S.]

5. (Law)

Defn: Unlawful support, countenance, or encouragement; as, to give
aid and comfort to the enemy.

Syn.
 -- Comfort, Consolation. Comfort has two meanings:

1. Strength and relief received under affliction;

2. Positive enjoyment, of a quiet, permanent nature, together with
the sources thereof; as, the comfort of love; surrounded with
comforts; but it is with the former only that the word consolation is
brought into comparison. As thus compared, consolation points to some
specific source of relief for the afflicted mind; as, the
consolations of religion. Comfort supposes the relief to be afforded
by imparting positive enjoyment, as well as a diminution of pain.
"Consolation, or comfort, signifies some alleviation to that pain to
which it is not in our power to afford the proper and adequate
remedy; they imply rather an augmentation of the power of bearing,
than a diminution of the burden." Johnson.

COMFORTABLE
Com"fort*a*ble, a. Etym: [OF. confortable.]

1. Strong; vigorous; valiant. [Obs.] Wyclif.
Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers. For my sake be
comfortable; hold death a while at the arm's end. Shak.

2. Serviceable; helpful. [Obs.]
Be comfortable to my mother, your mistress, and make much of her.
Shak.

3. Affording or imparting comfort or consolation; able to comfort;
cheering; as, a comfortable hope. "Kind words and comfortable."
Cowper.
A comfortable provision made for their subsistence. Dryden.

4. In a condition of comfort; having comforts; not suffering or
anxious; hence, contented; cheerful; as, to lead a comfortable life.
My lord leans wondrously to discontent; His comfortable temper has
forsook him: He is much out of health. Shak.

5. Free, or comparatively free, from pain or distress; -- used of a
sick person. [U. S.]

COMFORTABLE
Com"fort*a*ble, n.

Defn: A stuffed or quilted coverlet for a bed; a comforter; a
comfort. [U. S.]

COMFORTABLENESS
Com"fort*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: State of being comfortable or comforting manner.
Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem. Is. xl. 2.

COMFORTABLY
Com"fort*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a comfortable or comforting manner.

Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem.
Is. xl. 2.

COMFORTER
Com"fort*er, n.

1. One who administers comfort or consolation.
Let no comforter delight mine ear But such a one whose wrongs do suit
with mine. Shak.

2. (Script.)

Defn: The Holy Spirit, -- reffering to his office of comforting
believers.
But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send
in my name, he shall teach you all things. John xiv. 26.

3. A knit woolen tippet, long and narrow. [U. S.]
The American schoolboy takes off his comforter and unbuttons his
jacket before going in for a snowball fight. Pop. Sci. Monthly.

4. A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable. [U. S.] Job's comforter, a boil.
[Colloq.]

COMFORTLESS
Com"fort*less, a.

Defn: Without comfort or comforts; in want or distress; cheerless.
Comfortless through turanny or might. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Forlorn; desolate; cheerless; inconsolable; disconsolate;
wretched; miserable.
 -- Com"fort*less*ly, adv.
 -- Com"fort*less*ness, n.
When all is coldly, comfortlessly costly. Milton.

COMFORTMENT
Com"fort*ment, n.

Defn: Act or process of administering comfort. [Obs.]
The gentle comfortment and entertainment of the said embassador.
Hakluyt.

COMFORTRESS
Com"fort*ress, n.

Defn: A woman who comforts.
To be your comfortress, and to preserve you. B. Jonson.

COMFREY
Com"frey, n. Etym: [Prob. from F. conferve, L. conferva, fr.
confervere to boil together, in medical language, to heal, grow
together. So called on account of its healing power, for which reason
it was also called consolida.] (Bot.)

Defn: A rough, hairy, perennial plant of several species, of the
genus Symphytum.

Note: A decoction of the mucilaginous root of the "common comfrey"
(S. officinale) is used in cough mixtures, etc.; and the gigantic
"prickly comfrey" (S. asperrimum) is somewhat cultivated as a forage
plant.

COMIC
Com"ic, a. Etym: [L. comicus pertaining to comedy, Gr. comique. See
Comedy.]

1. Relating to comedy, as distinct from tragedy.
I can not for the stage a drama lay, Tragic or comic, but thou
writ'st the play. B. Jonson.

2. Causing mirth; ludicrous. "Comic shows." Shak.

COMIC
Com"ic, n.

Defn: A comedian. [Obs.] Steele.

COMICAL
Com"ic*al, a.

1. Relating to comedy.
They deny it to be tragical because its catastrphe is a wedding,
which hath ever been accounted comical. Gay.

2. Exciting mirth; droll; laughable; as, a comical story. "Comical
adventures." Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Humorous; laughable; funny. See Droll.
 -- Com"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Com"ic*al"ness, n.

COMICALITY
Com`i*cal"i*ty, n.; pl. Comicalities.

Defn: The quality of being comical; something comical.

COMICRY
Com"ic*ry, n.

Defn: The power of exciting mirth; comicalness. [R.] H. Giles.

COMING
Com"ing, a.

1. Approaching; of the future, especially the near future; the next;
as, the coming week or year; the coming exhibition.
Welcome the coming, speed the parting, guest. Pope.
Your coming days and years. Byron.

2. Ready to come; complaisant; fond. [Obs.] Pope.

COMING
Com"ing, n.

1. Approach; advent; manifestation; as, the coming of the train.

2. Specifically: The Second Advent of Christ. Coming in.
(a) Entrance; entrance way; manner of entering; beginning. "The
goings out thereof, and the comings in thereof." Ezek. xliii. 11
(b) Income or revenue. "What are thy comings in" Shak.

COMITIA
Co*mi"ti*a, n., pl. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A public assembly of the Roman people for electing officers or
passing laws.

Note: There were three kinds of comitia: comitia curiata, or assembly
of the patricians, who voted in curiæ; comitia centuriata, or
assembly of the whole Roman people, who voted by centuries; and
comitia tributa, or assembly of the plebeians according to their
division into tribes.

COMITIAL
Co*mi"tial, a. Etym: [L. comitialis.]

Defn: Relating to the comitia, or popular assembles of the Romans for
electing officers and passing laws. Middleton.

COMITIVA
Co`mi*ti"va, n. [It.]

Defn: A body of followers; -- applied to the lawless or brigand bands
in Italy and Sicily.

COMITY
Com"i*ty, n.; pl. Comities. Etym: [L. comitas, fr. comis courteous,
kind.]

Defn: Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals;
friendly equals; friendly civility; as, comity of manners; the comity
of States. Comity of nations (International Law), the courtesy by
which nations recognize within their own territory, or in their
courts, the peculiar institutions of another nation or the rights and
privileges acquired by its citizens in their own land. By some
authorities private international law rests on this comity, but the
better opinion is that it is part of the common law of the land, and
hence is obligatory as law.

Syn.
 -- Civility; good breeding; courtesy; good will.

COMMA
Com"ma, n. Etym: [L. comma part of a sentence, comma, Gr. Capon.]

1. A character or point [,] marking the smallest divisions of a
sentence, written or printed.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A small interval (the difference beyween a major and minor half
step), seldom used except by tuners. Comma bacillus (Physiol.), a
variety of bacillus shaped like a comma, found in the intestines of
patients suffering from cholera. It is considered by some as having a
special relation to the disease; -- called also cholera bacillus.
 -- Comma butterfly (Zoöl.), an American butterfly (Grapta comma),
having a white comma-shaped marking on the under side of the wings.

COMMAND
Com*mand" (; 61), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commanded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commanding.] Etym: [OE. comaunden, commanden, OF. comander, F.
commander, fr. L. com- + mandare to commit to, to command. Cf.
Commend, Mandate.]

1. To order with authority; to lay injunction upon; to direct; to
bid; to charge.
We are commanded to forgive our enemies, but you never read that we
are commanded to forgive our friends. Bacon.
Go to your mistress: Say, I command her come to me. Shak.

2. To exercise direct authority over; to have control of; to have at
one's disposal; to lead.
Monmouth commanded the English auxiliaries. Macaulay.
Such aid as I can spare you shall command. Shak.

3. To have within a sphere of control, influence, access, or vision;
to dominate by position; to guard; to overlook.
Bridges commanded by a fortified house. Motley.
Up to the eastern tower, Whose height commands as subject all the
vale. Shak.
One side commands a view of the finest garden. Addison.

4. To have power or influence of the nature of authority over; to
obtain as if by ordering; to reeceive as a due; to challenge; to
claim; as, justice commands the respect and affections of the people;
the best goods command the best price.
'Tis not in mortals to command success. Addison.

5. To direct to come; to bestow. [Obs.]
I will command my blessing upon you. Lev. xxv. 21.

Syn.
 -- To bid; order; direct; dictate; charge; govern; rule; overlook.

COMMAND
Com*mand", v. i.

1. To have or to exercise direct authority; to govern; to sway; to
influence; to give an order or orders.
And reigned, commanding in his monarchy. Shak.
For the king had so commanded concerning [Haman]. Esth. iii. 2.

2. To have a view, as from a superior position.
Far and wide his eye commands. Milton.

COMMAND
Com*mand", n.

1. An authoritative order requiring obedience; a mandate; an
injunction.
A waiting what command their mighty chief Had to impose. Milton.

2. The possession or exercise of authority.
Command and force may often create, but can never cure, an aversion.
Locke.

3. Authority; power or right of control; leadership; as, the forces
under his command.

4. Power to dominate, command, or overlook by means of position;
scope of vision; survey.
Te steepy stand Which overlooks the vale with wide command. Dryden.

5. Control; power over something; sway; influence; as, to have
command over one's temper or voice; the fort has command of the
bridge.
He assumed an absolute command over his readers. Druden.

6. A body of troops, or any naval or military force or post, or the
whole territory under the authority or control of a particular
officer.

Word of command (Mil.), a word or phrase of definite and established
meaning, used in directing the movements of soldiers; as, aim; fire;
shoulder arms, etc.

Syn.
 -- Control; sway; power; authority; rule; dominion; sovereignty;
mandate; order; injunction; charge; behest. See Direction.

COMMANDABLE
Com*mand"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being commanded.

COMMANDANT
Com`man*dant", n. Etym: [F., orig. p. pr. of commander.]

Defn: A commander; the commanding officer of a place, or of a body of
men; as, the commandant of a navy-yard.

COMMANDATORY
Com*mand"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Mandatory; as, commandatory authority. [Obs.]

COMMANDEER
Com`man*deer", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Commandeered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commandeering.] [D. kommandeeren to command, in South Africa to
commandeer, fr. F. commander to command. See Command.]

1.  (Mil.)

Defn: To compel to perform military service; to seize for military
purposes; -- orig. used of the Boers.

2.  To take arbitrary or forcible possession of. [Colloq.]

COMMANDER
Com*mand"er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. commandeur. Cf. Commodore, Commender.]

1. A chief; one who has supreme authority; a leader; the chief
officer of an army, or of any division of it.
A leader and commander to the people. Is. lv. 4.

2. (Navy)

Defn: An officer who ranks next below a captain, -- ranking with a
lieutenant colonel in the army.

3. The chief officer of a commandery.

4. A heavy beetle or wooden mallet, used in paving, in sail lofts,
etc. Commander in chief, the military title of the officer who has
supreme command of the land or naval forces or the united forces of a
nation or state; a generalissimo. The President is commander in chief
of the army and navy of the United States.

Syn.
 -- See Chief.

COMMANDERSHIP
Com*mand"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a commander.

COMMANDERY
Com*mand"er*y, n.; pl. Commanderies. Etym: [F. commanderie.]

1. The office or rank of a commander. [Obs.]

2. A district or a manor with lands and tenements appertaining
thereto, under the control of a member of an order of knights who was
called a commander; -- called also a preceptory.

3. An assembly or lodge of Knights Templars (so called) among the
Freemasons. [U. S.]

4. A district under the administration of a military commander or
governor. [R.] Brougham.

COMMANDING
Com*mand"ing, a.

1. Exercising authority; actually in command; as, a commanding
officer.

2. Fitted to impress or control; as, a commanding look or presence.

3. Exalted; overlooking; having superior strategic advantages; as, a
commanding position.

Syn.
 -- Authoritative; imperative; imperious.

COMMANDINGLY
Com*mand"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a commanding manner.

COMMANDMENT
Com*mand"ment, n. Etym: [OF. commandement, F. commandement.]

1. An order or injunction given by authority; a command; a charge; a
precept; a mandate.
A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another. John
xiii. 34.

2. (Script.)

Defn: One of the ten laws or precepts given by God to the Israelites
at Mount Sinai.

3. The act of commanding; exercise of authority.
And therefore put I on the countenance Of stern commandment. Shak.

4. (Law)

Defn: The offense of commanding or inducing another to violate the
law. The Commandments, The Ten Commandments, the Decalogue, or
summary of God's commands, given to Moses at Mount Sinai. (Ex. xx.)

COMMANDO
Com*man"do, n. [D. See Command, v. t.]

Defn: In South Africa, a military body or command; also, sometimes,
an expedition or raid; as, a commando of a hundred Boers.

The war bands, called commandos, have played a great part in the . .
. military history of the country.
James Bryce.

COMMANDRESS
Com*mand"ress, n.

Defn: A woman invested with authority to command. Hooker.

COMMANDRY
Com*mand"ry, n.

Defn: See Commandery.

COMMARK
Com"mark`, n. Etym: [Of. comarque, or LL. commarca, commarcha; com- +
marcha, boundary. See March a confine.]

Defn: The frontier of a country; confines. [Obs.] Shelton.

COMMATERIAL
Com`ma*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Consisting of the same material. [Obs.] Bacon.

COMMATIC
Com*mat"ic, a. Etym: [L. commaticus, Gr. Comma.]

Defn: Having short clauses or sentences; brief; concise.

COMMATISM
Com"ma*tism, n. Etym: [See Commatic.]

Defn: Conciseness in writing. Bp. Horsley.

COMMEASURABLE
Com*meas"ur*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. Commensurable.]

Defn: Having the same measure; commensurate; proportional.
She being now removed by death, a commeasurable grief took as full
possession of him as joy had one. I. Walton.

COMMEASURE
Com*meas"ure, v. t.

Defn: To be commensurate with; to equal. Tennyson.

COMMEMORABLE
Com*mem"o*ra"ble, a. Etym: [L. commemorabilis.]

Defn: Worthy to be commemorated.

COMMEMORATE
Com*mem"o*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commemorated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commemorating.] Etym: [L. commemoratus, p. p. of commemorare to
remember; com- + memorare to mention, fr. memor mindful. See Memory.]

Defn: To call to remembrance by a special act or observance; to
celebrate with honor and solemnity; to honor, as a person or event,
by some act of respect of affection, intended to preserve the
remembrance of the person or event; as, to commemorate the sufferings
and dying love of our Savior by the sacrament of the Lord's Supper;
to commemorate the Declaration of Independence by the observance of
the Fourth of July.
We are called upon to commemorate a revolution. Atterbury.

Syn.
 -- See Celebrate.

COMMEMORATION
Com*mem`o*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. commemoratio.]

1. The act of commemorating; an observance or celebration designed to
honor the memory of some person or event.
This sacrament was designed to be a standing commemoration of the
death and passion of our Lord. Abp. Tillotson.
The commonwealth which . . . chooses the most flagrant act of
murderous regicide treason for a feast of eternal commemoration.
Burke.

2. Whatever serves the purpose of commemorating; a memorial.
Commemoration day, at the University of Oxford, Eng., an annual
observance or ceremony in honor of the benefactors of the University,
at which time honorary degrees are conferred.

COMMEMORATIVE
Com*mem"o*ra*tive, a.

Defn: Tending or intended to commemorate. "A sacrifice commemorative
of Christ's offering up his body for us." Hammond.
An inscription commemorative of his victory. Sir G. C. Lewis.

COMMEMORATOR
Com*mem"o*ra`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who commemorates.

COMMEMORATORY
Com*mem"o*ra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving to commemorate; commomerative. Bp. Hooper.

COMMENCE
Com*mence", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Commenced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commencing.] Etym: [F. commencer, OF. commencier, fr. L. com- +
initiare to begin. See Initiate.]

1. To have a beginning or origin; to originate; to start; to begin.
Here the anthem doth commence. Shak.
His heaven commences ere the world be past. Goldsmith.

2. To begin to be, or to act as. [Archaic]
We commence judges ourselves. Coleridge.

3. To take a degree at a university. [Eng.]
I question whether the formality of commencing was used in that age.
Fuller.

COMMENCE
Com*mence", v. t.

Defn: To enter upon; to begin; to perform the first act of.
Many a wooer doth commence his suit. Shak.

Note: It is the practice of good writers to use the verbal noun
(instead of the infinitive with to) after commence; as, he commenced
studying, not he commenced to study.

COMMENCEMENT
Com*mence"ment, n. Etym: [F. comencement.]

1. The first existence of anything; act or fact of commencing; rise;
origin; beginnig; start.
The time of Henry VII . . . nearly coincides with the commencement of
what is termed "modern history."

2. The day when degrees are conferred by colleges and universities
upon students and others.

COMMEND
Com*mend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commending.] Etym: [L. commendare; com- + mandare to intrust to one's
charge, enjoin, command. Cf. Command, Mandate.]

1. To commit, intrust, or give in charge for care or preservation.
His eye commends the leading to his hand. Shak.
Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. Luke xxiii. 46.

2. To recommend as worthy of confidence or regard; to present as
worthy of notice or favorable attention.
Among the objects of knowlwdge, two especially commend themselves to
our contemplation. Sir M. Hale.
I commend unto you Phebe our sister. Rom. xvi. 1.

3. To mention with approbation; to praise; as, to commend a person or
an act.
Historians commend Alexander for weeping when he read the actions of
Achilles. Dryden.

4. To mention by way of courtesy, implying remembrance and good will.
[Archaic]
Commend me to my brother. Shak.

COMMEND
Com*mend", n.

1. Commendation; praise. [Obs.]
Speak in his just commend. Shak.

2. pl.

Defn: Compliments; greetings. [Obs.]
Hearty commends and much endeared love to you. Howell.

COMMENDABLE
Com*mend"a*ble, a.

Note: (Formerly accented on the first syllable.) Etym: [L.
commendabilis.]

Defn: Worthy of being commended or praised; laudable; praiseworthy.
Order and decent ceremonies in the church are not only comely but
commendable. Bacon.
-- Com*mend"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Com*mend"a*bly, adv.

COMMENDAM
Com*men"dam, n. Etym: [LL. dare in commendam to give into trust.]
(Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: A vacant living or benefice commended to a cleric (usually a
bishop) who enjoyed the revenue until a pastor was provided. A living
so held was said to be held in commendam. The practice was abolished
by law in 1836.
There was [formerly] some sense for commendams. Selden.
Partnership in commendam. See under Partnership.

COMMENDATARY
Com*mend"a*ta*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. commendataire, LL.
commendatarius.]

Defn: One who holds a living in commendam.

COMMENDATION
Com`men*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. commendatio.]

1. The act of commending; praise; favorable representation in words;
recommendation.
Need we . . . epistles of commendatiom 2 Cor. iii. 1.
By the commendation of the great officers. Bacon.

2. That which is the ground of approbation or praise.
Good nature is the most godlike commendation of a man. Dryden.

3. pl.

Defn: A message of affection or respect; compliments; greeting.
[Obs.]
Hark you, Margaret; No princely commendations to my king Shak.

COMMENDATOR
Com*mend"a*tor ( or ), n. Etym: [LL.]

Defn: One who holds a benefice in commendam; a commendatary.
Chalmers.

COMMENDATORY
Com*mend"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. commendatorius.]

1. Serving to commend; containing praise or commendation; commending;
praising. "Commendatory verses." Pope.

2. Holding a benefice in commendam; as, a commendatory bishop. Burke.
Commendatory prayer (Book of Common Prayer), a prayer read over the
dying. "The commendatory prayer was said for him, and, as it ended,
he [William III.] died." Bp. Burnet.

COMMENDATORY
Com*mend"a*to*ry, n.

Defn: A commendation; eulogy. [R.] "Commendatories to our affection."
Sharp.

COMMENDER
Com*mend"er, n.

Defn: One who commends or praises.

COMMENSAL
Com*men"sal, n. Etym: [LL. commensalis; L. com- + mensa table: cf. F.
commensal. Cf. Mensal.]

1. One who eats at the same table. [Obs.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal, not truly parasitic, which lives in with, or on,
another, partaking usually of the same food. Both species may be
benefited by the association.

COMMENSAL
Com*men"sal, a.

Defn: Having the character of a commensal.

COMMENSALISM
Com*men"sal*ism, n.

Defn: The act of eating together; table fellowship.

COMMENSALITY
Com`men*sal"i*ty, n.

Defn: Fellowship at table; the act or practice of eating at the same
table. [Obs.] "Promiscuous commensality." Sir T. Browne.

COMMENSATION
Com`men*sa"tion, n.

Defn: Commensality. [Obs.]
Daniel . . . declined pagan commensation. Sir T. Browne.

COMMENSURABILITY
Com*men`su*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. commensurabilite.]

Defn: The quality of being commersurable. Sir T. Browne.

COMMENSURABLE
Com*men"su*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. commensurabilis; pref. com- +
mensurable. See Commensurate, and cf. Commeasurable.]

Defn: Having a common measure; capable of being exactly measured by
the same number, quantity, or measure.
 -- Com*men"su*ra*ble*ness, n. Commensurable numbers or quantities
(Math.), those that can be exactly expressed by some common unit;
thus a foot and yard are commensurable, since both can be expressed
in terms of an inch, one being 12 inches, the other 36 inches.
 -- Numbers, or Quantities, commensurable in power, those whose
squares are commensurable.

COMMENSURABLY
Com*men"su*ra*bly, adv.

Defn: In a commensurable manner; so as to be commensurable.

COMMENSURATE
Com*men"su*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commensurated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commensurating.] Etym: [Pref. com- + mensurate.]

1. To reduce to a common measure. Sir T. Browne.

2. To proportionate; to adjust. T. Puller

COMMENSURATE
Com*men"su*rate, a.

1. Having a common measure; commensurable; reducible to a common
measure; as, commensurate quantities.

2. Equal in measure or extent; proportionate.
Those who are persuaded that they shall continue forever, can not
choose but aspire after a hapiness commensurate to their duration.
Tillotson.

COMMENSURATELY
Com*men"su*rate*ly, adv.

1. In a commensurate manner; so as to be equal or proportionate;
adequately.

2. With equal measure or extent. Goodwin.

COMMENSURATENESS
Com*men"su*rate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being commensurate. Foster.

COMMENSURATION
Com*men`su*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. commensuration.]

Defn: The act of commensurating; the state of being commensurate.
All fitness lies in a particular commensuration, or proportion of one
thing to another. South.

COMMENT
Com"ment, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Commented; p. pr. & vb. n. Commenting.]
Etym: [F. commenter, L. commentary to meditate upon, explain, v.
intens, of comminisci, commentus, to reflect upon, invent; com- + the
root of meminisse to remember, mens mind. See Mind.]

Defn: To make remarks, observations, or criticism; especially, to
write notes on the works of an author, with a view to illustrate his
meaning, or to explain particular passages; to write annotations; --
often followed by on or upon.
A physician to comment on your malady. Shak.
Critics . . . proceed to comment on him. Dryden.
I must translate and comment. Pope.

COMMENT
Com"ment, v. t.

Defn: To comment on. [Archaic.] Fuller.

COMMENT
Com"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. comment.]

1. A remark, observation, or criticism; gossip; discourse; talk.
Their lavish comment when her name was named. Tennyson.

2. A note or observation intended to explain, illustrate, or
criticise the meaning of a writing, book, etc.; explanation;
annotation; exposition.
All the volumes of philosophy, With all their comments. Prior.

COMMENTARY
Com"men*ta*ry, n.; pl. Commentaries. Etym: [L. commentarius,
commentarium, note book, commentary: cf. F. commentaire. See Comment,
v. i.]

1. A series of comments or annotations; esp., a book of explanations
or expositions on the whole or a part of the Scriptures or of some
other work.
This letter . . . was published by him with a severe commentary.
Hallam.

2. A brief account of transactions or events written hastily, as if
for a memorandum; -- usually in the plural; as, Caesar's Commentaries
on the Gallic War.

COMMENTATE
Com"men*tate, v. t. & i. Etym: [L. commentatus, p. p. of commentari
to meditate.]

Defn: To write comments or notes upon; to make comments. [R.]
Commentate upon it, and return it enriched. Lamb.

COMMENTATION
Com`men*ta"tion, n.

1. The act or process of commenting or criticising; exposition. [R.]
The spirit of commentation. Whewell.

2. The result of the labors of a commentator.

COMMENTATOR
Com"men*ta`tor, n. Etym: [L. commentator: cf. F. commentateur.]

Defn: One who writes a commentary or comments; an expositor; an
annotator.
The commentator's professed object is to explain, to enforce, to
illustrate doctrines claimed as true. Whewell.

COMMENTATORIAL
Com`men*ta*to"ri*al ( or , a.

Defn: Pertaining to the making of commentaries. Whewell.

COMMENTATORSHIP
Com"men*ta`tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office or occupation of a commentator.

COMMENTER
Com"ment`er, n.

Defn: One who makes or writes comments; a commentator; an annotator.

COMMENTITIOUS
Com`men*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. commentitius.]

Defn: Fictitious or imaginary; unreal; as, a commentitious system of
religion. [Obs.] Warburton.

COMMERCE
Com"merce, n.

Note: (Formerly accented on the second syllable.) Etym: [F. commerce,
L. commercium; com- + merx, mercis, merchadise. See Merchant.]

1. The exchange or buying and selling of commodities; esp. the
exchange of merchandise, on a large scale, between different places
or communities; extended trade or traffic.
The public becomes powerful in proportion to the opulence and
extensive commerce of private men. Hume.

2. Social intercourse; the dealings of one person or class in society
with another; familiarity.
Fifteen years of thought, observation, and commerce with the world
had made him [Bunyan] wiser. Macaulay.

3. Sexual intercourse. W. Montagu.

4. A round game at cards, in which the cards are subject to exchange,
barter, or trade. Hoyle. Chamber of commerce. See Chamber.

Syn.
 -- Trade; traffic; dealings; intercourse; interchange; communion;
communication.

COMMERCE
Com*merce" ( or , v. i. [imp. & p. p. Commerced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commercing.] Etym: [Cf. F. commercer, fr. LL. commerciare.]

1. To carry on trade; to traffic. [Obs.]
Beware you commerce not with bankrupts. B. Jonson.

2. To hold intercourse; to commune. Milton.
Commercing with himself. Tennyson.
Musicians . . . taught the people in angelic harmonies to commerce
with heaven. Prof. Wilson.

COMMERCE DESTROYER
Com"merce de*stroy"er. (Nav.)

Defn: A very fast, unarmored, lightly armed vessel designed to
capture or destroy merchant vessels of an enemy. Not being intended
to fight, they may be improvised from fast passenger steamers.

COMMERCIAL
Com*mer"cial, a. Etym: [Cf. F. commercial.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to commerce; carrying on or occupied with
commerce or trade; mercantile; as, commercial advantages; commercial
relations. "Princely commercial houses." Macaulay. Commercial
college, a school for giving instruction in commercial knowledge and
business.
 -- Commercial law. See under Law.
 -- Commercial note paper, a small size of writing paper, usually
about 5 by 7½ or 8 inches.
 -- Commercial paper, negotiable paper given in due course of
business. It includes bills of exchange, promissory notes, bank
cheks, etc.
 -- Commercial traveler, an agent of a wholesale house who travels
from town to town to solicit orders.

Syn.
 -- See Mercantile.

COMMERCIALISM
Com*mer"cial*ism, n.

Defn: The commercial spirit or method. C. Kingsley.

COMMERCIALLY
Com*mer"cial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a commercial manner.

COMMIGRATE
Com"mi*grate, v. i. Etym: [L. commigrare, commigratum.]

Defn: To migrate together. [R.]

COMMIGRATION
Com`mi*gra"tion, n. Etym: [L. commigratio.]

Defn: Migration together. [R.] Woodward.

COMMINATION
Com`mi*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. comminatio, from comminary to threaten;
com- + minari to threaten: cf. F. commination.]

1. A threat or threatening; a denunciation of punishment or
vengeance.
With terrible comminations to all them that did resist. I. Taylor.

2. An office in the liturgy of the Church of England, used on Ash
Wednesday, containing a recital of God's anger and judgments against
sinners.

COMMINATORY
Com*min"a*to"ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. comminatoire.]

Defn: Threatening or denouncing punishment; as, comminatory terms. B.
Jonson.

COMMINGLE
Com*min"gle, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Commingled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commingling.]

Defn: To mingle together; to mix in one mass, or intimately; to
blend. Bacon.

COMMINGLER
Com*min"gler, n.

Defn: One that commingles; specif., a device for noiseless heating of
water by steam, in a vessel filled with a porous mass, as of pebbles.

COMMINUTE
Com"mi*nute, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Comminuted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Comminuting.] Etym: [L. comminutus, p. p. of comminuere to comminute;
com- + minuere to lessen. See Minute.]

Defn: To reduce to minute particles, or to a fine powder; to
pulverize; to triturate; to grind; as, to comminute chalk or bones;
to comminute food with the teeth. Pennant. Comminuted fracture. See
under Fracture.

COMMINUTION
Com`mi*nu"tion, n.

1. The act of reducing to a fine powder or to small particles;
pulverization; the state of being comminuted. Bentley.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: Fracture (of a bone) into a number of pieces. Dunglison.

3. Gradual diminution by the removal of small particles at a time; a
lessening; a wearing away.
Natural and necessary comminution of our lives. Johnson.

COMMISERABLE
Com*mis"er*a*ble, a.

Defn: Pitiable. [Obs.] Bacon.

COMMISERATE
Com*mis"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commiserated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commiserating.] Etym: [L. commiseratus, p. p. of commiserari to
commiserate; com- + miserari to pity. See Miserable.]

Defn: To feel sorrow, pain, or regret for; to pity.
Then must we those, who groan, beneath the weight Of age, disease, or
want, commiserate. Denham.
We should commiserate our mutual ignorance. Locke.

Syn.
 -- To pity; compassionate; lament; condole.

COMMISERATION
Com*mis`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [F. commis, fr. L. commiseratio a part of
an oration intended to exite compassion.]

Defn: The act of commiserating; sorrow for the wants, afflictions, or
distresses of another; pity; compassion.
And pluck commiseration of his state From brassy bosoms and rough
hearts of flint. Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Sympathy.

COMMISERATIVE
Com*mis"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Feeling or expressing commiseration. Todd.

COMMISERATOR
Com*mis"er*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who pities.

COMMISSARIAL
Com`mis*sa"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a commissary.

COMMISSARIAT
Com`mis*sa"ri*at, n. Etym: [F. commissariat.] (Mil.)
(a) The organized system by which armies and military posts are
supplied with food and daily necessaries.
(b) The body of officers charged with such service.

COMMISSARY
Com"mis*sa*ry, n.; pl. Commissaries. Etym: [LL. commissarius, fr. L.
commissus, p. p. of committere to commit, intrust to. See Commit.]

1. One to whom is committed some charge, duty, or office, by a
superior power; a commissioner.
Great Destiny, the Commissary of God. Donne.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: An officer on the bishop, who exercises ecclesiastical
jurisdiction in parts of the diocese at a distance from the residence
of the bishop. Ayliffe.

3. (Mil.)
(a) An officer having charge of a special sevice; as, the commissary
of musters.
(b) An officer whose business is to provide food for a body of troops
or a military post; -- officially called commissary of subsistence.
[U. S.]
Washington wrote to the President of Congress . . . urging the
appointment of a commissary general, a quartermaster general, a
commissary of musters, and a commissary of artillery. W. Irving
Commissary general, an officer in charge of some special department
of army service; as: (a) The officer in charge of the commissariat
and transport department, or of the ordinace store department. [Eng.]
(b) The commissary general of subsistence. [U. S.] -- Commissary
general of subsistence (Mil. U. S.), the head of the subsistence
department, who has charge of the purchase and issue of provisions
for the army.

COMMISSARYSHIP
Com"mis*sa*ry*ship, n.

Defn: The office or employment of a commissary. Ayliffe.

COMMISSION
Com*mis"sion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. commissio. See Commit.]

1. The act of committing, doing, or performing; the act of
perpetrating.
Every commission of sin introduces into the soul a certain degree of
hardness. South.

2. The act of intrusting; a charge; instructions as to how a trust
shall be executed.

3. The duty or employment intrusted to any person or persons; a
trust; a charge.

4. A formal written warrant or authority, granting certain powers or
privileges and authorizing or commanding the performance of certain
duties.
Let him see our commission. Shak.

5. A certificate conferring military or naval rank and authority; as,
a colonel's commission.

6. A company of persons joined in the performance of some duty or the
execution of some trust; as, the interstate commerce commission.
A commission was at once appointed to examine into the matter.
Prescott.

7. (Com.)
(a) The acting under authority of, or on account of, another.
(b) The thing to be done as agent for another; as, I have three
commissions for the city.
(c) The brokerage or allowance made to a factor or agent for
transacting business for another; as, a commission of ten per cent on
sales. See Del credere. Commission of array. (Eng. Hist.) See under
Array.
 -- Commission of bankrupty, a commission apointing and empowering
certain persons to examine into the facts relative to an alleged
bankrupty, and to secure the bankrupt's lands and effects for the
creditors.
 -- Commission of lunacy, a commission authoring and inquiry whether
a person is a lunatic or not.
 -- Commission merchant, one who buys or sells goods on commission,
as the agent of others, receiving a rate per cent as his
compensation.
 -- Commission, or Commissioned, officer (Mil.), one who has a
commission, in distingtion from a noncommossioned or warrant officer.
 -- Commission of the peace, a commission under the great seal,
constituting one or more persons justices of the peace. [Eng.] -- To
put a vessel into commission (Naut.), to equip and man a goverment
vessel, and send it out on service after it has been laid up; esp.,
the formal act of tacking command of a vessel for service, hoisting
the flag, reading the orders, etc.
 -- To put a vessel out of commission (Naut.), to detach the officers
and crew and retire it from active service, temporarily or
permanently.
 -- To put the great seal, or the Treasury, into commission, to place
it in the hands of a commissioner or commissioners during the
abeyance of the ordinary administration, as between the going out of
one lord keeper and accession of another. [Eng.] -- The United States
Christians Commission, an organization among the people of the North,
during the Civil War, which afforded material comforts to the Union
soldiers, and performed services of a religious character in the
field and in hospitals.
 -- The United States Sanitary Commission, an organization formed by
the people of the North to coöperate with and supplement the medical
department of the Union armies during the Civil War.

Syn.
 -- Charge; warrant; authority; mandate; office; trust; employment.

COMMISSION
Com*mis"sion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commissioned; p. pr & vb. n.
Commissioning.]

1. To give a commission to; to furnish with a commission; to empower
or authorize; as, to commission persons to perform certain acts; to
commission an officer.

2. To send out with a charge or commission.
A chosen band He first commissions to the Latian land. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To appoint; depute; authorize; empower; delegate; constitute;
ordain.

COMMISSIONAIRE
Com*mis`sion*aire", n. [F. commissionnaire. Cf. Commissioner.]

1. One intrusted with a commission, now only a small commission, as
an errand; esp., an attendant or subordinate employee in a public
office, hotel, or the like. The commissionaire familiar to European
travelers performs miscellaneous services as a light porter,
messenger, solicitor for hotels, etc.

2.  One of a corps of pensioned soldiers, as in London, employed as
doorkeepers, messengers, etc.

COMMISSIONAL; COMMISSIONARY
Com*mis"sion*al, Com*mis"sion*a*ry a.

Defn: Of pertaining to, or conferring, a commission; conferred by a
commission or warrant. [R.]
Delegate or commissionary authority. Bp. Hall.

COMMISSIONATE
Com*mis"sion*ate, v. t.

Defn: To commission [Obs.]

COMMISSIONER
Com*mis"sion*er, n.

1. A person who has a commission or warrant to perform some office,
or execute some bussiness, for the goverment, corporation, or person
employing him; as, a commissioner to take affidavits or to adjust
claims.
To another adress which requisted that a commission might be sent to
examine into the state of things in Ireland, William returned a
gracious answer, and desired the Commons to name the commissioners.
Macaulay.

2. An officer having charge of some department or bureau of the
public service.
Herbert was first commissioner of the Admiralty. Macaulay.
The commissioner of patents, the commissioner of the land office, the
commissioner of Indian affairs, are subotdinates of the secretary of
the interior. Bartlett.
Commissioner of deeds, an officer having authority to take
affidavits, depositions, acknowledgment of deeds, etc., for use in
the State by which he is appointed. [U. S.] -- County commissioners,
certain administrative officers in some of the States, invested by
local laws with various powers in reference to the roads,
courthouses, financial matters, etc., of the county. [U. S.]

COMMISSIONNAIRE
Com*mis`sion*naire" (; F. ), n. Etym: [F., fr. L. commissio.]

1. An agent or factor; a commission merchant.

2. One of a class of attendants, in some European cities, who perform
miscellaneous services for travelers.

COMMISSIONSHIP
Com*mis"sion*ship, n.

Defn: The office of commissioner. Sir W. Scott.

COMMISSIVE
Com*mis"sive, a.

Defn: Relating to commission; of the nature of, or involving,
commission. [R.]

COMMISSURAL
Com*mis"su*ral ( or ), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a commissure.

COMMISSURE
Com*mis"sure ( or ; 134-6), n. Etym: [L. commissura a joing together:
cf. F. commissure. See Commit.]

1. A joint, seam, or closure; the place where two bodies, or parts of
a body, meet and unite; an interstice, cleft, or juncture.

2. (Anat. & Zoöl.)
(a) The point of union between two parts, as the angles of the lips
or eyelids, the mandibles of a bird, etc.
(b) A collection of fibers connecting parts of the brain or spinal
marrow; a chiasma.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The line of junction or cohering face of two carpels, as in the
parsnip, caraway, etc.

COMMIT
Com*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Commited; p. pr. & vb. n. Commiting.]
Etym: [L. committere, commissum, to connect, commit; com- + mittere
to send. See Mission.]

1. To give in trust; to put into charge or keeping; to intrust; to
consign; -- used with to, unto.
Commit thy way unto the Lord. Ps. xxxvii. 5.
Bid him farewell, commit him to the grave. Shak.

2. To put in charge of a jailor; to imprison.
These two were commited. Clarendon.

3. To do; to perperate, as a crime, sin, or fault.
Thou shalt not commit adultery. Ex. xx. 14.

4. To join a contest; to match; -- followed by with. [R.] Dr. H.
More.

5. To pledge or bind; to compromise, expose, or endanger by some
decisive act or preliminary step; -- often used reflexively; as, to
commit one's self to a certain course.
You might have satisfied every duty of political friendship, without
commiting the honor of your sovereign. Junius.
Any sudden assent to the proposal . . . might possibly be considered
as committing the faith of the United States. Marshall.

6. To confound. [An obsolete Latinism.]
Committing short and long [quantities]. Milton.
To commit a bill (Legislation), to refer or intrust it to a committee
or others, to be considered and reported.
 -- To commit to memory, or To commit, to learn by heart; to
memorize.

Syn.
 -- To Commit, Intrust, Consign. These words have in common the idea
of transferring from one's self to the care and custody of another.
Commit is the widest term, and may express only the general idea of
delivering into the charge of another; as, to commit a lawsuit to the
care of an attorney; or it may have the special sense of intrusting
with or without limitations, as to a superior power, or to a careful
servant, or of consigning, as to writing or paper, to the flames, or
to prison. To intrust denotes the act of committing to the exercise
of confidence or trust; as, to intrust a friend with the care of a
child, or with a secret. To consign is a more formal act, and regards
the thing transferred as placed chiefly or wholly out of one's
immediate control; as, to consign a pupil to the charge of his
instructor; to consign goods to an agent for sale; to consign a work
to the press.

COMMIT
Com"mit, v. i.

Defn: To sin; esp., to be incontinent. [Obs.]
Commit not with man's sworn spouse. Shak.

COMMITMENT
Com*mit"ment, n.

1. The act of commiting, or putting in charge, keeping, or trust;
consigment; esp., the act of commiting to prison.
They were glad to compound for his bare commitment to the Tower,
whence he was within few days enlarged. Clarendon.

2. A warrant or order for the imprisonment of a person; -- more
frequently termed a mittimus.

3. The act of referring or intrusting to a committee for
consideration and report; as, the commitment of a petition or a bill.

4. A doing, or preperation, in a bad sense, as of a crime or blunder;
commission.

5. The act of pledging or engaging; the act of exposing, endangering,
or compromising; also, the state of being pledged or engaged.
Hamilton.

COMMITTABLE
Com*mit"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being committed.

COMMITTAL
Com*mit"tal, n.

Defn: The act of commiting, or the state of being committed;
commitment.

COMMITTEE
Com*mit"tee, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. comité company, and LL. comitatus
jurisdiction or territory of a count, county, assize, army. The word
was apparently influenced by the verb commit, but not directly formed
from it. Cf. County.]

Defn: One or more persons elected or appointed, to whom any matter or
bussiness is referred, either by a legislative body, or by a court,
or by any collective body of men acting together. Commitee of the
whole [house], a committee, embracing all the members present, into
which a legislative or deliberative body sometimes resolves itself,
for the purpose of considering a particular measure under the
operation of different rules from those governing the general
legislative proceedings. The committee of the whole has its own
chairman, and reports its action in the form of recommendations.
 -- Standing committee. See under Standing.

COMMITTEE
Com`mit*tee", n. Etym: [From Commit, v. t.] (Law)

Defn: One to whom the charge of the person or estate of another, as
of a lunatic, is committed by suitable authority; a guardian.

COMMITTEEMAN
Com*mit"tee*man, n.

Defn: A member of a committee.

COMMITTER
Com*mit"ter, n.

1. One who commits; one who does or perpetrates. South.

2. A fornicator. [Obs.] T. Decker.

COMMITTIBLE
Com*mit"ti*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being committed; liable to be committed. [R.] Sir T.
Browne.

COMMIX
Com*mix", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Commixed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Commixing.] Etym: [Pref. com+ + mix: cf. L. commixtus, p. p.of
commiscere. See Mix.]

Defn: To mix or mingle together; to blend.
The commixed impressions of all the colors do stir up and beget a
sensation of white. Sir I. Newton.
To commix With winds that sailors rail at. Shak.

COMMIXION
Com*mix"ion, n. Etym: [See Commix.]

Defn: Commixture. Shak.

COMMIXTION
Com*mix"tion, n. Etym: [L. commixtio.]

Defn: Commixture; mingling. [R.]
An exact commixtion of the ingredients. Boyle.

COMMIXTURE
Com*mix"ture, n. Etym: [L. commixtura.]

1. The act or process of mixing; the state of being mingled; the
blending of ingredients in one mass or compound.
In the commixture of anything that is more oily or sweet, such bodies
are least apt to putrefy. Bacon.

2. The mass formed by mingling different things; a compound; a
mixture. Bacon.

COMMODATE
Com"mo*date, n. Etym: [L. commodatum thing lent, loan.] (Scots Law)

Defn: A gratuitous loan.

COMMODE
Com*mode", n. Etym: [F. commode, fr. commode convenient, L. commodus;
com- + modus measure, mode. See Mode.]

1. A kind of headdress formerly worn by ladies, raising the hair and
fore part of the cap to a great height.
Or under high commodes, with looks erect. Granville.

2. A piece of furniture, so named according to temporary fashion; as:
(a) A cheat of drawers or a bureau. (b) A night stand with a
compartment for holding a chamber vessel. (c) A kind of close stool.
(d) A movable sink for a wash bowl, with closet.

COMMODIOUS
Com*mo"di*ous, a. Etym: [LL. commodiosus, fr. L. commodum
convenience, fr. commodus. See Commode.]

Defn: Adapted to its use or purpose, or to wants and necessities;
serviceable; spacious and convenient; roomy and comfortable; as, a
commodious house. "A commodious drab." Shak. "Commodious gold." Pope.
The haven was not commodious to winter in. Acts. xxvii. 12.

Syn.
 -- Convenient; suitable; fit; proper; advantageous; serviceable;
useful; spacious; comfortable.

COMMODIOUSLY
Com*mo"di*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a commodious manner.
To pass commodiously this life. Milton.

COMMODIOUSNESS
Com*mo"di*ous*ness, n.

Defn: State of being commodious; suitableness for its purpose;
convience; roominess.
Of cities, the greatness and riches increase according to the
commodiousness of their situation. Sir W. Temple.
The commodiousness of the harbor. Johnson.

COMMODITY
Com*mod"i*ty, n.; pl. Commodities. Etym: [F. commodit, fr. L.
commoditas. See Commode.]

1. Convenience; accommodation; profit; benefit; advantage; interest;
commodiousness. [Obs.]
Drawn by the commodity of a footpath. B. Jonson.
Men may seek their own commodity, yet if this were done with injury
to others, it was not to be suffered. Hooker.

2. That which affords convenience, advantage, or profit, especially
in commerce, including everything movable that is bought and sold
(except animals), -- goods, wares, merchandise, produce of land and
manufactures, etc.

3. A parcel or quantity of goods. [Obs.]
A commodity of brown paper and old ginger. Shak.

COMMODORE
Com"mo*dore`, n. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of commander, or Sp.
comendador a knight of a military order who holds a commandery; also
a superior of a monastery;, fr. LL. commendare to command. Cf.
Commend, Command, Commander.]

1. (U. S. Navy)

Defn: An officer who ranks next above a captain; sometimes, by
courtesy, the senior captain of a squadron. The rank of commodore
corresponds with that of brigadier general in the army.

2. (Brititsh Navy)

Defn: A captain commanding a squadron, or a division of a fleet, or
having the temporary rank of rear admiral.

3. A title given courtesy to the senior captain of a line of merchant
vessels, and also to the chief officer of a yachting or rowing club.

4. A familiar for the flagchip, or for the principal vessel of a
squadron or fleet.

COMMON
Com"mon, a. [Compar. Commoner; superl. Commonest.] Etym: [OE. commun,
comon, OF. comun, F. commun, fr. L. communis; com- + munis ready to
be of service; cf. Skr. mi to make fast, set up, build, Coth. gamains
common, G. gemein, and E. mean low, common. Cf. Immunity, Commune, n.
& v.]

1. Belonging or relating equally, or similary, to more than one; as,
you and I have a common interest in the property.
Though life and sense be common to men and brutes. Sir M. Hale.

2. Belonging to or shared by, affecting or serving, all the members
of a class, consired together; general; public; as, propertis common
to all plants; the common schools; the Book of Common Prayer.
Such actions as the common good requereth. Hocker.
The common enemy of man. Shak.

3. Often met with; usual; frequent; customary.
Grief more than common grief. Shak.

4. Not distinguished or exceptional; inconspicuous; ordinary;
plebeian; -- often in a depreciatory sense.
The honest, heart-felt enjoyment of common life. W. Irving.
This fact was infamous And ill beseeming any common man, Much more a
knight, a captain and a leader. Shak.
Above the vulgar flight of common souls. A. Murpphy.

5. Profane; polluted. [Obs.]
What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common. Acts x. 15.

6. Given to habits of lewdness; prostitute.
A dame who herself was common. L'Estrange.
Common bar (Law) Same as Blank bar, under Blank.
 -- Common barrator (Law), one who makes a business of instigating
litigation.
 -- Common Bench, a name sometimes given to the English Court of
Common Pleas.
 -- Common brawler (Law), one addicted to public brawling and
quarreling. See Brawler.
 -- Common carrier (Law), one who undertakes the office of carrying
(goods or persons) for hire. Such a carrier is bound to carry in all
cases when he has accommodation, and when his fixed price is
tendered, and he is liable for all losses and injuries to the goods,
except those which happen in consequence of the act of God, or of the
enemies of the country, or of the owner of the property himself.
 -- Common chord (Mus.), a chord consisting of the fundamental tone,
with its third and fifth.
 -- Common council, the representative (legislative) body, or the
lower branch of the representative body, of a city or other munisipal
corporation.
 -- Common crier, the crier of a town or city.
 -- Common divisor (Math.), a number or quantity that divides two or
more numbers or quantities without a remainder; a common measure.
 -- Common gender (Gram.), the gender comprising words that may be of
either the masculine or the feminine gender.
 -- Common law, a system of jurisprudence developing under the
guidance of the courts so as to apply a consistent and reasonable
rule to each litigated case. It may be superseded by statute, but
unless superseded it controls. Wharton.

Note: It is by others defined as the unwritten law (especially of
England), the law that receives its binding force from immemorial
usage and universal reception, as ascertained and expressed in the
judgments of the courts. This term is often used in contradistinction
from statute law. Many use it to designate a law common to the whole
country. It is also used to designate the whole body of English (or
other) law, as distinguished from its subdivisions, local, civil,
admiralty, equity, etc. See Law.
 -- Common lawyer, one versed in common law.
 -- Common lewdness (Law), the habitual performance of lewd acts in
public.
 -- Common multiple (Arith.) See under Multiple.
 -- Common noun (Gram.), the name of any one of a class of objects,
as distinguished from a proper noun (the name of a particular person
or thing).
 -- Common nuisance (Law), that which is deleterious to the health or
comfort or sense of decency of the community at large.
 -- Common pleas, one of the three superior courts of common law at
Westminster, presided over by a chief justice and four puisne judges.
Its jurisdiction is confined to civil matters. Courts bearing this
title exist in several of the United States, having, however, in some
cases, botth civil and criminal jurisdiction extending over the whole
State. In other States the jurisdiction of the common pleas is
limited to a county, and it is sometimes called a county court. Its
powers are generally defined by statute.
 -- Common prayer, the liturgy of the Church of England, or of the
Protestant Episcopal church of the United States, which all its
clergy are enjoined use. It is contained in the Book of Common
Prayer.
 -- Common school, a school maintained at the public expense, and
open to all.
 -- Common scold (Law), a woman addicted to scolding
indiscriminately, in public.
 -- Common seal, a seal adopted and used by a corporation.
 -- Common sense. (a) A supposed sense which was held to be the
common bond of all the others. [Obs.] Trench. (b) Sound judgment. See
under Sense.
 -- Common time (Mus.), that variety of time in which the measure
consists of two or of four equal portions.
 -- In common, equally with another, or with others; owned, shared,
or used, in community with others; affecting or affected equally.
 -- Out of the common, uncommon; extraordinary.
 -- Tenant in common, one holding real or personal property in common
with others, having distinct but undivided interests. See Joint
tenant, under Joint.
 -- To make common cause with, to join or ally one's self with.

Syn.
 -- General; public; popular; universal; frequent; ordinary;
customary; usual; familiar; habitual; vulgar; mean; trite; stale;
threadbare; commonplace. See Mutual, Ordinary, General.