

COPPLE
Cop"ple, n. Etym: [A dim. of Cop.]

Defn: Something rising in a conical shape; specifically, a hill
rising to a point.
A low cape, and upon it a copple not very high. Hakluyt.

COPPLE-CROWN
Cop"ple-crown, n.

Defn: A created or high-topped crown or head. "Like the copple-crown
the lapwing has." T. Randolph.
 -- Cop"ple-crowned`, a.

COPPLED
Cop"pled, a. Etym: [From Copple.]

Defn: Rising to a point; conical; copped. [Obs.] Woodward.

COPPLE DUST
Cop"ple dust`.

Defn: Cupel dust. [Obs.]
Powder of steel, or copple dust. Bacon.

COPPLESTONE
Cop"ple*stone`, n.

Defn: A cobblestone. [Obs.]

COPPS
Copps, n.

Defn: See Copse. [Obs.]

COPRA
Co"pra, n. Etym: [Malayálam koppara or Hind. khopra.] (Com.)

Defn: The dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil is
expressed. [Written also cobra, copperah, coppra.]

COPROLITE
Cop"ro*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. ko`pros dung + -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A piece of petrified dung; a fossil excrement.

COPROLITIC
Cop`ro*lit"ic, a.

Defn: Containing, pertaining to, or of the nature of, coprolites.

COPROPHAGAN
Co*proph"a*gan, n. Etym: [See Coprophagous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of beetle which feeds upon dung.

COPROPHAGOUS
Co*proph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding upon dung, as certain insects.

COP-ROSE
Cop-rose`, n. Etym: [F. coprose, of uncertain origin; cf. D.
klaproos, klapperroos.]

Defn: The red, or corn, poppy. [Written also cup-rose.]

COPS
Cops, n. Etym: [AS. cops, cosp, fetter.]

Defn: The connecting crook of a harrow. [Prov. Eng.]

COPSE
Copse, n. Etym: [Contr. from coppice.]

Defn: A wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice.
Near yonder copse where once the garden smiled. Goldsmith.

COPSE
Copse, v. t.

1. To trim or cut; -- said of small trees, brushwood, tufts of grass,
etc. Halliwell.

2. To plant and preserve, as a copse. Swift.

COPSEWOOD
Copse"wood, n.

Defn: Brushwood; coppice. Macaulay.

COPSY
Cops"y, a.

Defn: Characterized by copses. "Copsy villages." "Copsy banks." J.
Dyer.

COPTIC
Cop"tic, a. Etym: [Abbrev. from L. Aegyptius an Egyprian, Gr. kibti,
pl. kibt.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Copts.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of the Copts.

COPTIC CHURCH
Coptic Church.

Defn: The native church of Egypt or church of Alexandria, which in
general organization and doctrines resembles the Roman Catholic
Church, except that it holds to the Monophysitic doctrine which was
condemned (a. d. 451) by the council of Chalcedon, and allows its
priests to marry. The "pope and patriarch" has jurisdiction over the
Abyssinian Church. Since the 7th century the Coptic Church has been
so isolated from modifying influences that in many respects it is the
most ancient monument of primitive Christian rites and ceremonies.
But centuries of subjection to Moslem rule have weakened and degraded
it.

COPTS
Copts, n. pl.; sing. Copt. Etym: [See Coptic.] (Etnol.)

1. An Egyptian race thought to be descendants of the ancient
Egyptians.

2. The principal sect of Christians in Egypt and the valley of the
Nile.

Note: they belong to the Jacobite sect of Monophysite Christians, and
for eleven centuries have had possession of the patriarchal chair of
Alexandria.

COPULA
Cop"u*la, n. Etym: [L., bond, band. See Couple.]

1. (Logic & Gram.)

Defn: The word which unites the subject and predicate.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The stop which connects the manuals, or the manuals with the
pedals; -- called also coupler.

COPULATE
Cop"u*late, a. Etym: [L. copulatus, p.p. of copulare to couple, fr.
copula. See Copula.]

1. Joined; associated; coupled. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Joining subject and predicate; copulative. F. A. March.

COPULATE
Cop"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p.p. Copulated; p.pr. & vb.n. Copulating.]

Defn: To unite in sexual intercourse; to come together in the act of
generation.

COPULATION
Cop`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. copulatio: cf. F. copulation.]

1. The act of coupling or joining; union; conjunction.
Wit, you know, is the unexpected copulation of ideas. Johnson.

2. The coming together of male and female in the act of generation;
sexual union; coition.

COPULATIVE
Cop"u*la"tive, a. Etym: [L. copulativus: cf. F. copulatif.]

Defn: Serving to couple, unite, or connect; as, a copulative
conjunction like "and".

COPULATIVE
Cop"u*la*tive, n.

1. Connection. [Obs.] Rycaut.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A copulative conjunction.

COPULATIVELY
Cop"u*la"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a copulative manner.

COPULATORY
Cop"u*la*tory, a.

1. Pertaining to copulation; tending or serving to unite; copulative.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Used in sexual union; as, the copulatory organs of insects.

COPY
Cop"y, n.; pl. Copies. Etym: [F. copie, fr. L. copia abundance,
number, LL. also, a transcript; co- + the root of opes riches. See
Opulent, and cf. Copious.]

1. An abundance or plenty of anything. [Obs.]
She was blessed with no more copy of wit, but to serve his humor
thus. B. Jonson.

2. An imitation, transcript, or reproduction of an original work; as,
a copy of a letter, an engraving, a painting, or a statue.
I have not the vanity to think my copy equal to the original. Denham.

3. An individual book, or a single set of books containing the works
of an author; as, a copy of the Bible; a copy of the works of
Addison.

4. That which is to be imitated, transcribed, or reproduced; a
pattern, model, or example; as, his virtues are an excellent copy for
imitation.
Let him first learn to write, after a copy, all the letters. Holder.

5. (print.)

Defn: Manuscript or printed matter to be set up in type; as, the
printers are calling for more copy.

6. A writing paper Bastard. See under Paper.

7. Copyhold; tenure; lease. [Obs.] Shak. Copy book, a book in which
copies are written or printed for learners to imitate.
 -- Examined copies (Law), those which have been compared with the
originals.
 -- Exemplified copies, those which are attested under seal of a
court.
 -- Certified or Office copies, those which are made or attested by
officers having charge of the originals, and authorized to give
copies officially. Abbot.

Syn.
 -- Imitation; transcript; duplicate; counterfeit.

COPY
Cop"y, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Copied; p.pr. & vb.n. Copying.] Etym: [Cf.
F. copir, fr. LL. copiare. See Copy, n.]

1. To make a copy or copies of; to write; print, engrave, or paint
after an original; to duplicate; to reproduce; to transcribe; as, to
copy a manuscript, inscription, design, painting, etc.; -- often with
out, sometimes with off.
I like the work well; ere it be demanded (As like enough it will),
I'd have it copied. Shak.
Let this be copied out, And keep it safe for our remembrance. Shak.

2. To imitate; to attempt to resemble, as in manners or course of
life.
We copy instinctively the voices of our companions, their accents,
and their modes of pronunciation. Stewart.

COPY
Cop"y, v. i.

1. To make a copy or copies; to imitate.

2. To yield a duplicate or transcript; as, the letter did not copy
well.
Some . . . never fail, when they copy, to follow the bad as well as
the good things. Dryden.

COPYER
Cop"y*er, n.

Defn: See Copier.

COPYGRAPH
Cop"y*graph, n.

Defn: A contrivance for producing manifold copies of a writing or
drawing.

Note: The writing or drawing is made with aniline ink on paper, and a
reverse copy transferred by pressure to a slab of gelatin softened
with glycerin. A large number of transcripts can be taken while the
ink is fresh.
Various names have been given to the process [the gelatin copying
process], some of them acceptable and others absurd; hectograph,
polygraph, copygraph, lithogram, etc. Knight.

COPYHOLD
Cop"y*hold`, n. (Eng. Law)
(a) A tenure of estate by copy of court roll; or a tenure for which
the tenant has nothing to show, except the rolls made by the steward
of the lord's court. Blackstone.
(b) Land held in copyhold. Milton.

Note: Copyholds do not exist in the United States.

COPYHOLDER
Cop"y*hold`er, n.

1. (Eng. Law)

Defn: One possessed of land in copyhold.

2. (print.)
(a) A device for holding copy for a compositor.
(b) One who reads copy to a proof reader.

COPYING
Cop"y*ing, a. & n.

Defn: From Copy, v. Copying ink. See under Ink.
 -- Copying paper, thin unsized paper used for taking copies of
letters, etc., in a copying press.
 -- Copying press, a machine for taking by pressure, an exact copy of
letters, etc., written in copying ink.

COPYIST
Cop"y*ist, n.

Defn: A copier; a transcriber; an imitator; a plagiarist.

COPYRIGHT
Cop"y*right, n.

Defn: The right of an author or his assignee, under statute, to print
and publish his literary or artistic work, exclusively of all other
persons. This right may be had in maps, charts, engravings, plays,
and musical compositions, as well as in books.

Note: In the United States a copyright runs for the term of twenty-
eight years, with right of renewal for fourteen years on certain
conditions. International copyright, an author's right in his
productions as secured by treaty between nations.

COPYRIGHT
Cop"y*right`, v. t.

Defn: To secure a copyright on.

COQUE
Coque, n. [F., prop., a shell.]

Defn: A small loop or bow of ribbon used in making hats, boas, etc.

COQUELICOT
Coque"li*cot`, n. Etym: [F.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The wild poppy, or red corn rose.

2. The color of the wild poppy; a color nearly red, like orange mixed
with scarlet.

COQUET
Co*quet", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Coquetted; p.pr. & vb.n. Coquetting.]

Defn: To attempt to attract the notice, admiration, or love of; to
treat with a show of tenderness or regard, with a view to deceive and
disappoint.
You are coquetting a maid of honor. Swift.

COQUET
Co*quet", v. i.

Defn: To trifle in love; to stimulate affection or interest; to play
the coquette; to deal playfully instead of seriously; to play (with);
as, we have coquetted with political crime.

COQUETRY
Co*quet"ry, n.; pl. Coquetries. Etym: [F. coquetterie.]

Defn: Attempts to attract admoration, notice, or love, for the mere
gratification of vanity; trifling in love. "Little affectations of
coquetry." Addison.

COQUETTE
Co*quette", n. Etym: [F., fr. coquet, coquette, coquettish, orig.,
cocklike, strutting like a cock, fr. coq a cock. Cf. Cock, Cocket,
Cocky, Cockade.]

1. A vain, trifling woman, who endeavors to attract admiration from a
desire to grafity vanity; a flirt; -- formerly sometimes applied also
to men.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A tropical humming bird of the genus Lophornis, with very
elegant neck plumes. Several species are known. See Illustration
under Spangle, v. t.

COQUETTISH
Co*quet"tish, a.

Defn: Practicing or exhibiting coquetry; alluring; enticing.
A pretty, coquettish housemaid. W. Irving.

COQUETTISHLY
Co*quet"tish*ly, adv.

Defn: In a coquettish manner.

COQUILLA NUT
Co*quil"la nut. Etym: [Pg. coquilho, Sp. coquillo, dim. of coco a
cocoanut.] (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of a Brazilian tree (Attalea funifera of Martius.).

Note: Its shell is hazel-brown in color, very hard and close in
texture, and much used by turners in forming ornamental articles,
such as knobs for umbrella handles.

COQUILLE
Co*quille" (ko*kel"; F. ko`ke"y'), n. [F.] Lit., a shell; hence:
 (a) A shell or shell-like dish or mold in which viands are served.
 (b) The expansion of the guard of a sword, dagger, etc.
 (c) A form of ruching used as a dress trimming or for neckwear, and
named from the manner in which it is gathered or fulled.
[Webster 1913 Suppl.]

COQUIMBITE
Co*quim"bite, n.

Defn: A mineral consisting principally of sulphate of iron; white
copperas; -- so called because found in the province of Coquimbo,
Chili.

COQUINA
Co*qui"na, n. Etym: [Sp., shellfish, cockle.]

Defn: A soft, whitish, coral-like stone, formed of broken shells and
corals, found in the southern United States, and used for roadbeds
and for building material, as in the fort at St. Augustine, Florida.

COR-
Cor-.

Defn: A prefix signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.

COR
Cor, n. Etym: [Heb. k.]

Defn: A Hebrew measure of capacity; a homer. [Written also core.]

CORA
Co"ra, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica), found from persia to
North Africa.

CORACLE
Cor"a*cle, n. Etym: [W. corwgl, cwrwgl, fr. corwg, cwrwg, any round
body or vessel, the trunk of the body, carcass.]

Defn: A boat made by covering a wicker frame with leather or
oilcloth. It was used by the ancient Britons, and is still used by
fisherman in Wales and some parts of Ireland. Also, a similar boat
used in Thibet and in Egypt.

CORACOID
Cor"a*coid, a.Etym: [Gr. ko`rax crow + e'i^dos form.]

1. Shaped like a crow's beak.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to a bone of the shoulder girdle in most birds,
reptiles, and amphibians, which is reduced to a process of the
scapula in most mammals.

CORACOID
Cor"a*coid, n.

Defn: The coracoid bone or process.

CORAGE
Cor"age (; OF. , n.

Defn: See Courage [Obs.]
To Canterbury with full devout corage. Chaucer.

CORAH
Co"rah, n. [Hind. kora virgin, plain.]

Defn: Plain; undyed; -- applied to Indian silk. -- n.

Defn: Corah silk.

CORAL
Cor"al, n. Etym: [Of. coral, F, corail, L. corallum, coralium, fr.
Gr. kora`llion.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hard parts or skeleton of various Anthozoa, and of a few
Hydrozoa. Similar structures are also formed by some Bryozoa.

Note: The large stony corals forming coral reefs belong to various
genera of Madreporaria, and to the hydroid genus, Millepora. The red
coral, used in jewelry, is the stony axis of the stem of a gorgonian
(Corallium rubrum) found chiefly in the Mediterranean. The fan
corals, plume corals, and sea feathers are species of Gorgoniacea, in
which the axis is horny. Organ-pipe coral is formed by the genus
Tubipora, an Alcyonarian, and black coral is in part the axis of
species of the genus Antipathes. See Anthozoa, Madrepora.

2. The ovaries of a cooked lobster; -- so called from their color.

3. A piece of coral, usually fitted with small bells and other
appurtenances, used by children as a plaything. Brain coral, or Brain
stone coral. See under Brain.
 -- Chain coral. See under Chain.
 -- Coral animal (Zoöl.), one of the polyps by which corals are
formed. They are often very erroneously called coral insects.
 -- Coral fish. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Coral reefs (Phys. Geog.), reefs, often of great extent, made up
chiefly of fragments of corals, coral sands, and the solid limestone
resulting from their consolidation. They are classed as fringing
reefs, when they border the land; barrier reefs, when separated from
the shore by a broad belt of water; atolls, when they constitute
separate islands, usually inclosing a lagoon. See Atoll.
 -- Coral root (Bot.), a genus (Corallorhiza) of orchideous plants,
of a yellowish or brownish red color, parasitic on roots of other
plants, and having curious jointed or knotted roots not unlike some
kinds of coral. See Illust. under Coralloid.
 -- Coral snake. (Zo) (a) A small, venomous, Brazilian snake (Elaps
corallinus), coral-red, with black bands. (b) A small, harmless,
South American snake (Tortrix scytale).
 -- Coral tree (Bot.), a tropical, leguminous plant, of several
species, with showy, scarlet blossoms and coral-red seeds. The best
known is Erythrina Corallodendron.
 -- Coral wood, a hard, red cabinet wood. McElrath.

CORALED
Cor"aled, a.

Defn: Having coral; covered with coral.

CORAL FISH
Cor"al fish`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bright-colored fish of the genera Chætodon, Pomacentrus,
Apogon, and related genera, which live among reef corals.

CORALLACEOUS
Cor`al*la"ceous, a.

Defn: Like coral, or partaking of its qualities.

CORALLIAN
Co*ral"li*an, n. (Geol.)

Defn: A deposit of coralliferous limestone forming a portion of the
middle division of the oölite; -- called also coral-rag.

CORALLIFEROUS
Cor`al*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. corallum coral + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing or producing coral.

CORALLIFORM
Cor"al*li*form, a. Etym: [L. corallum coral + -form.]

Defn: resembling coral in form.

CORALLIGENA
Cor`al*lig"e*na, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. corallum coral + root of
gignere to produce.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Anthozoa.

CORALLIGENOUS
Cor`al*lig"e*nous, a.

Defn: producing coral; coraligerous; coralliferous. Humble.

CORALLIGEROUS
Cor`al*lig"er*ous, a Etym: [L. corallum coral + -gerous.]

Defn: Producing coral; coraliferous.

CORALLIN
Cor"al*lin, n. Etym: [So named in allusion to the color of red
corallin, fr. L. corallum coral.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow coal-tar dyestuff which probably consists chiefly of
rosolic acid. See Aurin, and Rosolic acid under Rosolic. Red
corallin, a red dyestuff which is obtained by treating aurin or
rosolic acid with ammonia; -- called also pæonin.
 -- Yellow corallin. See Aurin.

CORALLINE
Cor"al*line ( or ), a. Etym: [Cf. L. corallinus coralred.]

Defn: Composed of corallines; as, coralline limestone.

CORALLINE
Cor"al*line, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coralline.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A submarine, semicalcareous or calcareous plant, consisting of
many jointed branches.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Formerly any slender coral-like animal; -- sometimes applied
more particulary to bryozoan corals.

CORALLINITE
Cor"al*lin*ite, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil coralline.

CORALLITE
Cor"al*lite, n. Etym: [L. corallum coral.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral substance or petrifaction, in the form of coral.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the individual members of a compound coral; or that part
formed by a single coral animal. [Written also corallet.]

CORALLOID
Cor"al*loid, a. Etym: [L. corallum coral + -oid: cf. F. coralloïde.]

Defn: Having the form of coral; branching like coral.

CORALLOIDAL
Cor`al*loid"al, a.

Defn: resembling coral; coralloid. Sir T. browne.

CORALLUM
Co*ral"lum, n. Etym: [L.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The coral or skeleton of a zoöphyte, whether calcareous of
horny, simple or compound. See Coral.

CORAL-RAG
Cor"al-rag`, n. (geol.)

Defn: Same as Corallian.

CORALWORT
Cor"al*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A cruciferous herb of certain species of Dentaria; -- called
also toothwort, tooth violet, or pepper root.

CORANACH
Cor"a*nach, n. Etym: [Gael. coranach, or corranach, a crying, the
Irish funeral cry (the keen), a dirge; comh with + ranaich a roaring,
ran to roar, shriek.]

Defn: A lamentation for the dead; a dirge. [Written also coranich,
corrinoch, coronach, cronach, etc.] [Scot.]

CORANT; CORANTO
Co*rant, Co*ran"to, n. Etym: [See Courant.]

Defn: A sprightly but somewhat stately dance, now out of fashion.
It is harder to dance a corant well, than a jig. Sir W. temple.
Dancing a coranto with him upon the heath. Macaulay.

CORB
Corb, n. Etym: [L. corbis basket. Cf. Corbeil, Corp.]

1. A basket used in coal mines, etc. see Corf.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament in a building; a corbel.

CORBAN
Cor"ban, n. Etym: [Heb. qorban, akin to Ar. qurban.]

1. (Jewish Antiq.) An offering of any kind, devoted to God and
therefore not be appropriated to any other use; esp., an offering in
fulfillment of a vow.

Note: In the old Testament the hebrew word is usually translated
"oblation" as in Numb. xviii. 9, xxxi. 50.

Note: The traditionists laid down that a man might interdict himself
by vow, not only from using for himself, but from giving to another,
or receiving from him, some particular object, whether of food or any
other kind. A person might thus exempt himself from assisting parents
in distress, under plea of corban. Dr. W. Smith.

2. An alms basket; a vessel to receive gifts of charity; a treasury
of the church, where offerings are deposited.

CORBE
Corbe, a. Etym: [OF. corbe, fr. L. curvus. See Cuve.]

Defn: Crooked. [Obs.] "Corbe shoulder." Spenser.

CORBEIL
Cor"beil, n. Etym: [F. corbeile, fr. L. corbicula a little basket,
dim. of corbis basket. Cf. Corbel, Corb, Corvette.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A sculptured basket of flowers; a corbel. [Obs.]

2. pl. (Fort.)

Defn: Small gabions. Brande & C.

CORBEL
Cor"bel, n. Etym: [F. corbeau, for older corbel, dim. of L. corbis
basket. (Corbels were often in the form of a basket.) See Corbeil.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving the
spring of an arch. Corbels were employed largely in Gothic
architecture.

Note: A common form of corbel consists of courses of stones or
bricks, each projecting slightly beyond the next below it.

CORBEL
Cor"bel, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with a corbel or corbels; to support by a corbel; to
make in the form of a corbel. To corbel out, to furnish with a corbel
of courses, each projecting beyond the one next below it.

CORBELING; CORBELLING
Cor"bel*ing, Cor"bel*ling, n.

Defn: Corbel work or the construction of corbels; a series of corbels
or piece of continuous corbeled masonry, sometimes of decorative
purpose, as in the stalactite ornament of the Moslems.

CORBEL-TABLE
Cor"bel-ta`ble, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A horizontal row of corbels, with the panels or filling between
them; also, less properly used to include the stringcourse on them.

CORBIE; CORBY
Cor"bie or Cor"by, n.; pl. Corbies. Etym: [F. corbeau, OF. corbel,
dim. fr. L. corvus raven.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The raven. [Scot.]

2. (her.)

Defn: A raven, crow, or chough, used as a charge. Corbie crow, the
carrion crow. [Scot.]

CORBIESTEP
Cor"bie*step`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: One of the steps in which a gable wall is often finished in
place of a continuous slope; -- also called crowstep.

CORCHORUS
Cor"cho*rus, n. Etym: [Nl., fr. L. corchorus a poor kind of pulse,
Gr. ko`rchoros a wild plant of bitter taste.] (Bot.)

Defn: The common name of the kerria Japonica or Japan globeflower, a
yellow-flowered, perennial, rosaceous plant, seen in old-fashioned
gardens.

CORCLE; CORCULE
Cor"cle, Cor"cule, n. Etym: [L. corculum a little heart, dim. of cor
heart.] (Bot.)

Defn: The heart of the seed; the embryo or germ. [Obs.]

CORD
Cord, n. Etym: [F. corde, L. chorda catgut, chord, cord, fr. Gr.
haruspex soothsayer (inspector of entrails), Icel. görn, pl. garnir
gut, and E. yarn. Cf. Chord, Yarn.]

1. A string, or small rope, composed of several strands twisted
together.

2. A solid measure, equivalent to 128 cubic feet; a pile of wood, or
other coarse material, eight feet long, four feet high, and four feet
broad; -- originally measured with a cord or line.

3. Fig.: Any moral influence by which persons are caught, held, or
drawn, as if by a cord; an enticement; as, the cords of the wicked;
the cords of sin; the cords of vanity.
The knots that tangle human creeds, The wounding cords that bind and
strain The heart until it bleeds. Tennyson.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: Any structure having the appearance of a cord, esp. a tendon or
a nerve. See under Spermatic, Spinal, Umbilical, Vocal.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: See Chord. [Obs.] Cord wood, wood for fuel cut to the length of
four feet (when of full measure).

CORD
Cord (krd), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Corded; p. pr. & vb. n. Cording.]

1. To bind with a cord; to fasten with cords; to connect with cords;
to ornament or finish with a cord or cords, as a garment.

2. To arrange (wood, etc.) in a pile for measurement by the cord.

CORDAGE
Cord"age (krd"j), n. Etym: [F. cordage. See Cord.]

Defn: Ropes or cords, collectively; hence, anything made of rope or
cord, as those parts of the rigging of a ship which consist of ropes.

CORDAL
Cord"al (krd"al), n.

Defn: Same as Cordelle.

CORDATE
Cordate (kr"dt), a. Etym: [L. cor, cordis, heart.] (Bot.)

Defn: Heart-shaped; as, a cordate leaf.

CORDATELY
Cor"date*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cordate form.

CORDED
Cord"ed (krd"d), a.

1. Bound or fastened with cords.

2. Piled in a form for measurement by the cord.

3. Made of cords. [Obs.] "A corded ladder." Shak.

4. Striped or ribbed with cords; as, cloth with a corded surface.

5. (Her.)

Defn: Bound about, or wound, with cords.

CORDELIER
Cor`de*lier" (kr`dlr"), n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. cordel, F. cordeau,
dim. fr. corde string, rope. See Cord.]

1. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A Franciscan; -- so called in France from the girdle of knotted
cord worn by all Franciscans.

2. (Fr. Hist.)

Defn: A member of a French political club of the time of the first
Revolution, of which Danton and Marat were members, and which met in
an old Cordelier convent in Paris.

CORDELING
Cor"del*ing (kr"dlng), a. Etym: [F. cordeler to twist, fr. OF.
cordel. See Cordelier.]

Defn: Twisting.

CORDELLE
Cor*delle" (kr-dl"), n. Etym: [F., dim. of corde cord.]

Defn: A twisted cord; a tassel. Halliwell.

CORDIAL
Cor"dial (kr"jal, formally krd"yal; 106, 277), a. Etym: [LL.
cordialis, fr. L. cor heart: cf. F. cordial. See Heart.]

1. Proceeding from the heart. [Obs.]
A rib with cordial spirits warm. Milton.

2. Hearty; sincere; warm; affectionate.
He . . . with looks of cordial love Hung over her enamored. Milton.

3. Tending to revive, cheer, or invigorate; giving strength or
spirits.
Behold this cordial julep here That flames and dances in his crystal
bounds. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Hearty; sincere; heartfelt; warm; affectionate; cheering;
invigorating. See Hearty.

CORDIAL
Cor"dial, n.

1. Anything that comforts, gladdens, and exhilarates.
Charms to my sight, and cordials to my mind. Dryden.

2. (Med)

Defn: Any invigorating and stimulating preparation; as, a peppermint
cordial.

3. (Com.)

Defn: Aromatized and sweetened spirit, used as a beverage; a liqueur.

CORDIALITY
Cor*dial"i*ty (k, n.; pl. Cordialities (-t. Etym: [LL. cordialitas,
fr. cordialis sincere: cf. F. cordialité.]

1. Relation to the heart. [Obs.]
That the ancients had any respect of cordiality or reference unto the
heart, will much be doubted. Sir T. Browne.

2. Sincere affection and kindness; warmth of regard; heartiness.
Motley.

CORDIALIZE
Cor"dial*ize (kr"jal-z or krd"yal-z; 106), v. t.

1. To make into a cordial.

2. To render cordial; to reconcile.

CORDIALIZE
Cor"dial*ize, v. i.

Defn: To grow cordial; to feel or express cordiality. [R.]

CORDIALLY
Cor"dial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a cordial manner. Dr. H. More.

CORDIALNESS
Cor"dial*ness, n.

Defn: Cordiality. Cotgrave.

CORDIERITE
Cor"di*er*ite (k, n. Etym: [Named after the geologist Cordier.]
(Min.)

Defn: See Iolite.

CORDIFORM
Cor"di*form (kr"d-frm), a. Etym: [L. cor, cordis, heart + -form, cf.
F. cordiforme.]

Defn: Heart-shaped. Gray.

CORDILLERA
Cor*dil"ler*a (kr-dl"lr-; Sp. kr`d-ly"r), n. Etym: [Sp., fr. OSp.
cordilla, cordiella, dim. of cuerda a rope, string. See Cord.]
(Geol.)

Defn: A mountain ridge or chain.

Note: Cordillera is sometimes applied, in geology, to the system of
mountain chains near the border of a continent; thus, the western
cordillera of North America in the United States includes the Rocky
Mountains, Sierra Nevada, Coast and Cascade ranges.

CORDINER
Cor"di*ner (kr"d-nr), n.

Defn: A cordwainer. [Obs.]

CORDITE
Cord"ite, n. [From Cord, n.] (Mil.)

Defn: A smokeless powder composed of nitroglycerin, guncotton, and
mineral jelly, and used by the British army and in other services. In
making it the ingredients are mixed into a paste with the addition of
acetone and pressed out into cords  (of various diameters) resembling
brown twine, which are dried and cut to length. A variety containing
less nitroglycerin than the original is known  as cordite M. D.

CORDON
Cor"don (kr"dn; F. kr"dn"), n. Etym: [F., fr. corde. See Cord.]

1. A cord or ribbon bestowed or borne as a badge of honor; a broad
ribbon, usually worn after the manner of a baldric, constituting a
mark of a very high grade in an honorary order. Cf. Grand cordon.

2. The cord worn by a Franciscan friar. Sir E. Sandys.

3. (Fort.)

Defn: The coping of the scarp wall, which projects beyong the face of
the wall a few inches.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: A line or series of sentinels, or of military posts, inclosing
or guarding any place or thing.

5. A rich and ornamental lace or string, used to secure a mantle in
some costumes of state. Cordon bleu (kd" bl Etym: [F., blue cordon],
a first-rate cook, or one worthy to be the cook of the cordons bleus,
or Knights of the Holy Ghost, famous for their good dinners.
 -- Cordon sanitaire (kd" s Etym: [F., sanitary cordon], a line of
troops or military posts around a district infected with disease, to
cut off communication, and thus prevent the disease from spreading.

CORDONNET
Cor`don`net" (kr`dn`n"), n. Etym: [F., dim. of cordon. See Cardon.]

Defn: Doubled and twisted thread, made of coarse silk, and used for
tassels, fringes, etc. McElrath.

CORDOVAN
Cor"do*van (kr"d-vn), n. Etym: [Sp. cordoban, fr. Cordova, or
Cordoba, in Spain. Cf. Cordwain.]

Defn: Same as Cordwain. in England the name is applied to leather
made from horsehide.

CORDUROY
Cor"du*roy` (kr"d-roi` or kr"d-roi"), n. Etym: [Prob. for F. corde du
roi king's cord.]

1. A sort of cotton velveteen, having the surface raised in ridges.

2. pl.

Defn: Trousers or breeches of corduroy. Corduroy road, a roadway
formed of logs laid side by side across it, as in marshy places; --
so called from its rough or ribbed surface, resembling corduroy.
[U.S.]

CORDUROY
Cor"du*roy`, v. t.

Defn: To form of logs laid side by side. "Roads were corduroyed."
Gemn. W.T. Sherman.

CORDWAIN
Cord"wain (krd"wn), n. Etym: [OE. cordewan, cordian, OF. cordoan,
cordouan, fr. Sp. cordoban. See Cordovan.]

Defn: A term used in the Middle Ages for Spanish leather (goatskin
tanned and dressed), and hence, any leather handsomely finished,
colored, gilded, or the like.
Buskins he wore of costliest cordwain. Spenser.

CORDWAINER
Cord"wain*er (-r), n. Etym: [OE. cordwaner, cordiner, fr. OF.
cordoanier, cordouanier, F. cordonnier.]

Defn: A worker in cordwain, or cordovan leather; a shoemaker.
[Archaic.]

CORDY
Cord"y (kôr"dy), a. [Compar. Cordier; superl. Cordiest.]

Defn: Of, or like, cord; having cords or cordlike parts.

CORE
Core (kr), n. Etym: [F. corps. See Corps.]

Defn: A body of individuals; an assemblage. [Obs.]
He was in a core of people. Bacon.

CORE
Core, n. Etym: [Cf. Chore.] (Mining.)

Defn: A miner's underground working time or shift. Raymond.

Note: The twenty-four hours are divided into three or four cores.

CORE
Core, n. Etym: [Heb. k: cf. Gr.

Defn: A Hebrew dry measure; a cor or homer. Num. xi. 32 (Douay
version).

CORE
Core, n. Etym: [OF. cor, coer, cuer, F. c, fr. L. cor heart. See
Heart.]

1. The heart or inner part of a thing, as of a column, wall, rope, of
a boil, etc.; especially, the central part of fruit, containing the
kernels or seeds; as, the core of an apple or quince.
A fever at the core, Fatal to him who bears, to all who ever bore.
Byron.

2. The center or inner part, as of an open space; as, the core of a
ssquare. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

3. The most important part of a thing; the essence; as, the core of a
subject.

4. (Founding)

Defn: The prtion of a mold which shapes the interior of a cylinder,
tube, or other hollow casting, or which makes a hole in or through a
casting; a part of the mold, made separate from and inserted in it,
for shaping some part of the casting, the form of which is not
determined by that of the pattern.

5. A disorder of sheep occasioned by worms in the liver. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

6. (Anat.)

Defn: The bony process which forms the central axis of the horns in
many animals. Core box (Founding), a box or mold, usually divisible,
in which cores are molded.
 -- Core print (Founding), a projecting piece on a pattern which
forms, in the mold, an impression for holding in place or steadying a
core.

CORE
Core, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cord (krd); p. pr. & vb. n. Coring.]

1. To take out the core or inward parts of; as, to core an apple.
He's likee a corn upon my great toe . . . he must be cored out.
Marston.

2. To form by means of a core, as a hole in a casting.

CO-REGENT
Co-re"gent (k-r"jent), n.

Defn: A joint regent or ruler.

CO-RELATION
Co`-re*la"tion (k`r-l"shn), n.

Defn: Corresponding relation.

CO-RELIGIONIST
Co`-re*li"gion*ist (-lj"n-st), n.

Defn: One of the same religion with another.

CORE LOSS
Core loss. (Elec.)

Defn: Energy wasted by hysteresis or eddy currents in the core of an
armature, transformer, etc.

COREOPSIS
Co`re*op"sis (k`r-p"ss), n. Etym: [NL., fr. GR. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous composite plants, having the achenes two-
horned and remotely resembling some insect; tickseed. C. tinctoria,
of the Western plains, the commonest plant of the genus, has been
used in dyeing.

COREPLASTY
Cor"e*plas`ty (kor"e*plas`ty), n. [Gr. ko`rh pupil + -plasty.] (Med.)

Defn: A plastic operation on the pupil, as for forming an artificial
pupil. -- Cor`e*plas"tic (-plas"tik), a.

CORER
Cor"er (krr"rr), n.

Defn: That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an apple
corer.

CO-RESPONDENT
Co`-re*spond"ent (k`rr-spnd"ent), n. (Law)

Defn: One who is called upon to answer a summons or other proceeding
jointly with another.

CORF
Corf (krrf), n.; pl. Corves (k. Etym: [Cf.LG. & D. korf basket, G.
korb, fr. L. corbis.]

1. A basket.

2. (Mining)
(a) A large basket used in carrying or hoisting coal or ore.
(b) A wooden frame, sled, or low-wheeled wagon, to convey coal or ore
in the mines.

CORFIOTE; CORFUTE
Cor"fi*ote (kr"f-t), Cor"fute (kr"ft), n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Corfu, an island in the Mediterranean
Sea.

CORIACEOUS
Co`ri*a"ceous (k`r-"shs), a. Etym: [L. coriaceous, fr. corium
leather. See Cuirass.]

1. Consisting of or resembling, leather; leatherlike; tough.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Stiff, like leather or parchment.

CORIANDER
Co`ri*an"der (k`r-n"dr), n Etym: [L. coriandrum, fr. Gr. coriandre.]
(Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant, the Coriandrum sativum, the fruit or
seeds of which have a strong smell and a spicy taste, and in medicine
are considered as stomachic and carminative.

CORIDINE
Co"ri*dine (k"r-dn; 104), n. Etym: [From L. cortium leather.]

Defn: A colorless or yellowish oil, C10H15N, of a leathery odor,
occuring in coal tar, Dippel's oil, tobacco smoke, etc., regarded as
an organic base, homologous with pyridine. Also, one of a series of
metameric compounds of which coridine is a type. [Written also
corindine.]

CORINDON
Co*rin"don (k-rn"dn), n. (Min.)

Defn: See Corrundum.

CORINNE
Co`rinne" (k`rn"), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common gazelle (Gazella dorcas). See Gazelle. [Written also
korin.]

CORINTH
Cor"inth (kr"nth), n. Etym: [L. Corinthus, Gr. Currant.]

1. A city of Greece, famed for its luxury and extravagance.

2. A small fruit; a currant. [Obs.] Broome.

CORINTHIAC
Co*rin"thi*ac (k-rn"th-k), a. Etym: [L. Corinthiacus.]

Defn: Pertaining to Corinth.

CORINTHIAN
Co*rin"thi*an (-an), a.

1. Of or relating to Corinth.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Corinthian order of architecture,
invented by the Greeks, but more commonly used by the Romans.
This is the lightest and most ornamental of the three orders used by
the Greeks. Parker.

3. Debauched in character or practice; impure. Milton.

4. Of or pertaining to an amateur sailor or yachtsman; as, a
corinthian race (one in which the contesting yachts must be manned by
amateurs.)

CORINTHIAN
Co*rin"thi*an, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Corinth.

2. A gay, licentious person. [Obs.]

CORIUM
Co"ri*um (k"r-m), n. Etym: [L. corium leather.]

1. Armor made of leather, particularly that used by the Romans; used
also by Enlish soldiers till the reign of Edward I. Fosbroke.

2. (Anat.)
(a) Same as Dermis.
(b) The deep layer of mucous membranes beneath the epithelium.

CORIVAL
Co*ri"val (k-r"val), n.

Defn: A rival; a corrival.

CORIVAL
Co*ri"val, v. t.

Defn: To rival; to pretend to equal. Shak.

CORIVALRY; CORIVALSHIP
Co*ri"val*ry, Co*ri"val*ship, n.

Defn: Joint rivalry.

CORK
Cork (krk), n. Etym: [Cf. G., Dan., & Sw. kork, D. kurk; all fr. Sp.
corcho, fr. L. cortex, corticis, bark, rind. Cf. Cortex.]

1. The outer layer of the bark of the cork tree (Quercus Suber), of
which stoppers for bottles and casks are made. See Cutose.

2. A stopper for a bottle or cask, cut out of cork.

3. A mass of tabular cells formed in any kind of bark, in greater or
less abundance.

Note: Cork is sometimes used wrongly for calk, calker; calkin, a
sharp piece of iron on the shoe of a horse or ox. Cork jackets, a
jacket having thin pieces of cork inclosed within canvas, and used to
aid in swimming.
 -- Cork tree (Bot.), the species of oak (Quercus Suber of Southern
Europe) whose bark furnishes the cork of commerce.

CORK
Cork, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corked (krkt); p. pr. & vb. n. Corking.]

1. To stop with a cork, as a bottle.

2. To furnish or fit with cork; to raise on cork.
Tread on corked stilts a prisoner's pace. Bp. Hall.

Note: To cork is sometimes used erroneously for to calk, to furnish
the shoe of a horse or ox with sharp points, and also in the meaning
of cutting with a calk.

CORKAGE
Cork"age (-j), n.

Defn: The charge made by innkeepers for drawing the cork and taking
care of bottles of wine bought elsewhere by a guest.

CORKED
Corked (krkt), a.

Defn: having acquired an unpleasant taste from the cork; as, a bottle
of wine is corked.

CORK FOSSIL
Cork" fos`sil (krk" fs`sl). (Min.)

Defn: A variety of amianthus which is very light, like cork.

CORKINESS
Cork"i*ness (--ns), n.

Defn: The quality of being corky.

CORKING PIN
Cork"ing pin` (krk"ng pn`).

Defn: A pin of a large size, formerly used attaching a woman's
headdress to a cork mold. [Obs.] Swift.

CORKSCREW
Cork"screw` (-skr"), n.

Defn: An instrument with a screw or a steel spiral for drawing corks
from bottles. Corkscrew starts, a spiral staircase around a solid
newel.

CORKSCREW
Cork"screw`, v. t.

Defn: To press forward in a winding way; as, to corksrew one's way
through a crowd. [Colloq.] Dickens.

CORKWING
Cork"wing` (-wng`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish; the goldsinny.

CORKWOOD
Cork"wood` (kôrk"wood`), n.

1. The wood of the cork oak. [Obs.]

2.  Any one of several trees or shrubs having light or corky wood;
esp.:
 (a) In the United States, the tree Leitneria floridana.
 (b) In the West Indies: (1) Either of the cotton trees Ochroma
lagopus and Pariti tiliaceum.  (2)

Defn: The tree producing the aligator apple. (3)

Defn: The blolly.

CORKY
Cork"y (-), a.

1. Consisting of, or like, cork; dry shriveled up.
Bind fast hiss corky arms. Shak.

2. Tasting of cork.

CORM
Corm (krm), n. Etym: [See Cormus.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Cormus, 2.

CORMOGENY
Cor*mog"e*ny (kr-mj"-n), n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The embryological history of groups or families of individuals.

CORMOPHYLOGENY
Cor`mo*phy*log"e*ny (kr`m-f-lj"-n), n. Etym: [Gr. phylogeny.] (Biol.)

Defn: The phylogeny of groups or families of individuals. Haeckel.

CORMOPHYTES; CORMOPHYTA
Cor"mo*phytes (kr"m-fts), Cor*moph"y*ta (kr-mf"-t), n. pl. Etym: [NL.
cormophyta, fr. Gr. trunk of a tree + (Bot.)

Defn: A term proposed by Endlicher to include all plants with an axis
containing vascular tissue and with foliage.

CORMORANT
Cor`mo*rant (kr"m-rant), n. Etym: [F. cormoran, fr. Armor. m a sea
raven; m sea + bran raven, with cor, equiv. to L. corvus raven,
pleonastically prefixed; or perh. fr. L. corvus marinus sea raven.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of Phalacrocorax, a genus of sea birds having a sac
under the beak; the shag. Cormorants devour fish voraciously, and
have become the emblem of gluttony. They are generally black, and
hence are called sea ravens, and coalgeese. [Written also corvorant.]

2. A voracious eater; a glutton, or gluttonous servant. B. Jonson.

CORMORAUT
Cor"mo*raut, a.

Defn: Ravenous; voracious.
Cormorant, devouring time. Shak.

CORMUS
Cor"mus (kr"ms), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: See Corm.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A vegetable or animal made up of a number of individuals, such
as, for example, would be formed by a process of budding from a
parent stalk wherre the buds remain attached.

CORN
Corn (krn), n. Etym: [L. cornu horn: cf. F. corne horn, hornlike
excrescence. See Horn.]

Defn: A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toees,
by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome.
Welkome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes Unplagued with corns,
will have a bout with you. Shak.

Note: The substance of a corn usually resembles horn, but where
moisture is present, as between the toes, it is white and sodden, and
is called a soft corn.

CORN
Corn, n. Etym: [AS. corn; akin to OS. korn, D. koren, G., Dan., Sw.,
& Icel. korn, Goth. ka, L. granum, Russ. zerno. Cf. Grain, Kernel.]

1. A single seed of certain plants, as wheat, rye, barley, and maize;
a grain.

2. The various farinaceous grains of the cereal grasses used for
food, as wheat, rye, barley, maize, oats.

Note: In Scotland, corn is generally restricted to oats, in the
United States, to maize, or Indian corn, of which there are several
kinds; as, yellow corn, which grows chiefly in the Northern States,
and is yellow when ripe; white or southern corn, which grows to a
great height, and has long white kernels; sweet corn, comprising a
number of sweet and tender varieties, grown chiefly at the North,
some of which have kernels that wrinkle when ripe and dry; pop corn,
any small variety, used for popping.

3. The plants which produce corn, when growing in the field; the
stalks and ears, or the stalks, ears, and seeds, after reaping and
before thrashing.
In one night, ere glimpse of morn, His shadowy flail had thrashed the
corn. Milton.

4. A small, hard particle; a grain. "Corn of sand." Bp. Hall. "A corn
of powder." Beau & Fl. Corn ball, a ball of popped corn stuck
together with soft candy from molasses or sugar.
 -- Corn bread, bread made of Indian meal.
 -- Corn cake, a kind of corn bread; johnny cake; hoecake.
 -- Corn cockle (Bot.), a weed (Agrostemma or Lychnis Githago),
having bright flowers, common in grain fields.
 -- Corn flag (Bot.), a plant of the genus Gladiolus; -- called also
sword lily.
 -- Corn fly. (Zoöl.) (a) A small fly which, in the larval state, is
injurious to grain, living in the stalk, and causing the disease
called "gout," on account of the swelled joints. The common European
species is Chlorops tæniopus. (b) A small fly (Anthomyia ze) whose
larva or maggot destroys seed corn after it has been planted.
 -- Corn fritter, a fritter having green Indian corn mixed through
its batter. [U. S.] -- Corn laws, laws regulating trade in corn,
especially those in force in Great Britain till 1846, prohibiting the
importation of foreign grain for home consumption, except when the
price rose above a certain rate.
 -- Corn marigold. (Bot.) See under Marigold.
 -- Corn oyster, a fritter containing grated green Indian corn and
butter, the combined taste resembling that of oysters. [U.S.] -- Corn
parsley (Bot.), a plant of the parsley genus (Petroselinum ssegetum),
a weed in parts of Europe and Asia.
 -- Corn popper, a utensil used in popping corn.
 -- Corn poppy (Bot.), the red poppy (Papaver Rhoeas), common in
European cornfields; -- also called corn rose.
 -- Corn rent, rent paid in corn.
 -- Corn rose. See Corn poppy.
 -- Corn salad (Bot.), a name given to several species of
Valerianella, annual herbs sometimes used for salad. V. olitoria is
also called lamb's lettuce.
 -- Corn stone, red limestone. [Prov. Eng.] -- Corn violet (Bot.), a
species of Campanula.
 -- Corn weevil. (Zoöl.) (a) A small weevil which causes great injury
to grain. (b) In America, a weevil (Sphenophorus zeæ) which attacks
the stalk of maize near the root, often doing great damage. See Grain
weevil, under Weevil.

CORN
Corn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corned (krnd); p. pr. & vb. n. Corning.]

1. To preserve and season with salt in grains; to sprinkle with salt;
to cure by salting; now, specifically, to salt slightly in brine or
otherwise; as, to corn beef; to corn a tongue.

2. To form into small grains; to granulate; as, to corn gunpowder.

3. To feed with corn or (in Sctland) oats; as, to corn horses.
Jamieson.

4. To render intoxicated; as, ale strong enough to corn one.
[Colloq.] Corning house, a house or place where powder is corned or
granulated.

CORNAGE
Cor"nage (kr"nj), n. Etym: [OF.,, horn-blowing, tax on horned cattle,
fr. F. corne a horn, L. cornu.] (Law)

Defn: Anancient tenure of land, which obliged the tenant to give
notice of an invasion by blowing a horn.

CORNAMUTE
Cor"na*mute (kr"n-mt), n.

Defn: A cornemuse. [Obs.]

CORNBIND
Corn"bind` (krn"bnd`), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A weed that binds stalks of corn, as Convolvulus arvensis,
Polygonum Convolvulus. [Prov. Eng.]

CORNCOB
Corn"cob` (krn"kb`), n.

Defn: The cob or axis on which the kernels of Indian corn grow.
[U.S.]

CORNCRAKE
Corn"crake` (-krk`), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird (Crex crex or C. pratensis) which frequents grain
fields; the European crake or land rail; -- called also corn bird.

CORNCRIB
Corn"crib` (krn"krb`), n.

Defn: A crib for storing corn.

CORNCUTTER
Corn"cut`ter (-kt`tr), n.

1. A machine for cutting up stalks of corn for food of cattle.

2. An implement consisting of a long blade, attached to a handle at
nearly a right angle, used for cutting down the stalks of Indian
corn.

CORNDODGER
Corn"dodg`er (-dj`r), n.

Defn: A cake made of the meal of Indian corn, wrapped in a covering
of husks or paper, and baked under the embers. [U.S.] Bartlett.

CORNEA
Cor"ne*a (kr"n-), n.; pl. Corneas (-. Etym: [Fem. sing., fr. L.
corneus horny, fr. cornu a horn. See Horn.] (Anat.)

Defn: The transparent part of the coat of the eyeball which covers
the iris and pupil and admits light to the interior. See Eye.

CORNEAL
Cor"ne*al (-al), a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the cornea.

CORNEL
Cor"nel (-nl), n. Etym: [OF. cornille, cornoille, F. cornouille,
cornel berry, LL. cornolium cornel tree, fr. L. cornus, fr. cornu
horn, in allusion to the hardness of the wood. See Horn.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The cornelian cherry (Cornus Mas), a European shrub with
clusters of small, greenish flowers, followed by very acid but edible
drupes resembling cherries.

2. Any species of the genus Cornus, as C. florida, the flowering
cornel; C. stolonifera, the osier cornel; C. Canadensis, the dwarf
cornel, or bunchberry.

CORNELIAN
Cor*nel"ian (kr-nlyan), n. Etym: [F. cornaline, OF. corneline, fr. L.
cornu horn. So called from its horny appearance when broken. See
Horn, and cf. Carnelian.] (Min.)

Defn: Same as Carnelian.

CORNEMUSE
Corne"muse (krn"mz), n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A wind instrument nearly identical with the bagpipe. Drayton.

CORNEOCALCAREOUS
Cor"ne*o*cal*ca"re*ous (krn--kl-k"r-s), a.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Formed of a mixture of horny and calcareous materials, as some
shells and corals.

2. Horny on one side and calcareous on the other.

CORNEOUS
Cor"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. corneus, fr. cornu horn.]

Defn: Of a texture resembling horn; horny; hard. Sir T. Browne.

CORNER
Cor"ner (kr"nr), n. Etym: [OF. corniere, cornier, LL. cornerium,
corneria, fr. L. cornu horn, end, point. See Horn.]

1. The point where two converging lines meet; an angle, either
external or internal.

2. The space in the angle between converging lines or walls which
meet in a point; as, the chimney corner.

3. An edge or extremity; the part farthest from the center; hence,
any quarter or part.
From the four corners of the earth they come. Shak.

4. A secret or secluded place; a remote or out of the way place; a
nook.
This thing was not done in a corner. Acts xxvi. 26.

5. Direction; quarter.
Sits the wind in that corner! Shak.

6. The state of things produced by a combination of persons, who buy
up the whole or the available part of any stock or species of
property, which compels those who need such stock or property to buy
of them at their own price; as, a corner in a railway stock.
[Broker's Cant] Corner stone, the stone which lies at the corner of
two walls, and unites them; the principal stone; especially, the
stone which forms the corner of the foundation of an edifice; hence,
that which is fundamental importance or indispensable. "A prince who
regarded uniformity of faith as the corner stone of his government."
Prescott.
 -- Corner tooth, one of the four teeth which come in a horse's mouth
at the age of four years and a half, one on each side of the upper
and of the lower jaw, between the middle teeth and the tushes.

CORNER
Cor"ner, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cornered (-nrd);p. pr. & vb. n.
Cornering.]

1. To drive into a corner.

2. To drive into a position of great difficaulty or hopeless
embarrassment; as, to corner a person in argument.

3. To get command of (a stock, commodity, etc.), so as to be able to
put one's own price on it; as, to corner the shares of a railroad
stock; to corner petroleum.

CORNERCAP
Cor"ner*cap` (-kp`), n.

Defn: The chief ornament. [Obs.]
Thou makest the triumviry the cornercap of society. Shak.

CORNERED
Cor"nered (-nrd), p. a.

Defn: 1 Having corners or angles.

2. In a possition of great difficulty; brought to bay.

CORNERWISE
Cor"ner*wise` (-wz`), adv.

Defn: With the corner in front; diagonally; not square.

CORNET
Cor"net (kr"nt), n. Etym: [F. cornet, m. (for senses 1 & 2),
cornette, f. & m. (for senses 3 & 4), dim. of corne horn, L. cornu.
See Horn.]

1. (Mus.)
(a) An obsolete rude reed instrument (Ger. Zinken), of the oboe
family. (b) A brass instrument, with cupped mouthpiece, and furnished
with valves or pistons, now used in bands, and, in place of the
trumpet, in orchestras. See Cornet-à-piston. (c) A certain organ stop
or register.

2. A cap of paper twisted at the end, used by retailers to inclose
small wares. Cotgrave.

3. (Mil.)
(a) A troop of cavalry; -- so called from its being accompanied by a
cornet player. [Obs.] "A body of five cornets of horse." Clarendon.
(b) The standard of such a troop. [Obs.]
(c) The lowest grade of commissioned officer in a British cavalry
troop, who carried the standard. The office was abolished in 1871.

4. A headdress:
(a) A square cap anciently worn as a mark of certain professions.
(b) A part of a woman's headdress, in the 16th century.

5. Etym: [Cf. Coronet.] (Far.)

Defn: See Coronet, 2.

CORNET-A-PISTON
Cor"net-à-pis`ton (kr"nt--ps"tn; F. kr`n`ps`tn"), n.; pl. Cornets-à-
piston. Etym: [F.] (Mus.)

Defn: A brass wind instrument, like the trumpet, furnished with
valves moved by small pistons or sliding rods; a cornopean; a cornet.

CORNETCY
Cor"net*cy (kr"nt-s), n.

Defn: The commission or rank of a cornet.

CORNETER
Cor"net*er (kr"nt-r), n.

Defn: One who blows a cornet.

CORNEULE
Cor"neule (kr"nl), n. Etym: [F., dim. of corn the cornea.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the corneas of a compound eye in the invertebrates.
Carpenter.

CORNFIELD
Corn"field` (krn"fld`), n.

Defn: A field where corn is or has been growing; -- in England, a
field of wheat, rye, barley, or oats; in America, a field of Indian
corn.

CORNFLOOR
Corn"floor` (-flr`), n.

Defn: A thrashing floor. Hos. ix. 1.

CORNFLOWER
Corn"flow`er (-flou`r), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A conspicuous wild flower (Centaurea Cyanus), growing in
grainfields.

CORNIC
Cor"nic (kr"nk), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, the dogwood (Cornus
florida).

CORNICE
Cor"nice (kr"ns), n. Etym: [F. corniche, It. cornice, LL. coronix,
cornix, fr. L. coronis a curved line, a flourish with the pen at the
end of a book or chapter, Gr. corona crown. sEE Crown, and cf.
Coronis.] (Arch.)

Defn: Any horizontal, molded or otherwise decorated projection which
crowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed; as, the cornice
of an order, pedestal, door, window, or house. Gwilt. Cornice ring,
the ring on a cannon next behind the muzzle ring.

CORNICED
Cor"niced (kr"nst), a.

Defn: Having a cornice.

CORNICLE
Cor"ni*cle (kr"n-k'l), n. Etym: [L. corniculum, dim. of cornu horn.]

Defn: A little horn. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

CORNICULAR
Cor*nic"u*lar (-lr), n. Etym: [L. cornicularius.]

Defn: A secretary or clerk. [Obs.] Chaucer.

CORNICULATE
Cor/nic"u*late (kr-nk"-lt), a. Etym: [L. corniculatus.]

1. Horned; having horns. Dr. H. More.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having processes resembling small horns.

CORNICULUM
Cor*nic"u*lum (kr-nk"-lm), n.; pl. Cornicula (-l. Etym: [L.
corniculum little horn.] (Anat.)

Defn: A small hornlike part or process.

CORNIFEROUS
Cor*nif"er*ous (kr-nf"r-s), a. Etym: [L. cornu horn + -ferous.]
(Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lowest period of the Devonian age.(See
the Diagram, under Geology.) The Corniferous period has been so
called from the numerous seams of hornstone which characterize the
later part of the period, as developed in the State of New York.

CORNIFIC
Cor*nif"ic (kr-nf"k), a. Etym: [L. cornu horn + facere to make.]

Defn: Producing horns; forming horn.

CORNIFICATION
Cor`ni*fi*ca"tion (kr`n-f-k"shn), n.

Defn: Conversion into, or formation of, horn; a becoming like horn.

CORNIFIED
Cor"ni*fied (kr"n-fd), a. Etym: [L. cornu horn + -fy.] (Anat.)

Defn: Converted into horn; horny.

CORNIFORM
Cor"ni*form (-frm), a. Etym: [L. cornu horn + -form.]

Defn: Having the shape of a horn; horn-shaped.

CORNIGEROUS
Cor*nig"er*ous (kr-nj"r-s), a. Etym: [L. corniger; cornu horn +
gerere to bear.]

Defn: Horned; having horns; as, cornigerous animals. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

CORNIN
Cor"nin (kr"nn), n. (Chem.)
(a) A bitter principle obtained from dogwood (Cornus florida), as a
white crystalline substance; -- called also cornic acid.
(b) An extract from dogwood used as a febrifuge.

CORNIPLUME
Cor"ni*plume (kr"n-plm), n. Etym: [L. cornu horn + pluma feather.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A hornlike tuft of feathers on the head of some birds.

CORNISH
Cor"nish (kr"nsh), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Cornwall, in England. Cornish chough. See
Chough.
 -- Cornish engine, a single-acting pumping engine, used in mines, in
Cornwall and elsewhere, and for water works. A heavy pump rod or
plunger, raised by the steam, forces up the water by its weight, in
descending.

CORNISH
Cor"nish, n.

Defn: The dialect, or the people, of Cornwall.

CORNIST
Cor"nist, n.

Defn: A performer on the cornet or horn.

CORNLOFT
Corn"loft` (krn"lft`), n.

Defn: A loft for corn; a granary.

CORNMUSE
Corn"muse (-mz), n.

Defn: A cornemuse.

CORNO DI BASSETTO
Cor"no di bas*set"to (kr"n d bs-st"t or bs-st"t); pl. Corni (-n di
basseto. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A tenor clarinet; -- called also basset horn, and sometimes
confounded with the English horn, which is a tenor oboe.

CORNO INGLESE
Cor"no In*gle"se (n-gl"z); pl. Corni Inglesi (-z. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A reed instrument, related to the oboe, but deeper in pitch;
the English horn.

CORNOPEAN
Cor*no"pe*an (kr-n"p-an), n. (Mus.)

Defn: An obsolete name for the cornet-à-piston.

CORNSHELLER
Corn"shell`er (krn"shl`r), n.

Defn: A machine that separates the kernels of corn from the cob.

CORNSHUCK
Corn"shuck` (-shk`), n.

Defn: The husk covering an ear of Indian corn. [Colloq. U.S.]

CORNSTALK
Corn"stalk` (-stk`), n.

Defn: A stalk of Indian corn.

CORNSTARCH
Corn"starch` (-strch`), n.

Defn: Starch made from Indian corn, esp. a fine white flour used for
puddings, etc.

CORNU
Cor"nu (kr"n), n; pl. Cornua (-n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A horn, or anything shaped like or resembling a horn.

CORNU AMMONIS
Cor"nu Am*mo"nis (m-m"ns); pl. Cornua Ammonis. Etym: [L., horn of
Ammon. See Ammonite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil shell, curved like a ram's horn; an obsolete name for
an ammonite.

CORNUCOPIA
Cor`nu*co"pi*a (kr`n-k"p-), n.; pl. Cornucopias (-. Etym: [L. cornu
copiae horn of plenty. See Horn, and Copious.]

1. The horn of plenty, from which fruits and flowers are represented
as issuing. It is an emblem of abundance.

2. pl. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of grasses bearing spikes of flowers resembling the
cornucopia in form.

Note: Some writers maintain that this word should be written, in the
singular, cornu copiæ, and in the plural, cornua copiæ.

CORNUTE; CORNUTED
Cor"nute (kr"nt or kr-nt"), Cor*nut"ed (kr-n"td), a. Etym: [L.
cornutus horned, from cornu horn.]

1. Bearing horns; horned; horn-shaped.

2. Cuckolded. [R.] "My being cornuted." LEstrange.

CORNUTE
Cor*nute" (kr-nt"), v. t.

Defn: To bestow horns upon; to make a cuckold of; to cuckold. [Obs.]
Burton.

CORNUTO
Cor*nu"to (kr-n"t), n. Etym: [It., fr. L. cornutus horned.]

Defn: A man that wears the horns; a cuckold. [R.] Shak.

CORNUTOR
Cor*nu"tor (-tr), n.

Defn: A cuckold maker. [R.] Jordan.

CORNY
Cor"ny (kr"n), a. Etym: [L. cornu horn.]

Defn: Strong, stiff, or hard, like a horn; resembling horn.
Up stood the cornu reed. Milton.

CORNY
Corn"y, a.

1. Producing corn or grain; furnished with grains of corn. [R.] "The
corny ear." Prior.

2. Containing corn; tasting well of malt. [R.]
A draught of moist and corny ale. Chaucer.

3. Tipsy. [Vulgar, Eng.] Forby.

COROCORE
Cor"o*core (kr"-kr), n.

Defn: A kind of boat of various forms, used in the Indian
Archipelago.

CORODY
Cor"o*dy (kr"-d), n. Etym: [LL. corrodium, corredium, conredium,
furniture, provision: cf. OF. conroi. See Curry.] (Old Law)

Defn: An allowance of meat, drink, or clothing due from an abbey or
other religious house for the sustenance of such of the king's
servants as he may designate to receive it. [Written also corrody.]

COROL
Cor"ol (kr"l), n. (Bot.)

Defn: A corolla.

COROLLA
Co*rol"la (k-rl"l), n. Etym: [L. corolla a little crown or garland,
dim. of corona. See Crown.] (Bot.)

Defn: The inner envelope of a flower; the part which surrounds the
organs of fructification, consisting of one or more leaves, called
petals. It is usually distinguished from the calyx by the fineness of
its texture and the gayness of its colors. See the Note under
Blossom.

COROLLACEOUS
Cor`ol*la"ceous (kr`l-l"shs), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a corolla; having the form or
texture of a corolla.

COROLLARY
Cor"ol*la*ry (kr"l-l-r; 277), n.; pl. Corollaries (-r. Etym: [L.
corollarium gift, corollary, fr. corolla. See Corolla.]

1. That which is given beyond what is actually due, as a garland of
flowers in addition to wages; surplus; something added or
superfluous. [Obs.]
Now come, my Ariel; bring a corollary, Rather than want a spirit.
Shak.

2. Something which follows from the demonstration of a proposition;
an additional inference or deduction from a demonstrated proposition;
a consequence.

COROLLATE; COROLLATED
Cor"ol*late (kr"l-lt), Cor"ol*la`ted (-l`td), a.

Defn: Having a corolla or corollas; like a corolla.

COROLLET
Cor"ol*let (kr"l-lt), n. Etym: [Dim. fr. corolla.] (Bot.)

Defn: A floret in an aggregate flower. [Obs.] Martyn.

COROLLIFLORAL; COROLLIFLOROUS
Co*rol`li*flo"ral (k-rl`l-fl"ral), Co*rol`li*flo"rous (-fl"rs), a.
Etym: [Corolla + L. flos, floris, flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the stamens borne on the petals, and the latter free
from the calyx. Compare Calycifloral and Thalamifloral.

COROLLINE
Cor"ol*line (-ln), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a corolla.

COROMANDEL
Cor`o*man"del (kr`-mn"del), n. (Geol.)

Defn: The west coast, or a portion of the west coast, of the Bay of
Bengal. Coromandel gooseberry. See Carambola.
 -- Coromandel wood, Calamander wood.

CORONA
Co*ro"na (k-r"n), n.; pl. L. Coronæ (-nCoronas (-n. Etym: [L. corona
crown. See Crown.]

1. A crown or garland bestowed among the Romans as a reward for
distinguished services.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: The projecting part of a Classic cornice, the under side of
which is cut with a recess or channel so as to form a drip. See
Illust. of Column.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The upper surface of some part, as of a tooth or the skull; a
crown.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The shelly skeleton of a sea urchin.

5. (Astrol.)

Defn: A peculiar luminous apearance, or aureola, which surrounds the
sun, and which is seen only when the sun is totally eclipsed by the
moon.

6. (Bot.)
(a) An inner appendage to a petal or a corolla, often forming a
special cup, as in the daffodil and jonquil.
(b) Any crownlike appendage at the top of an organ.

7. (Meteorol.)
(a) A circle, usually colored, seen in peculiar states of the
atmosphere around and close to a luminous body, as the sun or moon.
(b) A peculiar phase of the aurora borealis, formed by the
concentration or convergence of luminous beams around the point in
the heavens indicated by the direction of the dipping needle.

8. A crown or circlet suspended from the roof or vaulting of
churches, to hold tapers lighted on solemn occasions. It is sometimes
formed of double or triple circlets, arranged pyramidically. Called
also corona lucis. Fairholt.

9. (Mus.)

Defn: A character [] called the pause or hold.

CORONACH
Cor"o*nach (kr"-nk), n.

Defn: See Coranach.

CORONAL
Cor"o*nal (kr"-nal or, esp. in science, k-r"nal; 277), a. Etym: [L.
coronalis: cf. F. coronal.]

1. Of or pertaining to a corona (in any of the senses).
The coronal light during the eclipse is faint. Abney.

2. Of or pertaining to a king's crown, or coronation.
The law and his coronal oath require his undeniable assent to what
laws the Parliament agree upon. Milton.

3. Of or pertaining to the top of the head or skull.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the shell of a sea urchin. Coronal suture
(Anat.), a suture extending across the skull between the parietal and
frontal bones; the frontoparietal suture.

CORONAL
Cor"o*nal, n.

1. A crown; wreath; garland. Spenser.

2. The frontal bone, over which the ancients wore their coronæ or
garlands. Hooper.

CORONAMEN
Cor`o*na"men (kr`-n"mn), n. Etym: [L., a crowning.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The upper margin of a hoof; a coronet.

CORONARY
Cor"o*na*ry (kr"-n-r), a. Etym: [L. coronarius: cf. F. coronaire.]

1. Of or pertaining to a crown; ferming, or adapted to form, a crown
or garland. "Coronary thorns." Bp. Pearson.
The catalogue of coronary plants is not large in Theophrastus. Sir T.
Browne.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling, or situated like, a crown or circlet; as, the
coronary arteries and veins of the heart.

CORONARY
Cor"o*na*ry, n.

Defn: A small bone in the foot of a horse.

CORONARY BONE
Cor"o*na*ry bone.

Defn: The small pastern bone of the horse and allied animals.

CORONARY CUSHION
Coronary cushion.

Defn: A cushionlike band of vascular tissue at the upper border of
the wall of the hoof of the horse and allied animals. It takes an
important part in the secretion of the horny walls.

CORONATE; CORONATED
Cor"o*nate (kr"-nt), Cor"o*na`ted (-n`ted), a. Etym: [L. coronatus,
p. p. of coronare to crown, fr. corona. See Crown.]

1. Having or wearing a crown.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) Having the coronal feathers lengthened or otherwise
distinguished; -- said of birds.
(b) Girt about the spire with a row of tubercles or spines; -- said
of spiral shells.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Having a crest or a crownlike appendage.

CORONATION
Cor`o*na"tion (kr`-n"shn), n. Etym: [See Coronate.]

1. The act or solemnity of crowning a sovereign; the act of investing
a prince with the insignia of royalty, on his succeeding to the
sovereignty.

2. The pomp or assembly at a coronation. Pope.

CORONEL
Coro"nel (kr"nel), n. Etym: [See Colonel.]

Defn: A colonel. [Obs.] Spenser.

CORONEL
Cor"o*nel (kr"-nl or kr"nl), n. Etym: [Cf. Cronel, Crown.] (Anc.
Armor)

Defn: The iron head of a tilting spear, divided into two, three, or
four blunt points. [Written also cronel.] Grose.

CORONER
Cor"o*ner (kr"-nr), n. Etym: [From OE. coronen to crown, OF. coroner,
fr. L. coronare, fr. corona crown. Formed as a translation of LL.
coronator coroner, fr. L. corona crown, the coroner having been
originally a prosecuting officer of the crown. See Crown.]

Defn: An officer of the peace whose principal duty is to inquire,
with the help of a jury, into the cause of any violent, sudden or
mysterious death, or death in prison, usually on sight of the body
and at the place where the death occurred. [In England formerly also
written and pronounced crowner.]

Note: In some of the United States the office of coroner is
abolished, that of medical examiner taking its place. Coroner's
inquest. See under Inquest.

CORONET
Cor"o*net (kr"-nt), n. Etym: [Dim. of OE. corone crown; cf. OF.
coronete. See Crown, and cf. Crownet, Cronet.]

1. An ornamental or honorary headdress, having the shape and
character of a crown; particularly, a crown worn as the mark of high
rank lower than sovereignty. The word is used by Shakespeare to
denote also a kingly crown.
Without a star, a coronet, or garter. Goldsmith.

Note: The coronet of the Prince of Wales consist of a circlet of gold
with four crosses pattée around the edge between as many fleurs-de-
lis. The center crosses are connected by an arch which is surmounted
by a globe or cross. The coronet of a British duke is adorned with
strawberry leaves; that of a marquis has leaves with pearls
interposed; that of an earl raises the pearls above the leaves; that
of a viscount is surrounded with pearls only; that of a baron has
only four pearls.

2. (Far.)

Defn: The upper part of a horse's hoof, where the horn terminates in
skin. James White.

3. (Anc. Armor)

Defn: The iron head of a tilting spear; a coronel. Crose.

CORONETED
Cor"o*net*ed (-nt-d), a.

Defn: Wearing, or entitled to wear, a coronet; of noble birth or
rank.

CORONIFORM
Co*ron"i*form (k-rn"-frm or k-r"n-), a. Etym: [L. corona crown + -
form.]

Defn: Having the form of a crown or coronet; resembling a crown.

CORONILLA
Cor`o*nil"la (kr`-nl"l), n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. corona crown: cf. F.
coronille.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants related to the clover, having their flowers
arranged in little heads or tufts resembling coronets.

CORONIS
Co*ro"nis (k-r"ns), n. Etym: [Gr. Cornice.]

1. In Greek grammar, a sign ['] sometimes placed over a contracted
syllable. W. W. Goodwin.

2. The curved line or flourish at the end of a book or chapter;
hence, the end. [R.] Bp. Hacket.

CORONIUM
Co*ro"ni*um, n. [NL. See Corona.] (Chem. & Astron.)

Defn: The principal gaseous substance forming the solar corona,
characterized by a green line in the coronal spectrum.

CORONOID
Cor"o*noid (kr"-noid), a. Etym: [Gr. -oid: cf. F. corono.] (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling the beak of a crow; as, the coronoid process of the
jaw, or of the ulna.

CORONULE
Cor"o*nule (kr"-nl), n. Etym: [L. coronula, dim. of corona crown.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A coronet or little crown of a seed; the downy tuft on seeds.
See Pappus. Martyn.

COROUN
Co*roun" (k-roun"), v. & n.

Defn: Crown. [Obs.] Chaucer.

COROZO; COROSSO
Co*ro"zo Co*ros"so (k-r"th or -s), n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. cerozo a kind of
palm tree.]

Defn: The name in Central America for the seed of a true palm; also,
a commercial name for the true ivory nut. See Ivory nut.

CORPORACE
Cor"po*race (kr"p-rs), n.

Defn: See Corporas.

CORPORAL
Cor"po*ral (kr"p-ral), n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. F. caporal, It.
caporale, fr. capo head, chief, L. caput. See Chief, and cf.
Caporal.] (Mil.)

Defn: A noncommissioned officer, next below a sergeant. In the United
States army he is the lowest noncomissioned officer in a company of
infantry. He places and relieves sentinels. Corporal's guard, a
detachment such as would be in charge of a corporal for guard duty,
etc.; hence, derisively, a very small number of persons.
 -- Lance corporal, an assistant corporal on private's pay. Farrow.
 -- Ship's corporal (Naut.), a petty officer who assists the master
at arms in his various duties.

CORPORAL
Cor"po*ral, a. Etym: [L. corporalis, fr. corpus body. See Corpse.]

1. Belonging or relating to the body; bodily. "Past corporal toil."
Shak.
Pillories and other corporal infections. Milton.
Corporal punishment (law), punishment applied to the body of the
offender, including the death penalty, whipping, and imprisonment.

2. Having a body or substance; not spiritual; material. In this sense
now usually written corporeal. Milton.
A corporal heaven . . . .where the stare are. Latimer.
What seemed corporal melted As breath into the wind. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Corporal, Bodily, Corporeal. Bodily is opposed to mental; as,
bodily affections. Corporeal refers to the whole physical structure
or nature, of the body; as, corporeal substance or frame. Corporal,
as now used, refers more to punishment or some infliction; as,
corporal punishment. To speak of corporeal punishment is an error.
Bodily austerities; the corporeal mold.

CORPORAL; CORPORALE
Cor"po*ral (kr"p-ral), Cor`po*ra"le (-r"l), n. Etym: [LL. corporale:
cf.F. corporal. See Corporal,a.]

Defn: A fine linen cloth, on which the sacred elements are
consecrated in the eucharist, or with which they are covered; a
communion cloth. Corporal oath, a solemn oath; -- so called from the
fact that it was the ancient usage for the party taking it to touch
the corporal, or cloth that covered the consecrated elements.

CORPORALITY
Cor`po*ral"i*ty (kr`p-rl"l-t), n.: pl. Corporalities (-t. Etym: [L.
corporalitas: cf. F.corporalit.]

1. The state of being or having a body; bodily existence;
corporeality; -- opposed to spirituality. Dr. H. More.

2. A confraternity; a guild. [Obs.] Milton.

CORPORALLY
Cor"po*ral*ly (kr"p-ral-ly), adv.

Defn: In or with the body; bodily; as, to be corporally present.
Sharp.

CORPORALSHIP
Cor"po*ral*ship, n. (Mil.)

Defn: A corporal's office.

CORPORAS
Cor"po*ras (kr"p-rs), n. Etym: [Prop. pl. of corporal.]

Defn: The corporal, or communion cloth. [Obs.] Fuller.

CORPORATE
Cor"po*rate (kr"p-rt), a. Etym: [L. corporatus, p. p. of corporare to
shape into a body, fr. corpus body. See Corpse.]

1. Formed into a body by legal enactment; united in an association,
and endowed by law with the rights and liabilities of an individual;
incorporated; as, a corporate town.

2. Belonging to a corporation or incorporated body. "Corporate
property." Hallam.

3. United; general; collectively one.
They answer in a joint and corporate voice. Shak.
Corporate member, an actual or voting member of a corporation, as
distinguished from an associate or an honorary member; as, a
corporate member of the American Board.

CORPORATE
Cor"po*rate (-rt), v. t.

Defn: To incorporate. [Obs.] Stow.

CORPORATE
Cor"po*rate, v. i.

Defn: To become incorporated. [Obs.]

CORPORATELY
Cor"po*rate*ly (-rt-l), adv.

1. In a corporate capacity; acting as a coprporate body.

2. In, or as regarda, the body. Fabyan.

CORPORATION
Cor`po*ra"tion (kr`p-r"shn), n. Etym: [L. corporatio incarnation: cf.
F. corporation corporation.]

Defn: A body politic or corporate, formed and authorized by law to
act as a single person, and endowed by law with the capacity of
succession; a society having the capacity of transacting business as
an individual.

Note: Corporations are aggregate or sole. Corporations aggregate
consist of two or more persons united in a society, which is
preserved by a succession of members, either forever or till the
corporation is dissolved by the power that formed it, by the death of
all its members, by surrender of its charter or franchises, or by
forfeiture. Such corporations are the mayor and aldermen of cities,
the head and fellows of a college, the dean and chapter of a
cathedral church, the stockholders of a bank or insurance company,
etc. A corporation sole consists of a single person, who is made a
body corporate and politic, in order to give him some legal
capacities, and especially that of succession, which as a natural
person he can not have. Kings, bishops, deans, parsons, and vicars,
are in England sole corporations. A fee will not pass to a
corporation sole without the word "successors" in the grant. There
are instances in the United States of a minister of a parish seized
of parsonage lands in the right of his parish, being a corporation
sole, as in Massachusetts. Corporations are sometimes classified as
public and private; public being convertible with municipal, and
private corporations being all corporations not municipal. Close
corporation. See under Close.

CORPORATOR
Cor"po*ra`tor (kr"p-r`tr), n.

Defn: A member of a corporation, esp. one of the original members.

CORPORATURE
Cor"po*ra*ture (kr"p-r-tr), n.

Defn: The state of being embodied; bodily existence. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

CORPOREAL
Cor*po"re*al (kr-p"r-al), a. Etym: [L. corporeus, fr. corpus body.]

Defn: Having a body; consisting of, or pertaining to, a material body
or substance; material; -- opposed to spiritual or immaterial.
His omnipotence That to corporeal substance could add Speed almost
spiritual. Milton.
Corporeal property, such as may be seen and handled (as opposed to
incorporeal, which can not be seen or handled, and exists only in
contemplation). Mozley & W.

Syn.
 -- Corporal; bodily. See Corporal.

CORPOREALISM
Cor*po"re*al*ism (-z'm), n.

Defn: Materialism. Cudworth.

CORPOREALIST
Cor*po"re*al*ist (kr-p"r-al-st), n.

Defn: One who denies the reality of spiritual existences; a
materialist.
Some corporealists pretended . . . to make a world without a God. Bp.
Berkeley.

CORPOREALITY
Cor*po`re*al"i*ty (-l"-t), n.: pl. Corporealities (-t.

Defn: The state of being corporeal; corporeal existence.

CORPOREALLY
Cor*po"re*al*ly (kr-p"r-al-l), adv.

Defn: In the body; in a bodily form or manner.

CORPOREALNESS
Cor*po"re*al*ness (-ns), n.

Defn: Corporeality; corporeity.

CORPOREITY
Cor`po*re"i*ty (kr`p-r"-t), n. Etym: [LL. corporeitas: cf. F.
corpor.]

Defn: The state of having a body; the state of being corporeal;
materiality.
The one attributed corporeity to God. Bp. Stillingfleet.
Those who deny light to be matter, do not therefore deny its
corporeity. Coleridge.

CORPORIFY
Cor*por"i*fy (kr-pr"-f), v. t. Etym: [L. corpus body + -fy: cf. F.
corporifier.]

Defn: To embody; to form into a body. [Obs.] Boyle.

CORPOSANT
Cor"po*sant (kr"p-znt), n. Etym: [It. corpo santo holy body.]

Defn: St. Elmo's fire. See under Saint.

CORPS
Corps (kr, pl. krz), n. sing. & pl. Etym: [F., fr. L. corpus body.
See Corpse.]

1. The human body, whether living or dead. [Obs.] See Corpse, 1.
By what craft in my corps, it cometh [commences] and where. Piers
Plowman.

2. A body of men; esp., an organized division of the military
establishment; as, the marine corps; the corps of topographical
engineers; specifically, an army corps.
A corps operating with an army should consist of three divisions of
the line, a brigade of artillery, and a regiment of cavalry. Gen.
Upton (U. S. Tactics. )

3. A body or code of laws. [Obs.]
The whole corps of the law. Bacon.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: The land with which a prebend or other ecclesiastical office is
endowed. [Obs.]
The prebendaries over and above their reserved rents have a corps.
Bacon.
Army corps, or (French) Corps d'armée (k, a body containing two or
more divisions of a large army, organized as a complete army in
itself.
 -- Corps de logis (ke l Etym: [F., body of the house], the principal
mass of a building, considered apart from its wings.
 -- Corps diplomatique (k Etym: [F., diplomatic body], the body of
ministers or envoys accredited to a government.

CORPSE
Corpse (krps), n. Etym: [OF. cors (sometimes written corps), F.
corps, L. corpus; akin to AS. hrif womb. See Midriff, and cf. Corse,
Corselet, Corps, Cuerpo.]

1. A human body in general, whether living or dead; -- sometimes
contemptuosly. [Obs.]

Note: Formerly written (after the French form) corps. See Corps, n.,
1.

2. The dead body of a human being; -- used also Fig.
He touched the dead corpse of Public Credit, and it sprung upon its
feet. D. Webster.
Corpse candle. (a) A thick candle formerly used at a lich wake, or
the customary watching with a corpse on the night before its
interment. (b) A luminous appearance, resembling the flame of a
candle, sometimes seen in churchyards and other damp places,
superstitiously regarded as portending death.
 -- Corpse gate, the gate of a burial place through which the dead
are carried, often having a covered porch; -- called also lich gate.

CORPULENCE; CORPULENCY
Cor"pu*lence (kr"p-lens), Cor"pu*len*cy (kr"p-len-s), n. Etym: [L.
corpulentia: cf. F. corpulence.]

1. Excessive fatness; fleshiness; obesity.

2. Thickness; density; compactness. [Obs.]
The heaviness and corpulency of water requiring a great force to
divide it. Ray.

CORPULENT
Cor"pu*lent (-p-lent), a. Etym: [L. corpulentus, fr. corpus: cf. F.
corpulent. See Corpse.]

1. Very fat; obese.

2. Solid; gross; opaque. [Obs.] Holland.

Syn.
 -- Stout; fleshy; bulky; obese. See Stout.

CORPULENTLY
Cor"pu*lent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a corpulent manner.

CORPUS
Cor"pus (-ps), n.; pl. Corpora (-p. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing.
Corpus callosum (k; pl. Corpora callosa (-s Etym: [NL., callous body]
(Anat.), the great band of commissural fibers uniting the cerebral
hemispheries. See Brain.
 -- Corpus Christi (kr Etym: [L., body of Christ] (R. C. Ch.), a
festival in honor of the eucharist, observed on the Thursday after
Trinity Sunday.
 -- Corpus Christi cloth. Same as Pyx cloth, under Pyx.
 -- Corpus delicti (d Etym: [L., the body of the crime] (Law), the
substantial and fundamental fact of the comission of a crime; the
proofs essential to establish a crime.
 -- Corpus luteum (l; pl. Corpora lutea (-. Etym: [NL., luteous body]
(Anat.), the reddish yellow mass which fills a ruptured Grafian
follicle in the mammalian ovary.
 -- Corpus striatum (str; pl. Corpora striata (-t. Etym: [NL.,
striate body] (Anat.), a ridge in the wall of each lateral ventricle
of the brain.

CORPUSCLE
Cor"pus*cle (-ps-s'l), n. Etym: [L. corpusculum, dim. of corpus.]

1. A minute particle; an atom; a molecule.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A protoplasmic animal cell; esp., such as float free, like
blood, lymph, and pus corpuscles; or such as are imbedded in an
intercellular matrix, like connective tissue and cartilage
corpuscles. See Blood.
Virchow showed that the corpuscles of bone are homologous with those
of connective tissue. Quain's Anat.
Red blood corpuscles (Physiol.), in man, yellowish, biconcave,
circular discs varying from 1/3500 to 1/3200 of an inch in diameter
and about 1/12400 of an inch thick. They are composed of a colorless
stroma filled in with semifluid hæmoglobin and other matters. In most
mammals the red corpuscles are circular, but in the camels, birds,
reptiles, and the lower vertebrates generally, they are oval, and
sometimes more or less spherical in form. In Amphioxus, and most
invertebrates, the blood corpuscles are all white or colorless.
 -- White blood corpuscles (Physiol.), rounded, slightly flattened,
nucleated cells, mainly protoplasmic in composition, and possessed of
contractile power. In man, the average size is about 1/2500 of an
inch, and they are present in blood in much smaller numbers than the
red corpuscles.

CORPUSCULAR
Cor*pus"cu*lar (kr-ps"k-lr), a. Etym: [Cf. F. corpusculaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or composed of, corpuscles, or small particles.
Corpuscular philosophy, that which attempts to account for the
phenomena of nature, by the motion, figure, rest, position, etc., of
the minute particles of matter.
 -- Corpuscular theory (Opt.), the theory enunciated by Sir Isaac
Newton, that light consists in the emission and rapid progression of
minute particles or corpuscles. The theory is now generally rejected,
and supplanted by the undulatory theory.

CORPUSCULARIAN
Cor*pus`cu*la"ri*an (-l"r-an), a.

Defn: Corpuscular. [Obs.]

CORPUSCULARIAN
Cor*pus`cu*la"ri*an, n.

Defn: An adherent of the corpuscular philosophy. Bentley.

CORPUSCULE
Cor*pus"cule (kr-ps"kl), n.

Defn: A corpuscle. [Obs.]

CORPUSCULOUS
Cor*pus"cu*lous (-k-ls), a.

Defn: Corpuscular. Tyndall.

CORRADE
Cor*rade" (kr-rd"), v. t. Etym: [L. corradere, -rasum; cor- + radere
to rub.]

1. To gnaw into; to wear away; to fret; to consume. [Obs.] Dr. R.
Clerke.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: To erode, as the bed of a stream. See Corrosion.

CORRADIAL
Cor*ra"di*al (kr-r"d-al), a.

Defn: Radiating to or from the same point. [R.] Coleridge.

CORRADIATE
Cor*ra"di*ate (kr-r"d-t), v. t.

Defn: To converge to one point or focus, as light or rays.

CORRADIATION
Cor*ra`di*a"tion (kr-r`d-"shn), n.

Defn: A conjunction or concentration of rays in one point. Bacom

CORRAL
Cor*ral" (kr-rl"; Sp. kr-rl"), n. Etym: [Sp., a yard, a yard for
cattle, fr. corro a circle or ring, fr. L. currere to run. Cf.
Kraal.]

Defn: A pen for animals; esp., an inclosure made with wagons, by
emigrants in the vicinity of hostile Indians, as a place of security
for horses, cattle, etc.

CORRAL
Cor*ral", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corraled (-rld" or -rld"); p. pr. & vb.
n. Corralling.]

Defn: To surround and inclose; to coop up; to put into an inclosed
space; -- primarily used with reference to securing horses and cattle
in an inclosure of wagons while traversing the plains, but in the
Southwestern United States now colloquially applied to the capturing,
securing, or penning of anything. Bartlett.

CORRASION
Cor*ra"sion (kr-r"zhn), n. Etym: [See Corrade.] (Geol.)

Defn: The erosion of the bed of a stream by running water,
principally by attrition of the detritus carried along by the stream,
but also by the solvent action of the water.

CORRASIVE
Cor*ra"sive (-sv), a.

Defn: Corrosive. [Obs.]
Corrasive sores which eat into the flesh. Holland.

CORRECT
Cor*rect" (kr-rkt"), a. Etym: [L. correctus, p. p. of corrigere to
make straight, to correct; cor- + regere to lead straight: cf. F.
correct. See Regular, Right, and cf. Escort.]

Defn: Set right, or made straight; hence, conformable to truth,
rectitude, or propriety, or to a just standard; nnot faulty or
imperfect; free from error; as, correct behavior; correct views.
Always use the most correct editions. Felton.

Syn.
 -- Accurate; right, exact; precise; regular; faultless. See
Accurate.

CORRECT
Cor*rect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corrected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Correcting.]

1. To make right; to bring to the standard of truth, justice, or
propriety; to rectify; as, to correct manners or principles.
This is a defect in the first make of same men's minds which can
scarce ever be corrected afterwards. T. Burnet.

2. To remove or retrench the faults or errors of; to amend; to set
right; as, to correct the proof (that is, to mark upon the margin the
changes to be made, or to make in the type the changes so marked).

3. To bring back, or attempt to bring back, to propriety in morals;
to reprove or punish for faults or deviations from moral rectitude;
to chastise; to discipline; as, a child should be corrected for
lying.
My accuser is my 'prentice; and when I did correct him for his fault
the other day, he did vow upon his knees he would be even with me.
Shak.

4. To counteract the qualities of one thing by those of another; --
said of whatever is wrong or injurious; as, to correct the acidity of
the stomach by alkaline preparations.

Syn.
 -- To amend; rectify; emend; reform; improve; chastise; punish;
discipline; chasten. See Amend.

CORRECTIBLE; CORRECTABLE
Cor*rect"i*ble (-rk"t-b'l), Cor*rect"a*ble (-rk"t-b'l), a.

Defn: Capable of being corrected.

CORRECTIFY
Cor*rect"i*fy (kr-rk"t-f), v. t.

Defn: To correct. [Obs.]
When your worship's plassed to correctify a lady. Beau & Fl.

CORRECTION
Cor*rec"tion (kr-rk"shn), n. Etym: [L. correctio: cf. F. correction.]

1. The act of correcting, or making that right which was wrong;
change for the better; amendment; rectification, as of an erroneous
statement.
The due correction of swearing, rioting, neglect of God's word, and
other scandalouss vices. Strype.

2. The act of reproving or punishing, or that which is intended to
rectify or to cure faults; punishment; discipline; chastisement.
Correction and instruction must both work Ere this rude beast will
profit. Shak.

3. That which is substituted in the place of what is wrong; an
emendation; as, the corrections on a proof sheet should be set in the
margin.

4. Abatement of noxious qualities; the counteraction of what is
inconvenient or hurtful in its effects; as, the correction of acidity
in the stomach.

5. An allowance made for inaccuracy in an instrument; as, chronometer
correction; compass correction. Correction line (Surv.), a parallel
used as a new base line in laying out township in the government
lands of the United States. The adoption at certain intervals of a
correction line is necessitated by the convergence of of meridians,
and the statute requirement that the townships must be squares.
 -- House of correction, a house where disorderly persons are
confined; a bridewell.
 -- Under correction, subject to correction; admitting the
possibility of error.

CORRECTIONAL
Cor*rec"tion*al (kr-rk"shn-al), a. Etym: [Cf. F. correctionnel.]

Defn: Tending to, or intended for, correction; used for correction;
as, a correctional institution.

CORRECTIONER
Cor*rec"tion*er (-r), n.

Defn: One who is, or who has been, in the house of correction. [Obs.]
Shak.

CORRECTIVE
Cor*rect"ive (krr-rk"tv), a. Etym: [Cf. F. correctif.]

1. Having the power to correct; tending to rectify; as, corrective
penalties.
Mulberries are pectoral, corrective of billious alkali. Arbuthnot.

2. Qualifying; limiting. "The Psalmist interposeth . . . this
corrective particle." Holdsworth.

CORRECTIVE
Cor*rect"ive, n.

1. That which has the power of correcting, altering, or counteracting
what is wrong or injurious; as, alkalies are correctives of acids;
penalties are correctives of immoral conduct. Burke.

2. Limitation; restriction. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

CORRECTLY
Cor*rect"ly (kr-rkt"l), adv.

Defn: In a correct manner; exactly; acurately; without fault or
error.

CORRECTNESS
Cor*rect"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being correct; as, the correctness of
opinions or of manners; correctness of taste; correctness in writing
or speaking; the correctness of a text or copy.

Syn.
 -- Accuracy; exactness; precision; propriety.

CORRECTOR
Cor*rect"or (kr-rkt"r), n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who, or that which, corrects; as, a corrector of abuses; a
corrector of the press; an alkali is a corrector of acids.

CORRECTORY
Cor*rect"o*ry (--r), a.

Defn: Containing or making correction; corrective.

CORRECTRESS
Cor*rect"ress (-rs), n.

Defn: A woman who corrects.

CORREGIDOR
Cor*reg"i*dor (kr-rj"-dr; Sp. kr-r`h-dr"), n. Etym: [Sp., orig., a
corrector.]

Defn: The chief magistrate of a Spanish town.

CORREI
Cor"rei (kr"r), n. Etym: [Scot., perh. fr. Celt. cor a corner.]

Defn: A hollow in the side of a hill, where game usually lies. "Fleet
foot on the correi." Sir W. Scott.

CORRELATABLE
Cor`re*lat"a*ble (k3r`r-lt"-b'l), a.

Defn: Such as can be correlated; as, correlatable phenomena.

CORRELATE
Cor`re*late" (kr`r-lt" or kr"r-lt`), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Correlated;
p. pr. & vb. n. Correlating.] Etym: [Pref. cor- + relate.]

Defn: To have reciprocal or mutual relations; to be mutually related.
Doctrine and worship correlate as theory and practice. Tylor.

CORRELATE
Cor`re*late", v. t.

Defn: To put in relation with each other; to connect together by the
disclosure of a mutual relation; as, to correlate natural phenomens.
Darwin.

CORRELATE
Cor"re*late (kr"r-lt), n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stands in a reciprocal relation to
something else, as father to son; a correlative. South.

CORRELATION
Cor`re*la"tion (-l"shn), n. Etym: [LL. correlatio; L. cor- + relatio:
cf. F. corrélation. Cf. Correlation.]

Defn: Reciprocal relation; corresponding similarity or parallelism of
relation or law; capacity of being converted into, or of giving place
to, one another, under certain conditions; as, the correlation of
forces, or of zymotic diseases. Correlation of energy, the relation
to one another of different forms of energy; -- usually having some
reference to the principle of conservation of energy. See
Conservation of energy, under Conservation.
 -- Correlation of forces, the relation between the forces which
matter, endowed with various forms of energy, may exert.

CORRELATIVE
Cor*rel"a*tive (kr-rl"-tv), a. Etym: [Cf. F. corrélatif.]

Defn: Having or indicating a reciprocal relation.
Father and son, prince and subject, stranger and citizen, are
correlative terms. Hume.

CORRELATIVE
Cor*rel"a*tive, n.

1. One who, or that which, stands in a reciprocal relation, or is
correlated, to some other person or thing. Locke.
Spiritual things and spiritual men are correlatives. Spelman.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: The antecedent of a pronoun.

CORRELATIVELY
Cor*rel"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a correlative relation.

CORRELATIVENESS
Cor*rel"a*tive*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being correlative.

CORRELIGIONIST
Cor`re*li"gion*ist (kr`r-lj"n-st), n.

Defn: A co-religion

CORREPTION
Cor*rep"tion (kr-rp"shn), n. Etym: [L. correptio, fr. corripere to
seize.]

Defn: Chiding; reproof; reproach. [Obs.]
Angry, passionate correption being rather apt to provoke, than to
amend. Hammond.

CORRESPOND
Cor`re*spond" (kr`r-spnd"), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Corresponded; p. pr.
& vb. n. Corresponding.] Etym: [Pref. cor- + respond: cf. f.
correspondre.]

1. To be like something else in the dimensions and arrangement of its
parts; -- followed by with or to; as, concurring figures correspond
with each other throughout.
None of them [the forms of Sidney's sonnets] correspond to the
Shakespearean type. J. A. Symonds.

2. To be adapted; to be congruous; to suit; to agree; to fit; to
answer; -- followed by to.
Words being but empty sounds, any farther than they are signs of our
ideas, we can not but assent to them as they correspond to those
ideas we have, but no farther. Locke.

3. To have intercourse or communion; especially, to hold intercourse
or to communicate by sending and receiving letters; -- followed by
with.
After having been long in indirect communication with the exiled
family, he [Atterbury] began to correspond directly with the
Pretender. Macualay.

Syn.
 -- To agree; fit; answer; suit; write; address.

CORRESPONDENCE
Cor`re*spond"ence (-spnd"ens), n. Etym: [Cf. F. correspondance.]

1. Friendly intercourse; reciprocal exchange of civilities;
especially, intercourse between persons by means of letters.
Holding also good correspondence with the other great men in the
state. Bacon.
To facilitate correspondence between one part of London and another,
was not originally one of the objects of the post office. Macualay.

2. The letters which pass between correspondents.

3. Mutual adaptation, relation, or agreement, of one thing to
another; agreement; congruity; fitness; relation.

CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOL
Cor`res*pond"ence school.

Defn: A school that teaches by correspondence, the instruction being
based on printed instruction sheets and the recitation papers written
by the student in answer to the questions or requirements of these
sheets. In the broadest sense of the term correspondence school may
be used to include any educational institution or department for
instruction by correspondence, as in a university or other
educational bodies, but the term is commonly applied to various
educational institutions organized on a commercial basis, some of
which offer a large variety of courses in general and technical
subjects, conducted by specialists.

CORRESPONDENCY
Cor`re*spond"en*cy (k$r`r--spnd"en-s), n.; pl. Correspondencies (-s.

Defn: Same as Correspondence, 3.
The correspondencies of types and antitypes . . . may be very
reasonable confirmations. S. Clarke.

CORRESPONDENT
Cor`re*spond"ent (-ent), a. Etym: [Cf. F. correspondant.]

Defn: Suitable; adapted; fit; corresponding; congruous; conformable;
in accord or agreement; obedient; willing.
Action correspondent or repugnant unto the law. Hooker.
As fast the correspondent passions rise. Thomson.
I will be correspondent to command. Shak.

CORRESPONDENT
Cor`re*spond"ent, n.

1. One with whom intercourse is carried on by letter. Macualay.

2. One who communicates information, etc., by letter or telegram to a
newspaper or periodical.

3. (Com.)

Defn: One who carries on commercial intercourse by letter or telegram
with a person or firm at a distance.

CORRESPONDENTLY
Cor`re*spond"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a a corresponding manner; conformably; suitably.

CORRESPONDING
Cor`re*spond"ing, a.

1. Answering; conformable; agreeing; suiting; as, corresponding
numbers.

2. Carrying on intercourse by letters. Corresponding member of a
society, one residing at a distance, who has been invited to
correspond with the society, and aid in carrying out its designs
without taking part in its management.

CORRESPONDINGLY
Cor`re*spond"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a corresponding manner; conformably.

CORRESPONSIVE
Cor`re*spon"sive (-r-spn"sv), a.

Defn: Corresponding; conformable; adapted. Shak.
 -- Cor`re*spon"sive*ly, adv.

CORRIDOR
Cor"ri*dor (kr"r-dr or -dr), n. Etym: [F., fr. Itt. corridpore, or
Sp. corredor; prop., a runner, hence, a running or long line, a
gallery, fr. L. currere to run. See Course.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A gallery or passageway leading to several apartments of a
house.

2. (Fort.)

Defn: The covered way lying round the whole compass of the
fortifications of a place. [R.]

CORRIDOR TRAIN
Cor"ri*dor train.

Defn: A train whose coaches are connected so as to have through its
entire length a continuous corridor, into which the compartments
open. [Eng.]

CORRIE
Cor"rie (kr"r), n.

Defn: Same as Correi. [Scot.] Geikie.

CORRIGENDUM
Cor`ri*gen"dum (kr`r-jn"dm), n.; pl. Corrigenda (-d. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A fault or error to be corrected.

CORRIGENT
Cor"ri*gent (kr"r--jent), n. Etym: [L. corrigens, p. pr. of corrigere
to correct.] (Med.)

Defn: A substance added to a medicine to mollify or modify its
action. Dunglison.

CORRIGIBILITY
Cor`ri*gi*bil"i*ty (-j-bl"-t), n.

Defn: Quality of being corrigible; capability of being corrected;
corrigibleness.

CORRIGIBLE
Cor"ri*gi*ble (kr"r-j-b'l), a. Etym: [LL. corribilis, fr. L.
corrigere to correct: cf. F. corrigible. See Correrct.]

1. Capable of being set right, amended, or reformed; as, a corrigible
fault.

2. Submissive to correction; docile. "Bending down his corrigible
neck." Shak.

3. Deserving chastisement; punishable. [Obs.]
He was taken up very short, and adjudged corrigible for such
presumptuous language. Howell.

4. Having power to correct; corrective. [Obs.]
The . . . .corrigible authority of this lies in our wills. Shak.

CORRIGIBLENESS
Cor"ri*gi*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being corrigible; corrigibility.

CORRIVAL
Cor*ri"val (kr-r"val), n.

Defn: A fellow rival; a competitor; a rival; also, a companion. [R.]
Shak.

CORRIVAL
Cor*ri"val, a.

Defn: Having rivaling claims; emulous; in rivalry. [R.] Bp.
Fleetwood.

CORRIVAL
Cor*ri"val, v. i. & t.

Defn: To compete with; to rival. [R.]

CORRIVALRY
Cor*ri"val*ry (kr-r"val-r), n.

Defn: Corivalry. [R.]

CORRIVALSHIP
Cor*ri"val*ship, n.

Defn: Corivalry. [R.]
By the corrivalship of Shager his false friend. Sir T. Herbert.

CORRIVATE
Cor"ri*vate (kr"r-vt), v. t. Etym: [L. corrivatus, p. p. of corrivare
to corrivate.]

Defn: To cause to flow together, as water drawn from several streams.
[Obs.] Burton.

CORRIVATION
Cor`ri*va"tion (-v"shn), n. Etym: [L. corrivatio.]

Defn: The flowing of different streams into one. [Obs.] Burton.

CORROBORANT
Cor*rob"o*rant (kr-rb"-rant), a. Etym: [L. corroborans, p. pr. See
Corroborate.]

Defn: Strengthening; supporting; corroborating. Bacon.
 -- n.

Defn: Anything which gives strength or support; a tonic.
The brain, with its proper corroborants, especially with sweet odors
and with music. Southey.

CORROBORATE
Cor*rob"o*rate (kr-rb"-rt), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corroborated (-r`td);
p. pr. & vb. n. Corroborating (-r`tng). ] Etym: [L. corroboratus, p.
p. of corroborare to corroborate; cor- + roborare to strengthen,
robur strength. See Robust.]

1. To make strong, or to give additional strength to; to strengthen.
[Obs.]
As any limb well and duly exercised, grows stronger, the nerves of
the body are corroborated thereby. I. Watts.

2. To make more certain; to confirm; to establish.
The concurrence of all corroborates the same truth. I. Taylor.

CORROBORATE
Cor*rob"o*rate (-rt), a.

Defn: Corroborated. [Obs.] Bacon.

CORROBORATION
Cor*rob`o*ra"tion (kr-rb`-r"shn), n. Etym: [Cf. F. corroboration.]

1. The act of corroborating, strengthening, or confirming; addition
of strength; confirmation; as, the corroboration of an argument, or
of information.

2. That which corroborates.

CORROBORATIVE
Cor*rob"o*ra*tive (kr-rb"-r-tv), a. Etym: [Cf. F. corroboratif.]

Defn: Tending to strengthen of confirm.

CORROBORATIVE
Cor*rob"o*ra*tive, n.

Defn: A medicine that strengthens; a corroborant. Wiseman.

CORROBORATORY
Cor*rob"o*ra*to*ry (-t-r), a.

Defn: Tending to strengthen; corroborative; as, corroboratory facts.

CORROBOREE
Cor*rob"o*ree`, n. [Also corrobboree, corrobori, etc.] [Native name.]

1. A nocturnal festivity with which the Australian aborigines
celebrate tribal events of importance. Symbolic dances are given by
the young men of the tribe, while the women act as musicians.

2.  A song or chant made for such a festivity.

3.  A festivity or social gathering, esp. one of a noisy or
uproarious character; hence, tumult; uproar. [Australia]

CORROBORY
Cor*rob"o*ry, n. & v.

Defn: See Corroboree.

CORRODE
Cor*rode" (kr-rd") v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corroded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Corroding.] Etym: [L. corrodere, -rosum; cor + rodere to gnaw: cf. F.
corroder. See Rodent.]

1. To eat away by degrees; to wear away or diminish by gradually
separating or destroying small particles of, as by action of a strong
acid or a caustic alkali.
Aqua fortis corroding copper . . . is wont to reduce it to a green-
blue solution. Boyle.

2. To consume; to wear away; to prey upon; to impair.