

ALAMIRE
A`la*mi"re, n. Etym: [Compounded of a la mi re, names of notes in the
musical scale.]

Defn: The lowest note but one in Guido Aretino's scale of music.

ALAMODALITY
Al`a*mo*dal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being à la mode; conformity to the mode or
fashion; fashionableness. [R.] Southey.

ALAMODE
Al"a*mode`, adv. & a. Etym: [F. à la mode after the fashion.]

Defn: According to the fashion or prevailing mode. "Alamode beef
shops." Macaulay.

ALAMODE
Al"a*mode`, n.

Defn: A thin, black silk for hoods, scarfs, etc.; -- often called
simply mode. Buchanan.

ALAMORT
Al`a*mort", a. Etym: [F. à la mort to the death. Cf. Amort.]

Defn: To the death; mortally.

ALAN
A*lan", n. Etym: [OF. alan, alant; cf. Sp. alano.]

Defn: A wolfhound. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALAND
A*land", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + land.]

Defn: On land; to the land; ashore. "Cast aland." Sir P. Sidney.

ALANINE
Al"a*nine, n. Etym: [Aldehyde + the ending -ine. The -n- is a
euphonic insertion.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline base, C3H7NO2, derived from aldehyde
ammonia.

ALANTIN
A*lan"tin, n. Etym: [G. alant elecampane, the Inula helenium of
Linnæus.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Inulin.

ALAR
A"lar, a. Etym: [L. alarius, fr. ala wing: cf. F. alaire.]

1. Pertaining to, or having, wings.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Axillary; in the fork or axil. Gray.

ALARM
A*larm", n. Etym: [F. alarme, It. all' arme to arms ! fr. L. arma,
pl., arms. See Arms, and cf. Alarum.]

1. A summons to arms, as on the approach of an enemy.
Arming to answer in a night alarm. Shak.

2. Any sound or information intended to give notice of approaching
danger; a warming sound to arouse attention; a warning of danger.
Sound an alarm in my holy mountain. Joel ii. 1.

3. A sudden attack; disturbance; broil. [R.] "These home alarms."
Shak.
Thy palace fill with insults and alarms. Pope.

4. Sudden surprise with fear or terror excited by apprehension of
danger; in the military use, commonly, sudden apprehension of being
attacked by surprise.
Alarm and resentment spread throughout the camp. Macaulay.

5. A mechanical contrivance for awaking persons from sleep, or
rousing their attention; an alarum. Alarm bell, a bell that gives
notice on danger.
 -- Alarm clock or watch, a clock or watch which can be so set as to
ring or strike loudly at a prearranged hour, to wake from sleep, or
excite attention.
 -- Alarm gauge, a contrivance attached to a steam boiler for showing
when the pressure of steam is too high, or the water in the boiler
too low.
 -- Alarm post, a place to which troops are to repair in case of an
alarm.

Syn.
 -- Fright; affright; terror; trepidation; apprehension;
consternation; dismay; agitation; disquiet; disquietude.
 -- Alarm, Fright, Terror, Consternation. These words express
different degrees of fear at the approach of danger. Fright is fear
suddenly excited, producing confusion of the senses, and hence it is
unreflecting. Alarm is the hurried agitation of feeling which springs
from a sense of immediate and extreme exposure. Terror is agitating
and excessive fear, which usually benumbs the faculties.
Consternation is overwhelming fear, and carries a notion of
powerlessness and amazement. Alarm agitates the feelings; terror
disorders the understanding and affects the will; fright seizes on
and confuses the sense; consternation takes possession of the soul,
and subdues its faculties. See Apprehension.

ALARM
A*larm", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alarmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Alarming.]
Etym: [Alarm, n. Cf. F. alarmer.]

1. To call to arms for defense; to give notice to (any one) of
approaching danger; to rouse to vigilance and action; to put on the
alert.

2. To keep in excitement; to disturb.

3. To surprise with apprehension of danger; to fill with anxiety in
regard to threatening evil; to excite with sudden fear.
Alarmed by rumors of military preparation. Macaulay.

ALARMABLE
A*larm"a*ble, a.

Defn: Easily alarmed or disturbed.

ALARMED
A*larmed", a.

Defn: Aroused to vigilance; excited by fear of approaching danger;
agitated; disturbed; as, an alarmed neighborhood; an alarmed modesty.
The white pavilions rose and fell On the alarmed air. Longfellow.

ALARMEDLY
A*larm"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an alarmed manner.

ALARMING
A*larm"ing, a.

Defn: Exciting, or calculated to excite, alarm; causing apprehension
of danger; as, an alarming crisis or report.
 -- A*larm"ing*ly, adv.

ALARMIST
A*larm"ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alarmiste.]

Defn: One prone to sound or excite alarms, especially, needless
alarms. Macaulay.

ALARUM
A*lar"um, n. Etym: [OE. alarom, the same word as alarm, n.]

Defn: See Alarm. [Now Poetic]

Note: The variant form alarum is now commonly restricted to an alarm
signal or the mechanism to sound an alarm (as in an alarm clock.)

ALARY
Al"a*ry, a. Etym: [L. alarius, fr. ala wing.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped.
The alary system of insects. Wollaston.

ALAS
A*las", interj. Etym: [OE. alas, allas, OF. alas, F. hélas; a interj.
(L. ah.) + las wretched (that I am), L. lassus weary, akin to E.
late. See Late.]

Defn: An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension of
evil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas the
day, like alack a day, or alas the white.

ALATE
A*late", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + late.]

Defn: Lately; of late. [Archaic]
There hath been alate such tales spread abroad. Latimer.

ALATE; ALATED
A"late, A"la*ted, a. Etym: [L. alatus, from ala wing.]

Defn: Winged; having wings, or side appendages like wings.

ALATERN; ALATERNUS
Al"a*tern, Al`a*ter"nus, n. Etym: [L. ala wing + terni three each.]
(Bot.)

Defn: An ornamental evergreen shrub (Rhamnus alaternus) belonging to
the buckthorns.

ALATION
A*la"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. alatus winged.]

Defn: The state of being winged.

ALAUNT
A*launt", n.

Defn: See Alan. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALB
Alb, n. Etym: [OE. albe, LL. alba, fr. L. albus white. Cf. Album and
Aube.]

Defn: A vestment of white linen, reaching to the feet, an enveloping
the person; -- in the Roman Catholic church, worn by those in holy
orders when officiating at mass. It was formerly worn, at least by
clerics, in daily life.

ALBACORE
Al"ba*core, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Albicore.

ALBAN
Al"ban, n. Etym: [L. albus white.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta-
percha by the action of alcohol or ether.

ALBANIAN
Al*ba"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Albania, a province of Turkey.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Albania.

ALBATA
Al*ba"ta, n. Etym: [L. albatus, p. p. of albare to make white, fr.
albus white.]

Defn: A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks,
teapots, etc. British plate or German silver. See German silver,
under German.

ALBATROSS
Al"ba*tross, n. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. Pg. alcatraz cormorant,
albatross, or Sp. alcatraz a pelican: cf. Pg. alcatruz, Sp. arcaduz,
a bucket, fr. Ar. al-qadus the bucket, fr. Gr. ka`dos, a water
vessel. So an Arabic term for pelican is water-carrier, as a bird
carrying water in its pouch.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A web-footed bird, of the genus Diomedea, of which there are
several species. They are the largest of sea birds, capable of long-
continued flight, and are often seen at great distances from the
land. They are found chiefly in the southern hemisphere.

ALBE; ALBEE
Al`be", Al`bee", conj. Etym: [See Albeit.]

Defn: Although; albeit. [Obs.]
Albe Clarissa were their chiefest founderess. Spenser.

ALBEDO
Al*be"do, n. Etym: [L., fr. albus white.]

Defn: Whiteness. Specifically: (Astron.) The ratio which the light
reflected from an unpolished surface bears to the total light falling
upon that surface.

ALBEIT
Al`be"it, conj. Etym: [OE. al be although it be, where al is our all.
Cf. Although.]

Defn: Even though; although; notwithstanding. Chaucer.
Albeit so masked, Madam, I love the truth. Tennyson.

ALBERTITE
Al"bert*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A bituminous mineral resembling asphaltum, found in the county
of A.

ALBERT WARE
Al"bert ware.

Defn: A soft ornamental terra-cotta pottery, sold in the biscuit
state for decorating.

ALBERTYPE
Al"ber*type, n. Etym: [From the name of the inventor, Albert, of
Munich.]

Defn: A picture printed from a kind of gelatine plate produced by
means of a photographic negative.

ALBESCENCE
Al*bes"cence, n.

Defn: The act of becoming white; whitishness.

ALBESCENT
Al*bes"cent, a. Etym: [L. albescens, p. pr. of albescere to grow
white, fr. albus white.]

Defn: Becoming white or whitish; moderately white.

ALBICANT
Al"bi*cant, a. Etym: [L. albicans, p. pr. of albicare, albicatum, to
be white, fr. albus white.]

Defn: Growing or becoming white.

ALBICATION
Al`bi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The process of becoming white, or developing white patches, or
streaks.

ALBICORE
Al"bi*core, n. Etym: [F. albicore (cf. Sp. albacora, Pg. albacor,
albacora, albecora), fr. Ar. bakr, bekr, a young camel, young cow,
heifer, and the article al: cf. Pg. bacoro a little pig.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name applied to several large fishes of the Mackerel family,
esp. Orcynus alalonga. One species (Orcynus thynnus), common in the
Mediterranean and Atlantic, is called in New England the horse
mackerel; the tunny. [Written also albacore.]

ALBIFICATION
Al`bi*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. albification: L. albus white +
ficare (only in comp.), facere, to make.]

Defn: The act or process of making white. [Obs.]

ALBIGENSES; ALBIGEOIS
Al`bi*gen"ses, Al`bi`geois", n. pl. Etym: [From Albi and Albigeois, a
town and its district in the south of France, in which the sect
abounded.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A sect of reformers opposed to the church of Rome in the 12th
centuries.

Note: The Albigenses were a branch of the Catharists (the pure). They
were exterminated by crusades and the Inquisition. They were distinct
from the Waldenses.

ALBIGENSIAN
Al`bi*gen"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Albigenses.

ALBINESS
Al*bi"ness, n.

Defn: A female albino. Holmes.

ALBINISM
Al"bi*nism, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being an albino: abinoism;
leucopathy.

ALBINISTIC
Al`bi*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Affected with albinism.

ALBINO
Al*bi"no, n.; pl. Albinos. Etym: [Sp. or Pg. albino, orig. whitish,
fr. albo white, L. albus.]

Defn: A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by some
defect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin,
hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state. An albino has a
skin of a milky hue, with hair of the same color, and eyes with deep
red pupil and pink or blue iris. The term is also used of the lower
animals, as white mice, elephants, etc.; and of plants in a whitish
condition from the absence of chlorophyll. Amer. Cyc.

Note: The term was originally applied by the Portuguese to negroes
met with on the coast of Africa, who were mottled with white spots.

ALBINOISM
Al*bi"no*ism, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being an albino; albinism.

ALBINOTIC
Al`bi*not"ic, a.

Defn: Affected with albinism.

ALBION
Al"bi*on, n. Etym: [Prob. from the same root as Gael. alp a height or
hill. "It may have been bestowed on the land lying behind the white
cliffs visible from the coast of Gaul. Albany, the old name of
Scotland, means probably the "hilly land." I. Taylor.]

Defn: An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry.
In that nook-shotten isle of Albion. Shak.

ALBITE
Al"bite, n. Etym: [L. albus white.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization,
and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda. It is a common
constituent of granite and of various igneous rocks. See Feldspar.

ALBOLITH
Al"bo*lith, n. Etym: [L. albus white + -lith.]

Defn: A kind of plastic cement, or artificial stone, consisting
chiefly of magnesia and silica; -- called also albolite.

ALBORAK
Al"bo*rak, n. Etym: [Ar. al-buraq, fr. baraqa to flash, shine.]

Defn: The imaginary milk-white animal on which Mohammed was said to
have been carried up to heaven; a white mule.

ALB SUNDAY
Alb Sunday. (Eccl.)

Defn: The first Sunday after Easter Sunday, properly Albless Sunday,
because in the early church those who had been baptized on Easter eve
laid aside on the following Saturday their white albs which had been
put on after baptism.

ALBUGINEOUS
Al`bu*gin"e*ous, a. Etym: [See Albugo.]

Defn: Of the nature of, or resembling, the white of the eye, or of an
egg; albuminous; -- a term applied to textures, humors, etc., which
are perfectly white.

ALBUGO
Al*bu"go, n.; pl. Albugines. Etym: [L., whiteness, fr. albus white.]
(Med.)

Defn: Same as Leucoma.

ALBUM
Al"bum, n. Etym: [L., neut. of albus white: cf. F. album. Cf. Alb.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list of
names, etc.

2. A register for visitors' names; a visitors' book.

3. A blank book, in which to insert autographs sketches, memorial
writing of friends, photographs, etc.

ALBUMEN
Al*bu"men, n. Etym: [L., fr. albus white.]

1. The white of an egg.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Nourishing matter stored up within the integuments of the seed
in many plants, but not incorporated in the embryo. It is the floury
part in corn, wheat, and like grains, the oily part in poppy seeds,
the fleshy part in the cocoanut, etc.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Albumin.

ALBUMENIZE
Al*bu"men*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Albumenized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Albumenizing.]

Defn: To cover or saturate with albumen; to coat or treat with an
albuminous solution; as, to albuminize paper.

ALBUM GRAECUM
Al"bum Græ"cum. Etym: [L., Greek white.]

Defn: Dung of dogs or hyenas, which becomes white by exposure to air.
It is used in dressing leather, and was formerly used in medicine.

ALBUMIN
Al*bu"min, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A thick, viscous nitrogenous substance, which is the chief and
characteristic constituent of white of eggs and of the serum of
blood, and is found in other animal substances, both fluid and solid,
also in many plants. It is soluble in water is coagulated by heat ad
by certain chemical reagents. Acid albumin, a modification of albumin
produced by the action of dilute acids. It is not coagulated by heat.
 -- Alkali albumin, albumin as modified by the action of alkaline
substances; -- called also albuminate.

ALBUMINATE
Al*bu"mi*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance produced by the action of an alkali upon albumin,
and resembling casein in its properties; also, a compound formed by
the union of albumin with another substance.

ALBUMINIFEROUS
Al*bu`mi*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. albumen + -ferous.]

Defn: Supplying albumen.

ALBUMINIMETER
Al*bu`mi*nim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. albumen, albuminis + -meter: cf. F.
albuminimètre.]

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of albumen in a
liquid.

ALBUMININ
Al*bu"mi*nin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The substance of the cells which inclose the white of birds'
eggs.

ALBUMINIPAROUS
Al*bu`mi*nip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. albumen + parere to bear, bring
forth.]

Defn: Producing albumin.

ALBUMINOID
Al*bu"mi*noid, a. Etym: [L. albumen + -oid.] (Chem.)

Defn: Resembling albumin.
 -- n.

Defn: One of a class of organic principles (called also proteids)
which form the main part of organized tissues. Brunton.

ALBUMINOIDAL
Al*bu`mi*noid"al, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of the nature of an albuminoid.

ALBUMINOSE
Al*bu"mi*nose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A diffusible substance formed from albumin by the action of
natural or artificial gastric juice. See Peptone.

ALBUMINOSIS
Al*bu`mi*no"sis, n. [NL., fr. E. albumin.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition due to excessive increase of albuminous
elements in the blood.

ALBUMINOUS; ALBUMINOSE
Al*bu"mi*nous, Al*bu"mi*nose`, a. Etym: [Cf. F. albumineux.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, albumen; having the properties
of, or resembling, albumen or albumin.
 -- Al*bu"mi*nous*ness, n.

ALBUMINURIA
Al*bu`mi*nu"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. albumen + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition in which albumin is present in the urine.

ALBUMOSE
Al"bu*mose`, n. Etym: [From albumin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound or class of compounds formed from albumin by dilute
acids or by an acid solution of pepsin. Used also in combination, as
antialbumose, hemialbumose.

ALBURN
Al"burn, n. Etym: [L. alburnus, fr. L. albus white. Cf. Auburn.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarly
silvery color which are used in making artificial pearls.

ALBURNOUS
Al*bur"nous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to alburnum; of the alburnum; as, alburnous
substances.

ALBURNUM
Al*bur"num, n. Etym: [L., fr. albus white.] (Bot.)

Defn: The white and softer part of wood, between the inner bark and
the hard wood or duramen; sapwood.

ALBYN
Al"byn, n. Etym: [See Albion.]

Defn: Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland. T. Cambell.

ALCADE
Al*cade", n.

Defn: Same as Alcaid.

ALCAHEST
Al"ca*hest, n.

Defn: Same as Alkahest.

ALCAIC
Al*ca"ic, a. Etym: [L. Alcaïcus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to Alcæus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b.
c.
 -- n. A kind of verse, so called from Alcæus. One variety consists
of five feet, a spondee or iambic, an iambic, a long syllable, and
two dactyls.

ALCAID; ALCAYDE
Al*caid", Al*cayde", n. Etym: [Sp. alcaide, fr. Ar. al-qa\'c6d
governor, fr. qada to lead, govern.]

1. A commander of a castle or fortress among the Spaniards,
Portuguese, and Moors.

2. The warden, or keeper of a jail.

ALCALDE
Al*cal"de, n. Etym: [Sp. alcalde, fr. Ar. al-qadi judge, fr. qada to
decide, judge. Hence, the cadi of the Turks. Cf. Cadi.]

Defn: A magistrate or judge in Spain and in Spanish America, etc.
Prescott.

Note: Sometimes confounded with Alcaid.

ALCALDIA
Al`cal*di"a, n. [Sp. Alcaldía.]

Defn: The jurisdiction or office of an alcalde; also, the building or
chamber in which he conducts the business of his office.

ALCALIMETER
Al`ca*lim"e*ter, n.

Defn: See Alkalimeter.

ALCANNA
Al*can"na, n. Etym: [Sp. alcana, alhe, fr. Ar. al-hinna. See Henna,
and cf. Alkanet.] (Bot.)

Defn: An oriental shrub (Lawsonia inermis) from which henna is
obtained.

ALCARRAZA
Al`car*ra"za, n.; pl. Alcarrazas. Etym: [Sp., from Ar. al-kurraz
earthen vessel.]

Defn: A vessel of porous earthenware, used for cooling liquids by
evaporation from the exterior surface.

ALCAYDE
Al*cayde", n.

Defn: Same as Alcaid.

ALCAZAR
Al*ca"zar, n. Etym: [ fr. Ar. al the + qacr (in pl.) a castle.]

Defn: A fortress; also, a royal palace. Prescott.

ALCEDO
Al*ce"do, n. Etym: [L., equiv. to Gr. Halcyon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher
(Alcedo ispida). See Halcyon.

ALCHEMIC; ALCHEMICAL
Al*chem"ic, Al*chem"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alchimique.]

Defn: Of or relating to alchemy.

ALCHEMICALLY
Al*chem"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of alchemy.

ALCHEMIST
Al"che*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. alquemiste, F. alchimiste.]

Defn: One who practices alchemy.
You are alchemist; make gold. Shak.

ALCHEMISTIC; ALCHEMISTICAL
Al`che*mis"tic, Al`che*mis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to or practicing alchemy.
Metaphysical and alchemistical legislators. Burke.

ALCHEMISTRY
Al"che*mis*try, n.

Defn: Alchemy. [Obs.]

ALCHEMIZE
Al"che*mize, v. t.

Defn: To change by alchemy; to transmute. Lovelace.

ALCHEMY
Al"che*my, n. Etym: [OF. alkemie, arquemie, F. alchimie, Ar. al-
kimia, fr. late Gr. alquimia, It. alchimia. Gr. fundere to pour,
Goth. guitan, AS. geótan, to pour, and so to E. fuse. See Fuse, and
cf. Chemistry.]

1. An imaginary art which aimed to transmute the baser metals into
gold, to find the panacea, or universal remedy for diseases, etc. It
led the way to modern chemistry.

2. A mixed metal composed mainly of brass, formerly used for various
utensils; hence, a trumpet. [Obs.]
Put to their mouths the sounding alchemy. Milton.

3. Miraculous power of transmuting something common into something
precious.
Kissing with golden face the meadows green, Gilding pale streams with
heavenly alchemy. Shak.

ALCHYMIC; ALCHYMIST; ALCHYMISTIC; ALCHYMY
Al*chym"ic, a., Al"chy*mist, n., Al`chy*mis"tic, a., Al"chy*my, n.

Defn: See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.

ALCO
Al"co, n.

Defn: A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines.

ALCOATE; ALCOHATE
Al"co*ate, Al"co*hate, n.

Defn: Shortened forms of Alcoholate.

ALCOHOL
Al"co*hol, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcool, formerly written alcohol, Sp.
alcohol alcohol, antimony, galena, OSp. alcofol; all fr. Ar. al-kohl
a powder of antimony or galena, to paint the eyebrows with. The name
was afterwards applied, on account of the fineness of this powder, to
highly rectified spirits, a signification unknown in Arabia. The Sp.
word has bot meanings. Cf. Alquifou.]

1. An impalpable powder. [Obs.]

2. The fluid essence or pure spirit obtained by distillation. [Obs.]
Boyle.

3. Pure spirit of wine; pure or highly rectified spirit (called also
ethyl alcohol); the spirituous or intoxicating element of fermented
or distilled liquors, or more loosely a liquid containing it in
considerable quantity. It is extracted by simple distillation from
various vegetable juices and infusions of a saccharine nature, which
have undergone vinous fermentation.

Note: As used in the U. S. "Pharmacopoeia, alcohol contains 91 per
cent by weight of ethyl alcohol and 9 per cent of water; and diluted
alcohol (proof spirit) contains 45.5 per cent by weight of ethyl
alcohol and 54.5 per cent of water.

4. (Organic Chem.)

Defn: A class of compounds analogous to vinic alcohol in
constitution. Chemically speaking, they are hydroxides of certain
organic radicals; as, the radical ethyl forms common or ethyl alcohol
(C2H5OH); methyl forms methyl alcohol (CH3.OH) or wood spirit; amyl
forms amyl alcohol (C5H11.OH) or fusel oil, etc.

ALCOHOLATE
Al"co*hol*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcolaie.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystallizable compound of a salt with alcohol, in which the
latter plays a part analogous to that of water of crystallization.
Graham.

ALCOHOLATURE
Al`co*hol"a*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcoolature.] (Med.)

Defn: An alcoholic tincture prepared with fresh plants. New Eng.
Dict.

ALCOHOLIC
Al`co*hol"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcolique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to alcohol, or partaking of its qualities;
derived from, or caused by, alcohol; containing alcohol; as,
alcoholic mixtures; alcoholic gastritis; alcoholic odor.

ALCOHOLIC
Al`co*hol"ic, n.

1. A person given to the use of alcoholic liquors.

2. pl.

Defn: Alcoholic liquors.

ALCOHOLISM
Al"co*hol*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcoolisme.] (Med.)

Defn: A diseased condition of the system, brought about by the
continued use of alcoholic liquors.

ALCOHOLIZATION
Al`co*hol`i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcoolisation.]

1. The act of reducing a substance to a fine or impalpable powder.
[Obs.] Johnson.

2. The act rectifying spirit.

3. Saturation with alcohol; putting the animal system under the
influence of alcoholic liquor.

ALCOHOLIZE
Al"co*hol*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alcoholized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alcoholizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. alcooliser.]

1. To reduce to a fine powder. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. To convert into alcohol; to rectify; also, to saturate with
alcohol.

ALCOHOLOMETER; ALCOHOLMETER
Al`co*hol*om"e*ter, Al`co*hol"me*ter, n. Etym: [Alcohol + -meter.]
(Chem.)

Defn: An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with a
scale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol,
either by weight or volume. It is usually a form of hydrometer with a
special scale.

ALCOHOLOMETRIC; ALCOHOLOMETRICAL; ALCOHOLMETRICAL
Al`co*hol`o*met"ric, Al`co*hol`o*met"ric*al, Al`co*hol*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Relating to the alcoholometer or alcoholometry.
The alcoholometrical strength of spirituous liquors. Ure.

ALCOHOLOMETRY
Al`co*hol"om"e*try, n.

Defn: The process or method of ascertaining the proportion of pure
alcohol which spirituous liquors contain.

ALCOHOMETER; ALCOHOMETRIC
Al`co*hom"e*ter, n., Al`co*ho*met"ric, a.

Defn: Same as Alcoholometer, Alcoholometric.

ALCOOMETRY; ALCOOEMETRY
Al`co*öm"e*try, n.

Defn: See Alcoholometry.

Note: The chemists say alcomètre, alcoomètrie, doubtless by the
suppression of a syllable in order to avoid a disagreeable sequence
of sounds. (Cf. Idolatry.) Littré.

ALCORAN
Al"co*ran, n. Etym: [alcoran, fr. Ar. al-qoran, orig. the reading,
the book, fr. qaraa to read. Cf. Koran.]

Defn: The Mohammedan Scriptures; the Koran (now the usual form).
[Spelt also Alcoran.]

ALCORANIC
Al`co*ran"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Koran.

ALCORANIST
Al`co*ran"ist, n.

Defn: One who adheres to the letter of the Koran, rejecting all
traditions.

ALCORNOQUE
Al`cor*no"que, n. [Sp., cork tree.]

Defn: The bark of several trees, esp. of Bowdichia virgilioides of
Brazil, used as a remedy for consumption; of Byrsonima crassifolia,
used in tanning; of Alchornea latifolia, used medicinally; or of
Quercus ilex, the cork tree.

ALCOVE
Al"cove, n. Etym: [F. alcôve, Sp. or Pg. alcoba, from Ar. al-quobbah
arch, vault, tent.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into a
larger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recess
in a library.

2. A small ornamental building with seats, or an arched seat, in a
pleasure ground; a garden bower. Cowper.

3. Any natural recess analogous to an alcove or recess in an
apartment.
The youthful wanderers found a wild alcove. Falconer.

ALCYON
Al"cy*on, n.

Defn: See Halcyon.

ALCYONACEA
Al`cy*o*na"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of soft-bodied Alcyonaria, of which Alcyonium is the
type. See Illust. under Alcyonaria.

ALCYONARIA
Al`cy*o*na"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the orders of Anthozoa. It includes the Alcyonacea,
Pennatulacea, and Gorgonacea.

ALCYONES
Al*cy"o*nes, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of Alcyon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The kingfishers.

ALCYONIC
Al`cy*on"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.

ALCYONIUM
Al`cy*o"ni*um, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fleshy Alcyonaria, its polyps somewhat resembling
flowers with eight fringed rays. The term was also formerly used for
certain species of sponges.

ALCYONOID
Al"cy*o*noid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.
 -- n.

Defn: A zoöphyte of the order Alcyonaria.

ALDAY
Al"day, adv.

Defn: Continually. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALDEBARAN
Al*deb"a*ran, n. Etym: [Ar. al-debaran, fr. dabar to follow; so
called because this star follows upon the Pleiades.] (Astron.)

Defn: A red star of the first magnitude, situated in the eye of
Taurus; the Bull's Eye. It is the bright star in the group called the
Hyades.
Now when Aldebaran was mounted high Above the shiny Cassiopeia's
chair. Spenser.

ALDEHYDE
Al"de*hyde, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. alcohol dehydrogenatum, alcohol
deprived of its hydrogen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, mobile, and very volatile liquid obtained from
alcohol by certain of oxidation.

Note: The aldehydes are intermediate between the alcohols and acids,
and differ from the alcohols in having two less hydrogen atoms in the
molecule, as common aldehyde (called also acetic aldehyde or ethyl
aldehyde), C2H4O; methyl aldehyde, CH2O. Aldehyde ammonia (Chem.), a
compound formed by the union of aldehyde with ammonia.

ALDEHYDIC
Al`de*hy"dic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to aldehyde; as, aldehydic acid. Miller.

ALDER
Al"der, n. Etym: [OE. aldir, aller, fr. AS. alr, aler, alor, akin to
D. els, G. erle, Icel. erlir, erli, Swed. al, Dan. elle, el, L.
alnus, and E. elm.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to the
genus Alnus. The wood is used by turners, etc.; the bark by dyers and
tanners. In the U. S. the species of alder are usually shrubs or
small trees. Black alder. (a) A European shrub (Rhamnus frangula);
Alder buckthorn. (b) An American species of holly (Ilex
verticillata), bearing red berries.

ALDER; ALLER
Al"der, Al"ler, a. Etym: [From ealra, alra, gen. pl. of AS. eal. The
d is excrescent.]

Defn: Of all; -- used in composition; as, alderbest, best of all,
alderwisest, wisest of all. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALDER FLY
Al"der fly.

1. Any of numerous neuropterous insects of the genus Sialis or allied
genera. They have aquatic larvæ, which are used for bait.

2.  (Angling) An artificial fly with brown mottled wings, body of
peacock harl, and black legs.

ALDER-LIEFEST
Al`der-lief"est, a. Etym: [For allerliefest dearest of all. See
Lief.]

Defn: Most beloved. [Obs.] Shak.

ALDERMAN
Al"der*man, n.; pl. Aldplwmen. Etym: [AS. aldormon, ealdorman; ealdor
an elder + man. See Elder, n.]

1. A senior or superior; a person of rank or dignity. [Obs.]

Note: The title was applied, among the Anglo-Saxons, to princes,
dukes, earls, senators, and presiding magistrates; also to
archbishops and bishops, implying superior wisdom or authority. Thus
Ethelstan, duke of the East-Anglians, was called Alderman of all
England; and there were aldermen of cities, counties, and castles,
who had jurisdiction within their respective districts.

3. One of a board or body of municipal officers next in order to the
mayor and having a legislative function. They may, in some cases,
individually exercise some magisterial and administrative functions.

ALDERMANCY
Al"der*man*cy, n.

Defn: The office of an alderman.

ALDERMANIC
Al"der*man"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to, becoming to, or like, an alderman; characteristic
of an alderman.

ALDERMANITY
Al`der*man"i*ty, n.

1. Aldermen collectively; the body of aldermen.

2. The state of being an alderman. [Jocular]

ALDERMANLIKE
Al`der*man*like`, a.

Defn: Like or suited to an alderman.

ALDERMANLY
Al"der*man*ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an alderman.

ALDERMANLY
Al"der*man*ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an alderman. "An aldermanly
discretion." Swift.

ALDERMANRY
Al"der*man*ry, n.

1. The district or ward of an alderman.

2. The office or rank of an alderman. [R.] B. Jonson.

ALDERMANSHIP
Al"der*man*ship, n.

Defn: The condition, position, or office of an alderman. Fabyan.

ALDERN
Al"dern, a.

Defn: Made of alder.

ALDERNEY
Al"der*ney, n.

Defn: One of a breed of cattle raised in Alderney, one of the Channel
Islands. Alderneys are of a dun or tawny color and are often called
Jersey cattle. See Jersey, 3.

ALDINE
Al"dine, a. (Bibliog.)

Defn: An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics) which
proceeded from the press of Aldus Manitius, and his family, of
Venice, for the most part in the 16th century and known by the sign
of the anchor and the dolphin. The term has also been applied to
certain elegant editions of English works.

ALDOL
Al"dol, n.  [Aldehyde + -ol as in alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless liquid, C4H8O2, obtained by condensation of two
molecules of acetaldehyde: CH3CHO + CH3CHO = H3CH(OH)CH2CO; also, any
of various derivatives of this. The same reaction has been applied,
under the name of aldol condensation, to the production of many
compounds.

ALE
Ale, n. Etym: [AS. ealu, akin to Icel., Sw., and Dan. öl, Lith. alus
a kind of beer, OSlav. ol beer. Cf. Ir. ol drink, drinking.]

1. An intoxicating liquor made from an infusion of malt by
fermentation and the addition of a bitter, usually hops.

Note: The word ale, in England and the United States, usually
designates a heavier kind of fermented liquor, and the word beer a
lighter kind. The word beer is also in common use as the generic name
for all malt liquors.

2. A festival in English country places, so called from the liquor
drunk. "At wakes and ales." B. Jonson."On ember eves and holy ales."
Shak.

ALEAK
A*leak", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + leak.]

Defn: In a leaking condition.

ALEATORY
A"le*a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. aleatorius, fr. alea chance, die.] (Law)

Defn: Depending on some uncertain contingency; as, an aleatory
contract. Bouvier.

ALEBENCH
Ale"bench`, n.

Defn: A bench in or before an alehouse. Bunyan.

ALEBERRY
Ale"ber`ry, n. Etym: [OE. alebery, alebrey; ale + bre broth, fr. AS.
briw pottage.]

Defn: A beverage, formerly made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, and
sops of bread.
Their aleberries, caudles, possets. Beau. & Fl.

ALECITHAL
A*lec"i*thal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Applied to those ova which segment uniformly, and which have
little or no food yelk embedded in their protoplasm. Balfour.

ALECONNER
Ale"con`ner, n. Etym: [/Ale + con, OE. cunnen to test, AS. cunnian to
test. See Con.]

Defn: Orig., an officer appointed to look to the goodness of ale and
beer; also, one of the officers chosen by the liverymen of London to
inspect the measures used in public houses. But the office is a
sinecure. [Also called aletaster.] [Eng.]

ALECOST
Ale"cost`, n. Etym: [Ale + L. costus an aromatic plant: cf.
Costmary.] (Bot.)

Defn: The plant costmary, which was formerly much used for flavoring
ale.

ALECTORIDES
Al`ec*tor"i*des, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of birds including the common fowl and the pheasants.

ALECTOROMACHY
A*lec`to*rom"a*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Cockfighting.

ALECTOROMANCY
A*lec"to*ro*man`cy, n.

Defn: See Alectryomancy.

ALECTRYOMACHY
A*lec`try*oma*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Cockfighting.

ALECTRYOMANCY
A*lec"try*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on the
letters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the order
in which the grains were eaten. Amer. Cyc.

ALEE
A*lee", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + lee.] (Naut.)

Defn: On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; the
opposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed close
to the lee side. Hard alee, or Luff alee, an order to put the helm to
the lee side.

ALEGAR
Al"e*gar, n. Etym: [Ale + eager sour, F. aigre. Cf. Vinegar.]

Defn: Sour ale; vinegar made of ale. Cecil.

ALEGER
Al"e*ger, a. Etym: [F. allègre, earlier alègre, fr. L. alacer.]

Defn: Gay; cheerful; sprightly. [Obs.] Bacon.

ALEGGE
A*legge", v. t. Etym: [OE. aleggen, alegen, OF. alegier, F. alléger,
fr. LL. alleviare, for L. allevare to lighten; ad + levis light. Cf.
Alleviate, Allay, Allege.]

Defn: To allay or alleviate; to lighten. [Obs.]
That shall alegge this bitter blast. Spenser.

ALEHOOF
Ale"hoof`, n. Etym: [AS. h ground ivy; the first part is perh. a
corruption: cf. OE. heyhowe hedgehove,

ground ivy, "in old MSS. heyhowe, heyoue, haihoue, halehoue."
[Prior].

Defn: Ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma).

ALEHOUSE
Ale"house`, n.

Defn: A house where ale is retailed; hence, a tippling house.
Macaulay.

ALE-KNIGHT
Ale"-knight`, n.

Defn: A pot companion. [Obs.]

ALEM
Al"em, n. [Turk. 'alem, fr. Ar. 'alam.] (Mil.)

Defn: The imperial standard of the Turkish Empire.

ALEMANNIC
Al`e*man"nic, a.

Defn: Belonging to the Alemanni, a confederacy of warlike German
tribes.

ALEMANNIC
Al`e*man"nic, n.

Defn: The language of the Alemanni.
The Swabian dialect . . . is known as the Alemannic. Amer. Cyc.

ALEMBIC
A*lem"bic, n. Etym: [F. alambic (cf. Sp. alambique), Ar. al-anbiq,
fr. Gr. alembic proper. Cf. Limbec.]

Defn: An apparatus formerly used in distillation, usually made of
glass or metal. It has mostly given place to the retort and worm
still.
Used also metaphorically. The alembic of a great poet's imagination.
Brimley.

ALEMBROTH
A*lem"broth, n. Etym: [Origin uncertain.]

Defn: The salt of wisdom of the alchemists, a double salt composed of
the chlorides of ammonium and mercury. It was formerly used as a
stimulant. Brande & C.

ALENCON LACE
A`len`con" lace".

Defn: See under Lace.

ALENGTH
A*length", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + length.]

Defn: At full length; lenghtwise. Chaucer.

ALEPIDOTE
A*lep"i*dote, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not having scales.
 -- n.

Defn: A fish without scales.

ALEPOLE
Ale"pole`, n.

Defn: A pole set up as the sign of an alehouse. [Obs.]

ALEPPO BOIL; ALEPPO BUTTON; ALEPPO EVIL
A*lep"po boil, button, or evil. (Med.)

Defn: A chronic skin affection terminating in an ulcer, most commonly
of the face. It is endemic along the Mediterranean, and is probably
due to a specific bacillus. Called also Aleppo ulcer, Biskara boil,
Delhi boil, Oriental sore, etc.

ALEPPO GRASS
Aleppo grass. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the cultivated forms of Andropogon Halepensis (syn.
Sorghum Halepense). See Andropogon, below.

ALERT
A*lert", a. Etym: [F. alerte, earlier à l'erte on the watch, fr. It.
all' erta on the watch, prop. (standing) on a height, where one can
look around; erta a declivity, steep, erto steep, p. p. of ergere,
erigere, to erect, raise, L. erigere. See Erect.]

1. Watchful; vigilant; active in vigilance.

2. Brisk; nimble; moving with celerity.
An alert young fellow. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Active; agile; lively; quick; prompt.

ALERT
A*lert", n. (Mil.)

Defn: An alarm from a real or threatened attack; a sudden attack;
also, a bugle sound to give warning. "We have had an alert." Farrow.
On the alert, on the lookout or watch against attack or danger; ready
to act.

ALERTLY
A*lert"ly, adv.

Defn: In an alert manner; nimbly.

ALERTNESS
A*lert"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alert or on the alert; briskness;
nimbleness; activity.

ALE SILVER
Ale" sil`ver.

Defn: A duty payable to the lord mayor of London by the sellers of
ale within the city.

ALESTAKE
Ale"stake, n.

Defn: A stake or pole projecting from, or set up before, an alehouse,
as a sign; an alepole. At the end was commonly suspended a garland, a
bunch of leaves, or a "bush." [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALETASTER
Ale"tast`er, n.

Defn: See Aleconner. [Eng.]

ALETHIOLOGY
A*le`thi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of the nature of truth and evidence.
Sir W. Hamilton.

ALETHOSCOPE
A*leth"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An instrument for viewing pictures by means of a lens, so as to
present them in their natural proportions and relations.

ALEUROMANCY
A*leu"ro*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. aleuromancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of flour. Encyc. Brit.

ALEUROMETER
Al`eu*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for determining the expansive properties, or
quality, of gluten in flour. Knight.

ALEURONAT
A*leu"ro*nat, n. [See Aleurone.]

Defn: Flour made of aleurone, used as a substitute for ordinary flour
in preparing bread for diabetic persons.

ALEURONE
A*leu"rone, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An albuminoid substance which occurs in minute grains ("protein
granules") in maturing seeds and tubers; -- supposed to be a
modification of protoplasm.

ALEURONIC
Al`eu*ron"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the nature of aleurone. D. C. Eaton.

ALEUTIAN; ALEUTIC
A*leu"tian, A*leu"tic, a. Etym: [Said to be from the Russ. aleut a
bold rock.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chain of islands between Alaska and
Kamtchatka; also, designating these islands.

ALEVIN
Al"e*vin, n. Etym: [F. alevin, OF. alever to rear, fr. L. ad + levare
to raise.]

Defn: Young fish; fry.

ALEW
A*lew", n.

Defn: Halloo. [Obs.] Spenser.

ALEWIFE
Ale"wife`, n.; pl. Alewives.

Defn: A woman who keeps an alehouse. Gay.

ALEWIFE
Ale"wife`, n.; pl. Alewives. Etym: [This word is properly aloof, the
Indian name of a fish. See Winthrop on the culture of maize in
America, "Phil Trans." No. 142, p. 1065, and Baddam's "Memoirs," vol.
ii. p. 131.]Etym: (Zoöl.)

Defn: A North American fish (Clupea vernalis) of the Herring family.
It is called also ellwife, ellwhop, branch herring. The name is
locally applied to other related species.

ALEXANDERS; ALISANDERS
Al`ex*an"ders, Al`i*san"ders, n. Etym: [OE. alisaundre, OF.
alissandere, fr. Alexander or Alexandria.] (Bot)

Defn: A name given to two species of the genus Smyrnium, formerly
cultivated and used as celery now is; -- called also horse parsely.

ALEXANDRIAN
Al`ex*an"dri*an, a.

1. Of or pertaining to Alexandria in Egypt; as, the Alexandrian
library.

2. Applied to a kind of heroic verse. See Alexandrine, n.

ALEXANDRINE
Al`ex*an"drine, a.

Defn: Belonging to Alexandria; Alexandrian. Bancroft.

ALEXANDRINE
Al`ex*an"drine, n. Etym: [F. alexandrin.]

Defn: A kind of verse consisting in English of twelve syllables.
The needless Alexandrine ends the song, That, like a wounded snake,
drags its slow length along. Pope.

ALEXIA
A*lex"i*a, n. [NL.; a- not + Gr.  speech, fr.  to speak, confused
with L. legere to read.] (Med.)
 (a) As used by some, inability to read aloud, due to brain disease.
 (b) More commonly, inability, due to brain disease, to understand
written or printed symbols although they can be seen, as in case of
word blindness.

ALEXIPHARMAC; ALEXIPHARMACAL
A*lex`i*phar"mac, A*lex`i*phar"ma*cal, a. & n. Etym: [See
Alexipharmic.]

Defn: Alexipharmic. [Obs.]

ALEXIPHARMIC
A*lex`i*phar"mic, n. (Med.)

Defn: An antidote against poison or infection; a counterpoison.

ALEXIPHARMIC; ALEXIPHARMICAL
A*lex`i*phar"mic, A*lex`i*phar"mic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. alexipharmaque.]
(Med.)

Defn: Expelling or counteracting poison; antidotal.

ALEXIPYRETIC
A*lex`i*py*ret"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Serving to drive off fever; antifebrile.
 -- n.

Defn: A febrifuge.

ALEXITERIC
A*lex`i*ter"ic, n. Etym: [Gr. alexitère, LL. alexiterium.] (Med.)

Defn: A preservative against contagious and infectious diseases, and
the effects of poison in general. Brande & C.

ALEXITERIC; ALEXITERICAL
A*lex`i*ter"ic, A*lex`i*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. alexitère.] (med.)

Defn: Resisting poison; obviating the effects of venom; alexipharmic.

ALFA ; ALFA GRASS
Al"fa or Al"fa grass", n.

Defn: A plant (Macrochloa tenacissima) of North Africa; also, its
fiber, used in paper making.

ALFALFA
Al*fal"fa, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Bot.)

Defn: The lucern (Medicago sativa); -- so called in California,
Texas, etc.

ALFENIDE
Al"fe*nide, n. (Metal.)

Defn: An alloy of nickel and silver electroplated with silver.

ALFERES
Al*fe"res, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. Ar. al-fars knight.]

Defn: An ensign; a standard bearer. [Obs.] J. Fletcher.

ALFET
Al"fet, n. Etym: [LL. alfetum, fr. AS. alfæt a pot to boil in; al
burning + fæt vat.]

Defn: A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plunged
his forearm as a test of innocence or guilt.

ALFILARIA
Al*fil`a*ri"a, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The pin grass (Erodium cicutarium), a weed in California.

ALFILERIA; ALFILERILLA
Al*fil`e*ri"a, Al*fil`e*ril"la, n. [Mex. Sp., fr. Sp. alfiler pin.]

Defn: Same as Alfilaria.

ALFIONE
Al`fi*o"ne, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edible marine fish of California (Rhacochilus toxotes).

ALFORJA
Al*for"ja, n. [Also alfarga, alforge.] [Sp.]

Defn: A saddlebag. [Sp. Amer.]

ALFRESCO
Al*fres"co, adv. & a. Etym: [It. al fresco in or on the fresh.]

Defn: In the open-air. Smollett.

ALGA
Al"ga, n.; pl. Algæ. Etym: [L., seaweed.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plants
which includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse,
sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervæ, etc.

ALGAL
Al"gal, a., (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, algæ.

ALGAROBA
Al`ga*ro"ba, n. Etym: [Sp. algarroba, fr. Ar. al-kharr. Cf. Carob.]
(Bot.)
(a) The Carob, a leguminous tree of the Mediterranean region; also,
its edible beans or pods, called St. John's bread.
(b) The Honey mesquite (Prosopis juliflora), a small tree found from
California to Buenos Ayres; also, its sweet, pulpy pods. A valuable
gum, resembling gum arabic, is collected from the tree in Texas and
Mexico.

ALGAROT; ALGAROTH
Al"ga*rot, Al"ga*roth, n. Etym: [F. algaroth, fr. the name of the
inventor, Algarotti.] (Med.)

Defn: A term used for the Powder of Algaroth, a white powder which is
a compound of trichloride and trioxide of antimony. It was formerly
used in medicine as an emetic, purgative, and diaphoretic.

ALGAROVILLA
Al`ga*ro*vil"la, n.

Defn: The agglutinated seeds and husks of the legumes of a South
American tree (Inga Marthæ). It is valuable for tanning leather, and
as a dye.

ALGATE; ALGATES
Al"gate, Al"gates, adv. Etym: [All + gate way. The s is an adverbial
ending. See Gate.]

1. Always; wholly; everywhere. [Obs.]
Ulna now he algates must forego. Spenser.

Note: Still used in the north of England in the sense of
"everywhere."

2. By any or means; at all events. [Obs.] Fairfax.

3. Notwithstanding; yet. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALGAZEL
Al"ga*zel`, n. Etym: [Ar. al the + ghazal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The true gazelle.

ALGEBRA
Al"ge*bra, n. Etym: [LL. algebra, fr. Ar. al-jebr reduction of parts
to a whole, or fractions to whole numbers, fr. jabara to bind
together, consolidate; al-jebr w'almuqabalah reduction and comparison
(by equations): cf. F. algèbre, It. & Sp. algebra.]

1. (Math.)

Defn: That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations and
properties of quantity by means of letters and other symbols. It is
applicable to those relations that are true of every kind of
magnitude.

2. A treatise on this science.

ALGEBRAIC; ALGEBRAICAL
Al`ge*bra"ic, Al`ge*bra"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to algebra; containing an operation of
algebra, or deduced from such operation; as, algebraic characters;
algebraical writings. Algebraic curve, a curve such that the equation
which expresses the relation between the coördinates of its points
involves only the ordinary operations of algebra; -- opposed to a
transcendental curve.

ALGEBRAICALLY
Al`ge*bra"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By algebraic process.

ALGEBRAIST
Al"ge*bra`ist, n.

Defn: One versed in algebra.

ALGEBRAIZE
Al"ge*bra*ize, v. t.

Defn: To perform by algebra; to reduce to algebraic form.

ALGERIAN
Al*ge"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Algeria.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Algeria.

ALGERINE
Al`ge*rine", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Algiers or Algeria.

ALGERINE
Al`ge*rine", n.

Defn: A native or one of the people of Algiers or Algeria. Also, a
pirate.

ALGID
Al"gid, a. Etym: [L. algidus cold, fr. algere to be cold: cf. F.
algide.]

Defn: Cold; chilly. Bailey. Algid cholera (Med.), Asiatic cholera.

ALGIDITY
Al*gid"i*ty, n.

Defn: Chilliness; coldness; especially (Med.),

Defn: coldness and collapse.

ALGIDNESS
Al"gid*ness, n.

Defn: Algidity. [Obs.]

ALGIFIC
Al*gif"ic, a. Etym: [L. algificus, fr. algus cold + facere to make.]

Defn: Producing cold.

ALGIN
Al"gin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance resembling gelatin, obtained from
certain algæ.

ALGOID
Al"goid, a. Etym: [L. alga + -oid.]

Defn: Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga.

ALGOL
Al"gol, n. Etym: [Ar. al-gh destruction, calamity, fr. ghala to take
suddenly, destroy.] (Astron.)

Defn: A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus,
remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness.

ALGOLOGICAL
Al`go*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to algology; as, algological specimens.

ALGOLOGIST
Al*gol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One learned about algæ; a student of algology.

ALGOLOGY
Al*gol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. alga seaweed + -logy.] (Bot.)

Defn: The study or science of algæ or seaweeds.

ALGOMETER
Al*gom"e*ter, n. [Gr.  pain + -meter.] (Psychol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring sensations of pain due to pressure.
It has a piston rod with a blunted tip which is pressed against the
skin. -- Al*gom"e*try (#), n. -- Al`go*met"ric (#), *met"ric*al (#),
a. --Al`go*met"ric*al*ly, adv.

ALGONKIAN
Al*gon"ki*an, a.

1. Var. of Algonquian.

2.  (Geol.) Pertaining to or designating a period or era recognized
by the United States Geological Survey and some other authorities,
between the Archæan and the Paleozoic, from both of which it is
generally separated in the record by unconformities. Algonkian rocks
are both sedimentary and igneous. Although fossils are rare, life
certainly existed in this period. -- n.

Defn: The Algonkian period or era, or system or group of systems.

ALGONQUIAN
Al*gon"qui*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to or designating the most extensive of the
linguistic families of North American Indians, their territory
formerly including practically all of Canada east of the 115th
meridian and south of Hudson's Bay and the part of the United States
east of the Mississippi and north of Tennessee and Virginia, with the
exception of the territory occupied by the northern Iroquoian tribes.
There are nearly 100,000 Indians of the Algonquian tribes, of which
the strongest are the Ojibwas (Chippewas), Ottawas, Crees,
Algonquins, Micmacs, and Blackfeet. -- n.

Defn: An Algonquian Indian.

ALGONQUIN; ALGONKIN
Al*gon"quin, Al*gon"kin, n.

Defn: One of a widely spread family of Indians, including many
distinct tribes, which formerly occupied most of the northern and
eastern part of North America. The name was originally applied to a
group of Indian tribes north of the River St. Lawrence.

ALGOR
Al"gor, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: Cold; chilliness.

ALGORISM; ALGORITHM
Al"go*rism, Al"go*rithm, n. Etym: [OE. algorism, algrim, augrim, OF.
algorisme, F. algorithme (cf. Sp. algoritmo, OSp. alguarismo, LL.
algorismus), fr. the Ar. al-Khowarezmi of Khowarezm, the modern
Khiwa, surname of Abu Ja'far Mohammed ben Musa, author of a work on
arithmetic early in the 9th century, which was translated into Latin,
such books bearing the name algorismus. The spelling with th is due
to a supposed connection with Gr.

1. The art of calculating by nine figures and zero.

2. The art of calculating with any species of notation; as, the
algorithms of fractions, proportions, surds, etc.

ALGOUS
Al"gous, a. Etym: [L. algosus, fr. alga seaweed.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the algæ, or seaweeds; abounding with, or
like, seaweed.

ALGUAZIL
Al`gua*zil", n. Etym: [Sp. alguacil, fr. Ar. alwazir the vizier. Cf.
Vizier.]

Defn: An inferior officer of justice in Spain; a warrant officer; a
constable. Prescott.

ALGUM
Al"gum, n.

Defn: Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable). 2 Chron. ii. 8.

ALHAMBRA
Al*ham"bra, n. Etym: [Ultimately fr. Ar. al the + hamra red; i. e.,
the red (sc. house).]

Defn: The palace of the Moorish kings at Granada.

ALHAMBRAIC; ALHAMBRESQUE
Al`ham*bra"ic, Al`ham*bresque", a.

Defn: Made or decorated after the fanciful style of the ornamentation
in the Alhambra, which affords an unusually fine exhibition of
Saracenic or Arabesque architecture.

ALHENNA
Al*hen"na, n.

Defn: See Henna.

ALIAS
A"li*as, adv. Etym: [L., fr. alius. See Else.] (Law)
(a) Otherwise; otherwise called; -- a term used in legal proceedings
to connect the different names of any one who has gone by two or
more, and whose true name is for any cause doubtful; as, Smith, alias
Simpson.
(b) At another time.

ALIAS
A"li*as, n.; pl. Aliases. Etym: [L., otherwise, at another
time.]Etym: (Law)
(a) A second or further writ which is issued after a first writ has
expired without effect.
(b) Another name; an assumed name.

ALIBI
Al"i*bi, n. Etym: [L., elsewhere, at another place. See Alias.] (Law)

Defn: The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for a
crime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place when
the alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove an
alibi.

ALIBILITY
Al`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Quality of being alible.

ALIBLE
Al"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. alibilis, fr. alere to nourish.]

Defn: Nutritive; nourishing.

ALICANT
Al"i*cant, n.

Defn: A kind of wine, formerly much esteemed; -- said to have been
made near Alicant, in Spain. J. Fletcher.

ALIDADE
Al"i*dade, n. Etym: [LL. alidada, alhidada, fr. Ar. al-'idada a sort
of rule: cf. F. alidade.]

Defn: The portion of a graduated instrument, as a quadrant or
astrolabe, carrying the sights or telescope, and showing the degrees
cut off on the arc of the instrument Whewell.

ALIEN
Al"ien, a. Etym: [OF. alien, L. alienus, fr. alius another; properly,
therefore, belonging to another. See Else.]

1. Not belonging to the same country, land, or government, or to the
citizens or subjects thereof; foreign; as, alien subjects, enemies,
property, shores.

2. Wholly different in nature; foreign; adverse; inconsistent (with);
incongruous; -- followed by from or sometimes by to; as, principles
alien from our religion.
An alien sound of melancholy. Wordsworth.
Alien enemy (Law), one who owes allegiance to a government at war
with ours. Abbott.

ALIEN
Al"ien, n.

1. A foreigner; one owing allegiance, or belonging, to another
country; a foreign-born resident of a country in which he does not
posses the privileges of a citizen. Hence, a stranger. See Alienage.

2. One excluded from certain privileges; one alienated or estranged;
as, aliens from God's mercies.
Aliens from the common wealth of Israel. Ephes. ii. 12.

ALIEN
Al"ien, v. t. Etym: [F. aliéner, L. alienare.]

Defn: To alienate; to estrange; to transfer, as property or
ownership. [R.] "It the son alien lands." Sir M. Hale.
The prince was totally aliened from all thoughts of . . . the
marriage. Clarendon.

ALIENABILITY
Al`ien*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being alienated. "The alienability of the
domain." Burke.

ALIENABLE
Al"ien*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aliénable.]

Defn: Capable of being alienated, sold, or transferred to another;
as, land is alienable according to the laws of the state.

ALIENAGE
Al"ien*age, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aliénage.]

1. The state or legal condition of being an alien.

Note: The disabilities of alienage are removable by naturalization or
by special license from the State of residence, and in some of the
United States by declaration of intention of naturalization. Kent.
Wharton.
Estates forfeitable on account of alienage. Story.

2. The state of being alienated or transferred to another. Brougham.

ALIENATE
Al"ien*ate, a. Etym: [L. alienatus, p. p. of alienare, fr. alienus.
See Alien, and cf. Aliene.]

Defn: Estranged; withdrawn in affection; foreign; -- with from.
O alienate from God. Milton.

ALIENATE
Al"ien*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alienated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alienating.]

1. To convey or transfer to another, as title, property, or right; to
part voluntarily with ownership of.

2. To withdraw, as the affections; to make indifferent of averse,
where love or friendship before subsisted; to estrange; to wean; --
with from.
The errors which . . . alienated a loyal gentry and priesthood from
the House of Stuart. Macaulay.
The recollection of his former life is a dream that only the more
alienates him from the realities of the present. I. Taylor.

ALIENATE
Al"ien*ate, n.

Defn: A stranger; an alien. [Obs.]

ALIENATION
Al`ien*a"tion, n. Etym: [F. aliénation, L. alienatio, fr. alienare,
fr. alienare. See Alienate.]

1. The act of alienating, or the state of being alienated.

2. (Law)

Defn: A transfer of title, or a legal conveyance of property to
another.

3. A withdrawing or estrangement, as of the affections.
The alienation of his heart from the king. Bacon.

4. Mental alienation; derangement of the mental faculties; insanity;
as, alienation of mind.

Syn.
 -- Insanity; lunacy; madness; derangement; aberration; mania;
delirium; frenzy; dementia; monomania. See Insanity.

ALIENATOR
Al"ien*a"tor, n.

Defn: One who alienates.

ALIENE
Al*iene, v. t.

Defn: To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, to
aliene an estate.

ALIENEE
Al"ien*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: One to whom the title of property is transferred; -- opposed to
alienor.
It the alienee enters and keeps possession. Blackstone.

ALIENISM
Al"ien*ism, n.

1. The status or legal condition of an alien; alienage.
The law was very gentle in the construction of the disability of
alienism. Kent.

2. The study or treatment of diseases of the mind.

ALIENIST
Al"ien*ist, n. Etym: [F. aliéniste.]

Defn: One who treats diseases of the mind. Ed. Rev.

ALIENOR
Al`ien*or", n. Etym: [OF. aliéneur.]

Defn: One who alienates or transfers property to another. Blackstone.

ALIETHMOID; ALIETHMOIDAL
Al`i*eth"moid, Al`i*eth*moid"al, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E.
ethomoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to expansions of the ethmoid bone or

ALIFE
A*life", adv. Etym: [Cf. lief dear.]

Defn: On my life; dearly. [Obs.] "I love that sport alife." Beau. &
Fl.

ALIFEROUS
A*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + -ferous.]

Defn: Having wings, winged; aligerous. [R.]

ALIFORM
Al"i*form, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + -form.]

Defn: Wing-shaped; winglike.

ALIGEROUS
A*lig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. aliger; ala wing + gerere to carry.]

Defn: Having wings; winged. [R.]

ALIGHT
A*light", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Alighted sometimes Alit; p. pr. & vb.
n. Alighting.] Etym: [OE. alihten, fr. AS. alihtan; pref. a- (cf.
Goth. us-, G. er-, orig. meaning out) + lihtan, to alight, orig. to
render light, to remove a burden from, fr. liht, leoht, light. See
Light, v. i.]

1. To spring down, get down, or descend, as from on horseback or from
a carriage; to dismount.

2. To descend and settle, lodge, rest, or stop; as, a flying bird
alights on a tree; snow alights on a roof.

3. To come or chance (upon). [R.]

ALIGHT
A*light", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + light.]

Defn: Lighted; lighted up; in a flame. "The lamps were alight."
Dickens.

ALIGN
A*lign", v. t. Etym: [F. aligner; à (L. ad) + ligne (L. linea) line.
See Line, and cf. Allineate.]

Defn: To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bring
into line; to aline.

ALIGN
A*lign", v. t.

Defn: To form in line; to fall into line.

ALIGNMENT
A*lign"ment, n. Etym: [F. alignement.]

1. The act of adjusting to a line; arrangement in a line or lines;
the state of being so adjusted; a formation in a straight line; also,
the line of adjustment; esp., an imaginary line to regulate the
formation of troops or of a squadron.

2. (Engin.)

Defn: The ground-plan of a railway or other road, in distinction from
the grades or profile.

ALIKE
A*like", a. Etym: [AS. onlic, gelic; pref. a + like.]

Defn: Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference.
[Now used only predicatively.]
The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. Ps. cxxxix. 12.

ALIKE
A*like", adv. Etym: [AS. gelice, onlice.]

Defn: In the same manner, form, or degree; in common; equally; as, we
are all alike concerne.

ALIKE-MINDED
A*like"-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Like-minded. [Obs.]

ALIMENT
Al"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. alimentum, fr. alere to nourish; akin to
Goth. alan to grow, Icel. ala to nourish: cf. F. aliment. See Old.]

1. That which nourishes; food; nutriment; anything which feeds or
adds to a substance in natural growth. Hence: The necessaries of life
generally: sustenance; means of support.
Aliments of theiBacon.

2. An allowance for maintenance. [Scot.]

ALIMENT
Al"i*ment, v. t.

1. To nourish; to support.

2. To provide for the maintenance of. [Scot.]

ALIMENTAL
Al`i*men"tal, a.

Defn: Supplying food; having the quality of nourishing; furnishing
the materials for natural growth; as, alimental sap.

ALIMENTALLY
A`li*men"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to serve for nourishment or food; nourishing quality. Sir
T. Browne.

ALIMENTARINESS
Al`i*men"ta*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alimentary; nourishing quality. [R.]

ALIMENTARY
Al`i*men"ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. alimentarius, fr. alimentum: cf. F.
alimentaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to aliment or food, or to the function of nutrition;
nutritious; alimental; as, alimentary substances. Alimentary canal,
the entire channel, extending from the mouth to the anus, by which
aliments are conveyed through the body, and the useless parts
ejected.

ALIMENTATION
Al`i*men*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alimentation, LL. alimentatio.]

1. The act or process of affording nutriment; the function of the
alimentary canal.

2. State or mode of being nourished. Bacon.

ALIMENTIVENESS
Al`i*men"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The instinct or faculty of appetite for food. [Chiefly in
Phrenol.]

ALIMONIOUS
Al`i*mo"ni*ous, a.

Defn: Affording food; nourishing. [R.] "Alimonious humors." Harvey.

ALIMONY
Al"i*mo*ny, n. Etym: [L. alimonia, alimonium, nourishment,
sustenance, fr. alere to nourish.]

1. Maintenance; means of living.

2. (Law)

Defn: An allowance made to a wife out of her husband's estate or
income for her support, upon her divorce or legal separation from
him, or during a suit for the same. Wharton. Burrill.

ALINASAL
Al`i*na"sal, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E. nasal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to expansions of the nasal bone or cartilage.

ALINE
A*line", v. t.

Defn: To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align.
Evelyn.

ALINEATION
A*lin`e*a"tion, n.

Defn: See Allineation.

ALINEMENT
A*line"ment, n.

Defn: Same as Alignment.

Note: [The Eng. form alinement is preferable to alignment, a bad
spelling of the French]. New Eng. Dict. (Murray).

ALINER
A*lin"er, n.

Defn: One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them into
line. Evelyn.

ALIOTH
Al"i*oth, n. Etym: [Ar. alyat the tail of a fat sheep.] (Astron.)

Defn: A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl in
the Dipper.

ALIPED
Al"i*ped, a. Etym: [L. alipes; ala wing + pes, pedis, foot: cf. F.
alipède.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Wing-footed, as the bat.
 -- n.

Defn: An animal whose toes are connected by a membrane, serving for a
wing, as the bat.

ALIPHATIC
Al`i*phat"ic, a. [Gr. , , oil, fat.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, fat; fatty; -- applied to
compounds having an openc-hain structure. The aliphatic compounds
thus include not only the fatty acids and other derivatives of the
paraffin hydrocarbons, but also unsaturated compounds, as the
ethylene and acetylene series.

ALIQUANT
Al"i*quant, a. Etym: [L. aliquantus some, moderate; alius other +
quantus how great: cf. F. aliquante.] (Math.)

Defn: An aliquant part of a number or quantity is one which does not
divide it without leaving a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquant part of
16. Opposed to aliquot.

ALIQUOT
Al"i*quot, a. Etym: [L. aliquot some, several; alius other + quot how
many: cf. F. aliquote.] (Math.)

Defn: An aliquot part of a number or quantity is one which will
divide it without a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquot part of 15.
Opposed to aliquant.

ALISEPTAL
Al`i*sep"tal, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E. septal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Relating to expansions of the nasal septum.

ALISH
Al"ish, a.

Defn: Like ale; as, an alish taste.

ALISPHENOID
Al`i*sphe"noid, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The alisphenoid bone.

ALISPHENOID; ALISPHENOIDAL
Al`i*sphe"noid, Al`i*sphe*noid"al, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E.
sphenoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to or forming the wing of the sphenoid; relating to
a bone in the base of the skull, which in the adult is often
consolidated with the sphenoid; as, alisphenoid bone; alisphenoid
canal.

ALITRUNK
Al"i*trunk, n. Etym: [L. ala wing + truncus trunk.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The segment of the body of an insect to which the wings are
attached; the thorax. Kirby.

ALITURGICAL
Al`i*tur"gic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + liturgical.] (Eccl.)

Defn: Applied to those days when the holy sacrifice is not offered.
Shipley.

ALIUNDE
A`li*un"de, adv. & a. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: From another source; from elsewhere; as, a case proved aliunde;
evidence aliunde.

ALIVE
A*live", a. Etym: [OE. on live, AS. on life in life; life being dat.
of lif life. See Life, and cf. Live, a.]

1. Having life, in opposition to dead; living; being in a state in
which the organs perform their functions; as, an animal or a plant
which is alive.

2. In a state of action; in force or operation; unextinguished;
unexpired; existent; as, to keep the fire alive; to keep the
affections alive.

3. Exhibiting the activity and motion of many living beings;
swarming; thronged.
The Boyne, for a quarter of a mile, was alive with muskets and green
boughs. Macaulay.

4. Sprightly; lively; brisk. Richardson.

5. Having susceptibility; easily impressed; having lively feelings,
as opposed to apathy; sensitive.
Tremblingly alive to nature's laws. Falconer.

6. Of all living (by way of emphasis).
Northumberland was the proudest man alive. Clarendon.

Note: Used colloquially as an intensive; as, man alive!

Note: Alive always follows the noun which it qualifies.

ALIZARI
A`li*za"ri, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. Ar. 'a juice extracted from a plant,
fr. 'a to press.] (Com.)

Defn: The madder of the Levant. Brande & C.

ALIZARIN
A*liz"a*rin, n. Etym: [F. alizarine, fr. alizari.] (Chem.)

Defn: A coloring principle, C14H6O2(OH)2, found in madder, and now
produced artificially from anthracene. It produces the Turkish reds.

ALKAHEST
Al"ka*hest, n. Etym: [LL. alchahest, F. alcahest, a word that has an
Arabic appearance, but was probably arbitrarily formed by
Paracelsus.]

Defn: The fabled "universal solvent" of the alchemists; a menstruum
capable of dissolving all bodies.
 -- Al`ka*hes"tic, a.

ALKALAMIDE
Al`kal*am"ide, n. Etym: [Alkali + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of compounds that may be regarded as ammonia in
which a part of the hydrogen has been replaced by basic, and another
part by acid, atoms or radicals.

ALKALESCENCE; ALKALESCENCY
Al`ka*les`cence, Al`ka*les"cen*cy, n.

Defn: A tendency to become alkaline; or the state of a substance in
which alkaline properties begin to be developed, or to predominant.
Ure.

ALKALESCENT
Al`ka*les"cent, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalescent.]

Defn: Tending to the properties of an alkali; slightly alkaline.

ALKALI
Al"ka*li, n.; pl. Alkalis or Alkalies. Etym: [F. alcali, ultimately
fr. Ar. alqali ashes of the plant saltwort, fr. qalay to roast in a
pan, fry.]

1. Soda ash; caustic soda, caustic potash, etc.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of caustic bases, such as soda, potash, ammoma,
and lithia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are solubility in
alcohol and water, uniting with oils and fats to form soap,
neutralizing and forming salts with acids, turning to brown several
vegetable yellows, and changing reddened litmus to blue. Fixed
alkalies, potash and soda.
 -- Vegetable alkalies. Same as Alkaloids.
 -- Volatile alkali, ammonia, so called in distinction from the fixed
alkalies.

ALKALIFIABLE
Al"ka*li*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalifiable.]

Defn: Capable of being alkalified, or converted into an alkali.

ALKALI FLAT
Alkali flat.

Defn: A sterile plain, containing an excess of alkali, at the bottom
of an undrained basin in an arid region; a playa.

ALKALIFY
Al"ka*li*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alkalified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alkalifying.] Etym: [Alkali + -fly: cf. F. alcalifier.]

Defn: To convert into an alkali; to give alkaline properties to.

ALKALIFY
Al"ka*li*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become changed into an alkali.

ALKALIMETER
Al`ka*lim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Alkali + -meter. cf. F. alcalimètre.]

Defn: An instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or the
quantity of alkali in a mixture.

ALKALIMETRIC; ALKALIMETRICAL
Al`ka*li*met"ric, Al`ka*li*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to alkalimetry.

ALKALIMETRY
Al`ka*lim"e*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalimètrie.] (Chem.)

Defn: The art or process of ascertaining the strength of alkalies, or
the quantity present in alkaline mixtures.

ALKALINE
Al"ka*line, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalin.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an alkali or to alkalies; having the
properties of an alkali. Alkaline earths, certain substances, as
lime, baryta, strontia, and magnesia, possessing some of the
qualities of alkalies.
 -- Alkaline metals, potassium, sodium, cæsium, lithium, rubidium.
 -- Alkaline reaction, a reaction indicating alkalinity, as by the
action on limits, turmeric, etc.

ALKALINITY
Al`ka*lin"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality which constitutes an alkali; alkaline property.
Thomson.

ALKALIOUS
Al*ka"li*ous, a.

Defn: Alkaline. [Obs.]

ALKALI SOIL
Alkali soil.

Defn: Any one of various soils found in arid and semiarid regions,
containing an unusual amount of soluble mineral salts which
effloresce in the form of a powder or crust (usually white) in dry
weather following rains or irrigation. The basis of these salts is
mainly soda with a smaller amount of potash, and usually a little
lime and  magnesia. Two main classes of alkali are commonly
distinguished: black alkali, which may be any alkaline carbonate, but
which practically consists of sodium carbonate (sal soda), which is
highly corrosive and destructive to vegetation; and white alkali,
characterized by the presence of sodium sulphate (Glauber's salt),
which is less injurious to vegetation. Black alkali is so called
because water containing it dissolves humus, forming a dark-colored
solution which, when it collects in puddles and evaporates, produces
characteristic black spots.

ALKALI WASTE
Alkali waste.

Defn: Waste material from the manufacture of alkali; specif., soda
waste.

ALKALIZATE
Al"ka*li*zate, a.

Defn: Alkaline. [Obs.] Boyle.

ALKALIZATE
Al"ka*li**zate, v. t.

Defn: To alkalizate. [R.] Johnson.

ALKALIZATION
Al`ka*li*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalisation.]

Defn: The act rendering alkaline by impregnating with an alkali; a
conferring of alkaline qualities.

ALKALIZE
Al"ka*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alkalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alkalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. alcaliser.]

Defn: To render alkaline; to communicate the properties of an alkali
to.

ALKALOID
Al"ka*loid, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base, especially one of a class of substances
occurring ready formed in the tissues of plants and the bodies of
animals.

Note: Alcaloids all contain nitrogen, carbon, and hydrogen, and many
of them also contain oxygen. They include many of the active
principles in plants; thus, morphine and narcotine are alkaloids
found in opium.

ALKALOID; ALKALOIDAL
Al"ka*loid, Al`ka*loid"al, a. Etym: [Alkali + -oid: cf. F.
alcaloïde.]

Defn: Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, alkali.

ALKANET
Al"ka*net, n. Etym: [Dim. of Sp. alcana, alhe, in which al is the Ar.
article. See Henna, and cf. Orchanet.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A dyeing matter extracted from the roots of Alkanna tinctoria,
which gives a fine deep red color.

2. (Bot.)
(a) A boraginaceous herb (Alkanna tinctoria) yielding the dye;
orchanet.
(b) The similar plant Anchusa officinalis; bugloss; also, the
American puccoon.

ALKARGEN
Al*kar"gen, n. Etym: [Alkarsin + oxygen.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Cacodylic acid.

ALKARSIN
Al*kar"sin, n. Etym: [Alkali + arsenic + -in.] (Chem.)

Defn: A spontaneously inflammable liquid, having a repulsive odor,
and consisting of cacodyl and its oxidation products; -- called also
Cadel's fuming liquid.

ALKAZAR
Al*ka"zar.

Defn: See Alcazar.

ALKEKENGI
Al`ke*ken"gi, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alkékenge, Sp. alquequenje, ultimately
fr. Ar. al-kakanj a kind of resin from Herat.] (Bot.)

Defn: An herbaceous plant of the nightshade family (Physalis
alkekengi) and its fruit, which is a well flavored berry, the size of
a cherry, loosely inclosed in a enlarged leafy calyx; -- also called
winter cherry, ground cherry, and strawberry tomato. D. C. Eaton.

ALKERMES
Al*ker"mes, n. Etym: [Ar. al-qirmiz kermes. See Kermes.] (Old
Pharmacy)

Defn: A compound cordial, in the form of a confection, deriving its
name from the kermes insect, its principal ingredient.

ALKORAN
Al"ko*ran, n.

Defn: The Mohammedan Scriptures. Same as Alcoran and Koran.

ALKORANIC
Al`ko*ran"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Alcoranic.

ALKORANIST
Al`ko*ran"ist, n.

Defn: Same as Alcoranist.

ALL
All, a. Etym: [OE. al, pl. alle, AS. eal, pl. ealle, Northumbrian
alle, akin to D. & OHG. al, Ger. all, Icel. allr. Dan. al, Sw. all,
Goth. alls; and perh. to Ir. and Gael. uile, W. oll.]

1. The whole quantity, extent, duration, amount, quality, or degree
of; the whole; the whole number of; any whatever; every; as, all the
wheat; all the land; all the year; all the strength; all happiness;
all abundance; loss of all power; beyond all doubt; you will see us
all (or all of us).
Prove all things: hold fast that which is good. 1 Thess. v. 21.

2. Any. [Obs.] "Without all remedy." Shak.

Note: When the definite article "the," or a possessive or a
demonstrative pronoun, is joined to the noun that all qualifies, all
precedes the article or the pronoun; as, all the cattle; all my
labor; all his wealth; all our families; all your citizens; all their
property; all other joys.

Note: This word, not only in popular language, but in the Scriptures,
often signifies, indefinitely, a large portion or number, or a great
part. Thus, all the cattle in Egypt died, all Judea and all the
region round about Jordan, all men held John as a prophet, are not to
be understood in a literal sense, but as including a large part, or
very great numbers.

3. Only; alone; nothing but.
I was born to speak all mirth and no matter. Shak.
All the whole, the whole (emphatically). [Obs.] "All the whole army."
Shak.

ALL
All, adv.

1. Wholly; completely; altogether; entirely; quite; very; as, all
bedewed; my friend is all for amusement. "And cheeks all pale."
Byron.

Note: In the ancient phrases, all too dear, all too much, all so
long, etc., this word retains its appropriate sense or becomes
intensive.

2. Even; just. (Often a mere intensive adjunct.) [Obs. or Poet.]
All as his straying flock he fed. Spenser.
A damsel lay deploring All on a rock reclined. Gay.
All to, or All-to. In such phrases as "all to rent," "all to break,"
"all-to frozen," etc., which are of frequent occurrence in our old
authors, the all and the to have commonly been regarded as forming a
compound adverb, equivalent in meaning to entirely, completely,
altogether. But the sense of entireness lies wholly in the word all
(as it does in "all forlorn," and similar expressions), and the to
properly belongs to the following word, being a kind of intensive
prefix (orig. meaning asunder and answering to the LG. ter-, HG. zer-
). It is frequently to be met with in old books, used without the
all. Thus Wyclif says, "The vail of the temple was to rent:" and of
Judas, "He was hanged and to-burst the middle:" i. e., burst in two,
or asunder.
 -- All along. See under Along.
 -- All and some, individually and collectively, one and all. [Obs.]
"Displeased all and some." Fairfax.
 -- All but. (a) Scarcely; not even. [Obs.] Shak. (b) Almost; nearly.
"The fine arts were all but proscribed." Macaulay.
 -- All hollow, entirely, completely; as, to beat any one all hollow.
[Low] -- All one, the same thing in effect; that is, wholly the same
thing.
 -- All over, over the whole extent; thoroughly; wholly; as, she is
her mother all over. [Colloq.] -- All the better, wholly the better;
that is, better by the whole difference.
 -- All the same, nevertheless. "There they [certain phenomena]
remain rooted all the same, whether we recognize them or not." J. C.
Shairp. "But Rugby is a very nice place all the same." T. Arnold.
 -- See also under All, n.

ALL
All, n.

Defn: The whole number, quantity, or amount; the entire thing;
everything included or concerned; the aggregate; the whole; totality;
everything or every person; as, our all is at stake.
Death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all. Shak.
All that thou seest is mine. Gen. xxxi. 43.

Note: All is used with of, like a partitive; as, all of a thing, all
of us. After all, after considering everything to the contrary;
nevertheless.
 -- All in all, a phrase which signifies all things to a person, or
everything desired; (also adverbially) wholly; altogether.
Thou shalt be all in all, and I in thee, Forever. Milton.
Trust me not at all, or all in all. Tennyson.
-- All in the wind (Naut.), a phrase denoting that the sails are
parallel with the course of the wind, so as to shake.
 -- All told, all counted; in all.
 -- And all, and the rest; and everything connected. "Bring our crown
and all." Shak.
 -- At all. (a) In every respect; wholly; thoroughly. [Obs.] "She is
a shrew at al(l)." Chaucer. (b) A phrase much used by way of
enforcement or emphasis, usually in negative or interrogative
sentences, and signifying in any way or respect; in the least degree
or to the least extent; in the least; under any circumstances; as, he
has no ambition at all; has he any property at all "Nothing at all. "
Shak. "It thy father at all miss me." 1 Sam. xx. 6.
 -- Over all, everywhere. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: All is much used in composition to enlarge the meaning, or add
force to a word. In some instances, it is completely incorporated
into words, and its final consonant is dropped, as in almighty,
already, always: but, in most instances, it is an adverb prefixed to
adjectives or participles, but usually with a hyphen, as, all-
bountiful, all-glorious, allimportant, all-surrounding, etc. In
others it is an adjective; as, allpower, all-giver. Anciently many
words, as, alabout, alaground, etc., were compounded with all, which
are now written separately.

ALL
All, conj. Etym: [Orig. all, adv., wholly: used with though or if,
which being dropped before the subjunctive left all as if in the
sense although.]

Defn: Although; albeit. [Obs.]
All they were wondrous loth. Spenser.

ALLA BREVE
Al`la bre"ve. Etym: [It., according to the breve.] (Old Church Music)

Defn: With one breve, or four minims, to measure, and sung faster
like four crotchets; in quick common time; -- indicated in the time
signature by

ALLAH
Al"lah, n. Etym: [ contr. fr. the article al the + ilah God.]

Defn: The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and the
Mohammedans generally.

ALL-A-MORT
All`-a-mort", a.

Defn: See Alamort.

ALLANITE
Al"lan*ite, n. Etym: [From T. Allan, who first distinguished it as a
species.] (min.)

Defn: A silicate containing a large amount of cerium. It is usually
black in color, opaque, and is related to epidote in form and
composition.

ALLANTOIC
Al`lan*to"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. allantoïque.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or contained in, the allantois. Allantoic acid.
(Chem.) See Allantoin.

ALLANTOID; ALLANTOIDAL
Al*lan"toid, Al`lan*toid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the allantois.

ALLANTOIDEA
Al`lan*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of Vertebrata in which the embryo develops an
allantois. It includes reptiles, birds, and mammals.

ALLANTOIN
Al*lan"to*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline, transparent, colorless substance found in the
allantoic liquid of the fetal calf; -- formerly called allantoic acid
and amniotic acid.

ALLANTOIS; ALLANTOID
Al*lan"to*is, Al*lan"toid, } n.. (Anat.)

Defn: A membranous appendage of the embryos of mammals, birds, and
reptiles, -- in mammals serving to connect the fetus with the parent;
the urinary vesicle.

ALLATRATE
Al"la*trate, v. i. Etym: [L. allatrare. See Latrate.]

Defn: To bark as a dog. [Obs.] Stubbes.

ALLAY
Al*lay", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Allaying.]
Etym: [OE. alaien, aleggen, to lay down, put down, humble, put an end
to, AS. alecgan; a- (cf. Goth. us-, G. er-, orig. meaning out) +
lecgan to lay; but confused with old forms of allege, alloy, alegge.
See Lay.]

1. To make quiet or put at rest; to pacify or appease; to quell; to
calm; as, to allay popular excitement; to allay the tumult of the
passions.

2. To alleviate; to abate; to mitigate; as, to allay the severity of
affliction or the bitterness of adversity.
It would allay the burning quality of that fell poison. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To alleviate; check; repress; assuage; appease; abate; subdue;
destroy; compose; soothe; calm; quiet. See Alleviate.

ALLAY
Al*lay", v. t.

Defn: To diminish in strength; to abate; to subside. "When the rage
allays." Shak.

ALLAY
Al*lay", n.

Defn: Alleviation; abatement; check. [Obs.]

ALLAY
Al*lay", n.

Defn: Alloy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALLAY
Al*lay", v. t.

Defn: To mix (metals); to mix with a baser metal; to alloy; to
deteriorate. [Archaic] Fuller.

ALLAYER
Al*lay"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, allays.

ALLAYMENT
Al*lay"ment, n.

Defn: An allaying; that which allays; mitigation. [Obs.]
The like allayment could I give my grief. Shak.

ALLECRET
Al"le*cret, n. Etym: [OF. alecret, halecret, hallecret.]

Defn: A kind of light armor used in the sixteenth century, esp. by
the Swiss. Fairholt.

ALLECT
Al*lect", v. t. Etym: [L. allectare, freq. of allicere, allectum.]

Defn: To allure; to entice. [Obs.]

ALLECTATION
Al`lec*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. allectatio.]

Defn: Enticement; allurement. [Obs.] Bailey.

ALLECTIVE
Al*lec"tive, a. Etym: [LL. allectivus.]

Defn: Alluring. [Obs.]

ALLECTIVE
Al*lec"tive, n.

Defn: Allurement. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

ALLEDGE
Al*ledge", v. t.

Defn: See Allege. [Obs.]

Note: This spelling, corresponding to abridge, was once the
prevailing one.

ALLEGATION
Al`le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. allegatio, fr. allegare, allegatum, to
send a message, cite; later, to free by giving reasons; ad + legare
to send, commission. Cf. Allege and Adlegation.]

1. The act of alleging or positively asserting.

2. That which is alleged, asserted, or declared; positive assertion;
formal averment
I thought their allegation but reasonable. Steele.

3. (Law)

Defn: A statement by a party of what he undertakes to prove, --
usually applied to each separate averment; the charge or matter
undertaken to be proved.

ALLEGE
Al*lege", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alleged; p. pr. & vb. n. Alleging.]
Etym: [OE. aleggen to bring forward as evidence, OF. esligier to buy,
prop. to free from legal difficulties, fr. an assumed LL. exlitigare;
L. ex + litigare to quarrel, sue (see Litigate). The word was
confused with L. allegare (see Allegation), and lex law. Cf. Allay.]

1. To bring forward with positiveness; to declare; to affirm; to
assert; as, to allege a fact.

2. To cite or quote; as, to allege the authority of a judge.
[Archaic]

3. To produce or urge as a reason, plea, or excuse; as, he refused to
lend, alleging a resolution against lending.

Syn.
 -- To bring forward; adduce; advance; assign; produce; declare;
affirm; assert; aver; predicate.

ALLEGE
Al*lege", v. t. Etym: [See Allay.]

Defn: To alleviate; to lighten, as a burden or a trouble. [Obs.]
Wyclif.

ALLEGEABLE
Al*lege"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being alleged or affirmed.
The most authentic examples allegeable in the case. South.

ALLEGEANCE
Al*lege"ance, n.

Defn: Allegation. [Obs.]

ALLEGEMENT
Al*lege"ment, n.

Defn: Allegation. [Obs.]
With many complaints and allegements. Bp. Sanderson.

ALLEGER
Al*leg"er, n.

Defn: One who affirms or declares.

ALLEGGE
Al*legge", v. t.

Defn: See Alegge and Allay. [Obs.]

ALLEGHENIAN; ALLEGHANIAN
Al`le*ghe"ni*an, a. Also Al`le*gha"ni*an. (Biogeography)

Defn: Pertaining to or designating the humid division of the
Transition zone extending across the northern United States from New
England to eastern Dakota, and including also most of Pennsylvania
and the mountainous region as far south as northern Georgia.

ALLEGHENY; ALLEGHANY
Al"le*ghe`ny, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the Allegheny Mountains, or the region where
they are situated. Also Al"le*gha`ny.

2.  [From the Allegheny River, Pennsylvania.] (Geol.) Pertaining to
or designating a subdivision of the Pennsylvanian coal measure.

ALLEGIANCE
Al*le"giance, n. Etym: [OE. alegeaunce; pref. a- + OF. lige, liege.
The meaning was influenced by L. ligare to bind, and even by lex,
legis, law. See Liege, Ligeance.]

1. The tie or obligation, implied or expressed, which a subject owes
to his sovereign or government; the duty of fidelity to one's king,
government, or state.

2. Devotion; loyalty; as, allegiance to science.

Syn.
 -- Loyalty; fealty.
 -- Allegiance, Loyalty. These words agree in expressing the general
idea of fidelity and attachment to the "powers that be." Allegiance
is an obligation to a ruling power. Loyalty is a feeling or sentiment
towards such power. Allegiance may exist under any form of
government, and, in a republic, we generally speak of allegiance to
the government, to the state, etc. In well conducted monarchies,
loyalty is a warm-hearted feeling of fidelity and obedience to the
sovereign. It is personal in its nature; and hence we speak of the
loyalty of a wife to her husband, not of her allegiance. In cases
where we personify, loyalty is more commonly the word used; as,
loyalty to the constitution; loyalty to the cause of virtue; loyalty
to truth and religion, etc.
Hear me, recreant, on thine allegiance hear me! Shak.
So spake the Seraph Abdiel, faithful found, . . . Unshaken,
unseduced, unterrified, His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal.
Milton.

ALLEGIANT
Al*le"giant, a.

Defn: Loyal. Shak.

ALLEGORIC; ALLEGORICAL
Al`le*gor"ic, Al`le*gor"ic*al, a. Etym: [F. allégorique, L.
allegorius, fr. Gr. Allegory.]

Defn: Belonging to, or consisting of, allegory; of the nature of an
allegory; describing by resemblances; figurative. "An allegoric
tale." Falconer. "An allegorical application." Pope.
Allegorical being . . . that kind of language which says one thing,
but means another. Max Miller.
Al`le*gor"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Al`le*gor"ic*al*ness, n.

ALLEGORIST
Al"le*go*rist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. allegoriste.]

Defn: One who allegorizes; a writer of allegory. Hume.

ALLEGORIZATION
Al`le*gor"i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of turning into allegory, or of understanding in an
allegorical sense.

ALLEGORIZE
Al"le*go*rize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allegorized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Allegorizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. allégoriser, fr. L. allegorizare.]

1. To form or turn into allegory; as, to allegorize the history of a
people.

2. To treat as allegorical; to understand in an allegorical sense;
as, when a passage in a writer may understood literally or
figuratively, he who gives it a figurative sense is said to
allegorize it.

ALLEGORIZE
Al"le*go*rize, v. t.

Defn: To use allegory. Holland.

ALLEGORIZER
Al"le*go*ri`zer, n.

Defn: One who allegorizes, or turns things into allegory; an
allegorist.

ALLEGORY
Al"le*go*ry, n.; pl. Allegories. Etym: [L. allegoria, Gr. allégorie.]

1. A figurative sentence or discourse, in which the principal subject
is described by another subject resembling it in its properties and
circumstances. The real subject is thus kept out of view, and we are
left to collect the intentions of the writer or speaker by the
resemblance of the secondary to the primary subject.

2. Anything which represents by suggestive resemblance; an emblem.

3. (Paint. & Sculpt.)

Defn: A figure representation which has a meaning beyond notion
directly conveyed by the object painted or sculptured.

Syn.
 -- Metaphor; fable.
 -- Allegory, Parable. "An allegory differs both from fable and
parable, in that the properties of persons are fictitiously
represented as attached to things, to which they are as it were
transferred. . . . A figure of Peace and Victory crowning some
historical personage is an allegory. "I am the Vine, ye are the
branches" [John xv. 1-6] is a spoken allegory. In the parable there
is no transference of properties. The parable of the sower [Matt.
xiii. 3-23] represents all things as according to their proper
nature. In the allegory quoted above the properties of the vine and
the relation of the branches are transferred to the person of Christ
and His apostles and disciples." C. J. Smith.

Note: An allegory is a prolonged metaphor. Bunyan's "Pilgrim's
Progress" and Spenser's "Faërie Queene" are celebrated examples of
the allegory.

ALLEGRESSE
Al`le`gresse", n. Etym: [F. allégresse, fr. L. alacer sprightly.]

Defn: Joy; gladsomeness.

ALLEGRETTO
Al`le*gret"to, a. Etym: [It., dim. of allegro.] (Mus.)

Defn: Quicker than andante, but not so quick as allegro.
 -- n.

Defn: A movement in this time.

ALLEGRO
Al*le"gro, a. Etym: [It., merry, gay, fr. L. alacer lively. Cf.
Aleger.] (Mus.)

Defn: Brisk, lively.
 -- n.

Defn: An allegro movement; a quick, sprightly strain or piece.

ALLELOMORPH
Al*le"lo*morph, n. [Gr.  of one another + Gr.  form.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of the pure unit characters commonly existing singly or in
pairs in the germ cells of Mendelian hybrids, and exhibited in
varying proportion among the organisms themselves. Allelomorphs which
under certain circumstances are themselves compound are called
hypallelomorphs. See Mendel's law. -- Al*le`lo*mor"phic (#), a.

As we know that the several unit characters are of such a nature that
any one of them is capable of independently displacing or being
displaced by one or more alternative characters taken singly, we may
recognize this fact by naming such characters allelomorphs.
Bateson.

ALLELUIA; ALLELUIAH
Al`le*lu"ia, Al`le*lu"iah, n. Etym: [L. alleluia, Gr. hall-yah. See
Hallelujah.]

Defn: An exclamation signifying Praise ye Jehovah. Hence: A song of
praise to God. See Hallelujah, the commoner form.
I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, Alleluia.
Rev. xix. 1.

ALLEMANDE
Al"le*mande", n. Etym: [F., fr. allemand German.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A dance in moderate twofold time, invented by the French in the
reign of Louis XIV.; -- now mostly found in suites of pieces, like
those of Bach and Handel.

2. A figure in dancing.

ALLEMANNIC
Al`le*man"nic, a.

Defn: See Alemannic.

ALLENARLY
Al*len"ar*ly, adv. Etym: [All + anerly singly, fr. ane one.]

Defn: Solely; only. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

ALLER
Al"ler, a. Etym: [For ealra, the AS. gen. pl. of eal all.]

Defn: Same as Alder, of all. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALLERION
Al*le"ri*on, n. Etym: [F. alérion, LL. alario a sort of eagle; of
uncertain origin.] (Her.)

Defn: Am eagle without beak or feet, with expanded wings. Burke.

ALLEVIATE
Al*le"vi*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alleviated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alleviating.] Etym: [LL. alleviare, fr. L. ad + levis light. See
Alegge, Levity.]

1. To lighten or lessen the force or weight of. [Obs.]
Should no others join capable to alleviate the expense. Evelyn.
Those large bladders . . . conduce much to the alleviating of the
body [of flying birds]. Ray.

2. To lighten or lessen (physical or mental troubles); to mitigate,
or make easier to be endured; as, to alleviate sorrow, pain, care,
etc. ; -- opposed to aggravate.
The calamity of the want of the sense of hearing is much alleviated
by giving the use of letters. Bp. Horsley.

3. To extenuate; to palliate. [R.]
He alleviates his fault by an excuse. Johnson.

Syn.
 -- To lessen; diminish; soften; mitigate; assuage; abate; relieve;
nullify; allay.
 -- To Alleviate, Mitigate, Assuage, Allay. These words have in
common the idea of relief from some painful state; and being all
figurative, they differ in their application, according to the image
under which this idea is presented. Alleviate supposes a load which
is lightened or taken off; as, to alleviate one's cares. Mitigate
supposes something fierce which is made mild; as, to mitigate one's
anguish. Assuage supposes something violent which is quieted; as, to
assuage one's sorrow. Allay supposes something previously excited,
but now brought down; as, to allay one's suffering or one's thirst.
To alleviate the distresses of life; to mitigate the fierceness of
passion or the violence of grief; to assuage angry feeling; to allay
wounded sensibility.

ALLEVIATION
Al*le`vi*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. alleviatio.]

1. The act of alleviating; a lightening of weight or severity;
mitigation; relief.

2. That which mitigates, or makes more tolerable.
I have not wanted such alleviations of life as friendship could
supply. Johnson.

ALLEVIATIVE
Al*le"vi*a*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to alleviate.
 -- n.

Defn: That which alleviates.

ALLEVIATOR
Al*le"vi*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, alleviaties.

ALLEVIATORY
Al*le"vi*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Alleviative. Carlyle.

ALLEY
Al"ley, n.; pl. Alleys. Etym: [OE. aley, alley, OF. alée, F. allée, a
going, passage, fr. OE. aler, F. aller, to go; of uncertain origin:
cf. Prov. anar, It. andare, Sp. andar.]

1. A narrow passage; especially a walk or passage in a garden or
park, bordered by rows of trees or bushes; a bordered way.
I know each lane and every alley green. Milton.

2. A narrow passage or way in a city, as distinct from a public
street. Gay.

3. A passageway between rows of pews in a church.

4. (Persp.)

Defn: Any passage having the entrance represented as wider than the
exit, so as to give the appearance of length.

5. The space between two rows of compositors' stands in a printing
office.

ALLEY
Al"ley, n.; pl. Alleys. Etym: [A contraction of alabaster, of which
it was originally made.]

Defn: A choice taw or marble. Dickens.

ALLEYED
Al"leyed, a.

Defn: Furnished with alleys; forming an alley. "An alleyed walk." Sir
W. Scott.

ALLEYWAY
Al"ley*way` n.

Defn: An alley.

ALL FOOLS' DAY
All" Fools' Day`.

Defn: The first day of April, a day on which sportive impositions are
practiced.
The first of April, some do say, Is set apart for All Fools' Day.
Poor Robin's Almanack (1760).

ALLFOURS
All`fours". Etym: [All + four (cards).]

Defn: A game at cards, called "High, Low, Jack, and the Game."

ALL FOURS
All` fours" Etym: [formerly, All` four".]

Defn: All four legs of a quadruped; or the two legs and two arms of a
person. To be, go, or run, on all fours (Fig.), to be on the same
footing; to correspond (with) exactly; to be alike in all the
circumstances to be considered. "This example is on all fours with
the other." "No simile can go on all fours." Macaulay.

ALL HAIL
All` hail". Etym: [All + hail, interj.]

Defn: All health; -- a phrase of salutation or welcome.

ALL-HAIL
All`-hail", v. t.

Defn: To salute; to greet. [Poet.]
Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from the king,
who all-hailed me "Thane of Cawdor." Shak.

ALLHALLOND
All`hal"lond, n.

Defn: Allhallows. [Obs.] Shak.

ALLHALLOW
All`hal"low.

Defn: The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.

ALLHALLOW; ALLHALLOWS
All`hal"low, All`hal"lows, n.

1. All the saints (in heaven). [Obs.]

2. All Saints' Day, November 1st. [Archaic]

ALLHALLOW EVE
All`hal"low eve` (ev`).

Defn: The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.

ALLHALLOWMAS
All`hal"low*mas, n.

Defn: The feast of All Saints.

ALLHALLOWN
All`hal"lown, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the time of Allhallows. [Obs.] "Allhallown
summer." Shak. (i. e., late summer; "Indian Summer").

ALLHALLOWTIDE
All`hal"low*tide`, n. Etym: [AS. tid time.]

Defn: The time at or near All Saints, or November 1st.

ALLHEAL
All"heal, n.

Defn: A name popularly given to the officinal valerian, and to some
other plants.

ALLIABLE
Al*li"a*ble, a.

Defn: Able to enter into alliance.

ALLIACEOUS
Al`li*a"ceous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Allium, or garlic, onions, leeks,
etc.; having the smell or taste of garlic or onions.

ALLIANCE
Al*li"ance, n. Etym: [OE. aliaunce, OF. aliance, F. alliance, fr. OF.
alier, F. allier. See Ally, and cf. LL. alligantia.]

1. The state of being allied; the act of allying or uniting; a union
or connection of interests between families, states, parties, etc.,
especially between families by marriage and states by compact,
treaty, or league; as, matrimonial alliances; an alliance between
church and state; an alliance between France and England.

2. Any union resembling that of families or states; union by
relationship in qualities; affinity.
The alliance of the principles of the world with those of the gospel.
C. J. Smith.
The alliance . . . between logic and metaphysics. Mansel.

3. The persons or parties allied. Udall.

Syn.
 -- Connection; affinity; union; confederacy; confederation; league;
coalition.

ALLIANCE
Al*li"ance, v. t.

Defn: To connect by alliance; to ally. [Obs.]

ALLIANT
Al*li"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alliant, p. pr.]

Defn: An ally; a confederate. [Obs. & R.] Sir H. Wotton.

ALLICE; ALLIS
Al"lice, Al"lis, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European shad (Clupea vulgaris); allice shad. See Alose.

ALLICIENCY
Al*li"cien*cy, n.

Defn: Attractive power; attractiveness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ALLICIENT
Al*li"cient, a. Etym: [L. alliciens, p. pr. of allicere to allure; ad
+ lacere to entice.]

Defn: That attracts; attracting.
 -- n.

Defn: That attracts. [Rare or Obs.]

ALLIED
Al*lied", a.

Defn: United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally.

ALLIGATE
Al*li*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. alligatus, p. p. of alligare. See Ally.]

Defn: To tie; to unite by some tie.
Instincts alligated to their nature. Sir M. Hale.

ALLIGATION
Al`li*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. alligatio.]

1. The act of tying together or attaching by some bond, or the state
of being attached. [R.]

2. (Arith.)

Defn: A rule relating to the solution of questions concerning the
compounding or mixing of different ingredients, or ingredients of
different qualities or values.

Note: The rule is named from the method of connecting together the
terms by certain ligature-like signs. Alligation is of two kinds,
medial and alternate; medial teaching the method of finding the price
or quality of a mixture of several simple ingredients whose prices
and qualities are known; alternate, teaching the amount of each of
several simple ingredients whose prices or qualities are known, which
will be required to make a mixture of given price or quality.

ALLIGATOR
Al"li*ga`tor, n. Etym: [Sp. el lagarto the lizard (el lagarto de
Indias, the cayman or American crocodile), fr. L. lacertus, lacerta,
lizard. See Lizard.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large carnivorous reptile of the Crocodile family, peculiar
to America. It has a shorter and broader snout than the crocodile,
and the large teeth of the lower jaw shut into pits in the upper jaw,
which has no marginal notches. Besides the common species of the
southern United States, there are allied species in South America.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: Any machine with strong jaws, one of which opens like the
movable jaw of an alligator; as, (a) (Metal Working)

Defn: a form of squeezer for the puddle ball;
(b) (Mining) a rock breaker;
(c) (Printing) a kind of job press, called also alligator press.
Alligator apple (Bot.), the fruit of the Anona palustris, a West
Indian tree. It is said to be narcotic in its properties. Loudon.
 -- Alligator fish (Zoöl.), a marine fish of northwestern America
(Podothecus acipenserinus).
 -- Alligator gar (Zoöl.), one of the gar pikes (Lepidosteus spatula)
found in the southern rivers of the United States. The name is also
applied to other species of gar pikes.
 -- Alligator pear (Bot.), a corruption of Avocado pear. See Avocado.
 -- Alligator snapper, Alligator tortoise, Alligator turtle (Zoöl.),
a very large and voracious turtle (Macrochelys lacertina) in habiting
the rivers of the southern United States. It sometimes reaches the
weight of two hundred pounds. Unlike the common snapping turtle, to
which the name is sometimes erroneously applied, it has a scaly head
and many small scales beneath the tail. This name is sometimes given
to other turtles, as to species of Trionyx.
 -- Alligator wood, the timber of a tree of the West Indies (Guarea
Swartzii).