

CYCLE
Cy"cle (s"k'l), v. i. [imp. & p.p. Cycled. (-k'ld); p.pr. & vb. n.
Cycling (-kl.]

1. To pass through a cycle of changes; to recur in cycles. Tennyson.
Darwin.

2. To ride a bicycle, tricycle, or other form of cycle.

CYCLIC; CYCLICAL
Cyc"lic (sk"lk or s"klk), Cyc"lic*al (sk"l-kal), a. Etym: [Cf. F.
cycluque, Gr.Cycle.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cycle or circle; moving in cycles; as,
cyclical time. Coleridge. Cyclic chorus, the chorus which performed
the songs and dances of the dithyrambic odes at Athens, dancing round
the altar of Bacchus in a circle.
 -- Cyclic poets, certain epic poets who followed Homer, and wrote
merely on the Trojan war and its heroes; -- so called because keeping
within the circle of a singe subject. Also, any series or coterie of
poets writing on one subject. Milman.

CYCLIDE
Cy"clide (s"kld), n. Etym: [Gr. (Geom.)

Defn: A surface of the fourth degree, having certain special
relations to spherical surfaces. The tore or anchor ring is one of
the cyclides.

CYCLING
Cy"cling (s"klng), n.

Defn: The act, art, or practice, of riding a cycle, esp. a bicycle or
tricycle.

CYCLIST
Cy"clist (s"klst), n.

Defn: A cycler.

CYCLO-
Cy"clo- (s"kl-). Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form meaning circular, of a circle or wheel.

CYCLOBRANCHIATE
Cy`clo*bran"chi*ate (s`kl-brn"k-t), a. Etym: [Cyclo- + branchiate.]
(Zoöl)

Defn: Having the gills around the margin of the body, as certain
limpets.

CYCLOGANOID
Cy`clo*ga"noid (s`kl-g"noid or -gn"oid), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cycloganoidei.

CYCLOGANOID
Cy`clo*ga"noid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cycloganoidei.

CYCLOGANOIDEI
Cy`clo*ga*noi"de*i (s"kl-g-noi"d-), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
ganoidei. See Ganoid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of ganoid fishes, having cycloid scales. The bowfin
(Amia calva) is a living example.

CYCLOGRAPH
Cy"clo*graph (s"kl-grf), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + -graph.]

Defn: See Arcograph.

CYCLOID
Cy"cloid (s"kloid), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + -oid: cf. F. cycloïde.]
(Geom.)

Defn: A curve generated by a point in the plane of a circle when the
circle is rolled along a straight line, keeping always in the same
plane.

Note: The common cycloid is the curve described when the generating
point (p) is on the circumference of the generating circle; the
curtate cycloid, when that point lies without the circumference; the
prolate or inflected cycloid, when the generating point (p) lies
within that circumference.

CYCLOID
Cy"cloid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Cycloidei. Cycloid scale (Zoöl.), a
fish scale which is thin and shows concentric lines of growth,
without serrations on the margin.

CYCLOID
Cy"cloid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cycloidei.

CYCLOIDAL
Cy*cloid"al (-al), a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a cycloid; as, the cycloidal
space is the space contained between a cycloid and its base.
Cycloidal engine. See Geometric lathe.

CYCLOIDEI
Cy*cloi"de*i (s-kloi"d-), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of fishes, formerly proposed by Agassiz, for those
with thin, smooth scales, destitute of marginal spines, as the
herring and salmon. The group is now regarded as artificial.

CYCLOIDIAN
Cy*cloid"i*an (s-kloid"-an), a. & n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as 2d and 3d Cycloid.

CYCLOMETER
Cy*clom"e*ter (s-klm"-tr), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + -meter.]

Defn: A contrivance for recording the revolutions of a wheel, as of a
bicycle.

CYCLOMETRY
Cy*clom"e*try (-tr), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + -metry: cf. F. cyclom.]
(Geom.)

Defn: The art of measuring circles.

CYCLONE
Cy"clone (s"kln), n. Etym: [Gr. (Meteor.)

Defn: A violent storm, often of vast extent, characterized by high
winds rotating about a calm center of low atmospheric pressure. This
center moves onward, often with a velocity of twenty or thirty miles
an hour.

Note: The atmospheric disturbance usually accompanying a cyclone,
marked by an onward moving area of high pressure, is called an
anticyclone.

CYCLONE CELLAR; CYCLONE PIT
Cyclone cellar or pit .

Defn: A cellar or excavation used for refuge from a cyclone, or
tornado. [Middle U. S.]

CYCLONIC
Cy*clon"ic (s-kln"k), a.

Defn: Pertaining to a cyclone.

CYCLONOSCOPE
Cy*clo"no*scope, n.  [Cyclone + -scope.]

Defn: An apparatus to assist in locating the center of a cyclone.

CYCLOP
Cy"clop (s"klp), n.

Defn: See Note under Cyclops, 1.

CYCLOPEAN
Cy`clo*pe"an (s`kl-p"an), a. Etym: [L. Cyclopeus, Gr. cyclopeen.]

Defn: Pertaining to the Cyclops; characteristic of the Cyclops; huge;
gigantic; vast and rough; massive; as, Cyclopean labors; Cyclopean
architecture.

CYCLOPEDIA; CYCLOPAEDIA
Cy`clo*pe"di*a Cy`clo*pae"di*a (s`kl-p"d-), n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.
ky`klos circle + paidei`a the bringing up of a child, education,
erudition, fr. paidey`ein to bring up a child. See Cycle, and cf.
Encyclopedia, Pedagogue.]

Defn: The circle or compass of the arts and sciences (originally, of
the seven so-called liberal arts and sciences); circle of human
knowledge. Hence, a work containing, in alphabetical order,
information in all departments of knowledge, or on a particular
department or branch; as, a cyclopedia of the physical sciences, or
of mechanics. See Encyclopedia.

CYCLOPEDIC
Cy`clo*ped"ic (s`kl-pd"k or -p"dk), a.

Defn: Belonging to the circle of the sciences, or to a cyclopedia; of
the nature of a cyclopedia; hence, of great range, extent, or amount;
as, a man of cyclopedic knowledge.

CYCLOPEDIST
Cy`clo*pe"dist (-p"dst), n.

Defn: A maker of, or writer for, a cyclopedia.

CYCLOPIC
Cy*clop"ic (s-klp"k), a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the Cyclops; Cyclopean.

CYCLOPS
Cy"clops (s"klps), n. sing. & pl. Etym: [L. Cyclops, Gr.

1. (Gr. Myth.)

Defn: One of a race of giants, sons of Neptune and Amphitrite, having
but one eye, and that in the middle of the forehead. They were fabled
to inhabit Sicily, and to assist in the workshops of Vulcan, under
Mt. Etna.

Note: Pope, in his translation of the "Odyssey," uniformly spells
this word Cyclop, when used in the singular.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of minute Entomostraca, found both in fresh and salt
water. See Copepoda.

3. A portable forge, used by tinkers, etc.

CYCLORAMA
Cy`clo*ra"ma (s`kl-r"m or -r"m), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + Gr.

Defn: A pictorial view which is extended circularly, so that the
spectator is surrounded by the objects represented as by things in
nature. The realistic effect is increased by putting, in the space
between the spectator and the picture, things adapted to the scene
represented, and in some places only parts of these objects, the
completion of them being carried out pictorially.

CYCLOSCOPE
Cy"clo*scope (s"kl-skp), n. Etym: [Cyclo- + -scope.]

Defn: A machine for measuring at any moment velocity of rotation, as
of a wheel of a steam engine. Knight.

CYCLOSIS
Cy*clo"sis (s-kl"ss), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cyclone.] (Bot.)

Defn: The circulation or movement of protoplasmic granules within a
living vegetable cell.

CYCLOSTOMATA
Cy`clo*stom"a*ta (s`kl-stm"-t)

Defn:

CYCLOSTOME
Cy*clos"to*me, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Bryozoa, in which the cells have circular
apertures.

CYCLOSTOME; CYCLOSTOMOUS
Cy"clo*stome (s"kl-stm), Cy*clos"to*mous (s-kls"t-ms), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Cyclostomi.

CYCLOSTOMI
Cy*clos"to*mi (s-kls"t-m), n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Cyclostomata.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A glass of fishes having a suckerlike mouth, without jaws, as
the lamprey; the Marsipobranchii.

CYCLOSTYLAR
Cy`clo*sty"lar (s`kl-st"r), a. Etym: [Cyclo- + Gr.

Defn: Relating to a structure composed of a circular range of
columns, without a core or building within. Weale.

CYCLOSTYLE
Cy"clo*style (s"kl-stl), n. Etym: [Cyclo + style.]

Defn: A contrivance for producing manifold copies of writing or
drawing. The writing or drawing is done with a style carrying a small
wheel at the end which makes minute punctures in the paper, thus
converting it into a stencil. Copies are transferred with an inked
roller.

CYDER
Cy"der (s"dr), n.

Defn: See Cider. [Archaic]

CYDONIN
Cy*do"nin (s-d"nn), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar mucilaginous substance extracted from the seeds of
the quince (Cydonia vulgaris), and regarded as a variety of amylose.

CYGNET
Cyg"net (sg"nt), n. Etym: [Dim. of F. cygne swan, L. cycnus. cygnus,
fr. Gr. cugne seems to be an etymological spelling of OF. cisne, fr.
LL. cecinus, cicinus, perh. ultimately also fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young swan. Shak.

CYGNUS
Cyg"nus (sg"ns), n. Etym: [L., a swan.] (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation of the northern hemisphere east of, or
following, Lyra; the Swan.

CYLINDER
Cyl"in*der (sl"n-dr), n. Etym: [F. cylindre, OF. cilindre, L.
cylindrus, fr. Gr. Calender the machine.]

1. (Geom.)
(a) A solid body which may be generated by the rotation of a
parallelogram round one its sides; or a body of rollerlike form, of
which the longitudinal section is oblong, and the cross section is
circular.
(b) The space inclosed by any cylindrical surface. The space may be
limited or unlimited in length.

2. Any hollow body of cylindrical form, as:
(a) The chamber of a steam engine in which the piston is moved by the
force of steam.
(b) The barrel of an air or other pump.
(c) (Print.) The revolving platen or bed which produces the
impression or carries the type in a cylinder press.
(d) The bore of a gun; the turning chambered breech of a revolver.

3. The revolving square prism carryng the cards in a Jacquard loom.
Cylinder axis. (Anat.) SeeAxis cylinder, under Axis.
 -- Cylinder engine (Paper Making), a machine in which a cylinder
takes up the pulp and delivers it in a continuous sheet to the
dryers.
 -- Cylinder escapement. See Escapement.
 -- Cylinder glass. See Glass.
 -- Cylinder mill. See Roller mill.
 -- Cylinder press. See Press.

CYLINDRACEOUS
Cyl`in*dra"ceous (-dr"shs), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cylyndrac]

Defn: Cylindrical, or approaching a cylindrical form.

CYLINDRIC; CYLINDRICAL
Cy*lin"dric (s-ln"drk), Cy*lin"dric*al (-dr-kal), a. Etym:
[Gr.cylindrique.]

Defn: Having the form of a cylinder, or of a section of its convex
surface; partaking of the properties of the cylinder. Cylindrical
lens, a lens having one, or more than one, cylindrical surface.
 -- Cylindric, or Cylindrical, surface (Geom.), a surface described
by a straight line that moves according to any law, but so as to be
constantly parallel to a given line.
 -- Cylindrical vault. (Arch.) See under Vault, n.

CYLINDRICALLY
Cy*lin"dric*al*ly (s-ln"dr-kal-l), adv.

Defn: In the manner or shape of a cylinder; so as to be cylindrical.

CYLINDRICITY
Cyl*`in*dric"i*ty (sl`n-drs"-t), n

Defn: The quality or condition of being cylindrical.

CYLINDRIFORM
Cy*lin"dri*form (s-ln"dr-frm), a. Etym: [L. cylindrus (Gr. -form:
cf.F. cylindriforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a cylinder.

CYLINDROID
Cyl"in*droid (sl"n-droid), n. Etym: [Gr. -oid: cf. F. cylindro.]

1. A solid body resembling a right cylinder, but having the bases or
ends elliptical.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: A certain surface of the third degree, described by a moving
straight line; -- used to illustrate the motions of a rigid body and
also the forces acting on the body.

CYLINDROMETRIC
Cy*lin`dro*met"ric (s-ln`dr-mt"rk), a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Belonging to a scale used in measuring cylinders.

CYMA
Cy"ma (s"m) n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Cyme]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A member or molding of the cornice, the profile of which is
wavelike in form.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A cyme. See Cyme. Cyma recta, or Cyma, a cyma, hollow in its
upper part and swelling below.
 -- Cyma reversa, or Ogee, a cyma swelling out on the upper part and
hollow below.

CYMAR
Cy*mar" (s-mr"), n. Etym: [F. simarre. See Chimere.]

Defn: A sight covering; a scarf. See Simar.
Her body shaded with a light cymar. Dryden.

CYMATIUM
Cy*ma"ti*um (s-m"sh-m), n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: A capping or crowning molding in classic architecture.

CYMBAL
Cym"bal (sm"bal). n. Etym: [OE. cimbale, simbale, OF. cimbale, F.
cymbale, L. cymbalum, fr. Gr. kubha pot. Cf. Chime.]

1. A musical instrument used by the ancients. It is supposed to have
been similar to the modern kettle drum, though perhaps smaller.

2. A musical instrument of brass, shaped like a circular dish or a
flat plate, with a handle at the back; -- used in pairs to produce a
sharp ringing sound by clashing them together.

Note: In orchestras, one cymbal is commonly attached to the bass
drum, and the other heid in the drummer's left hand, while his right
hand uses the drumstick.

3. A musical instrument used by gypsies and others, made of steel
wire, in a triangular form, on which are movable rings.

CYMBALIST
Cym"bal*ist, n.

Defn: A performer upon cymbals.

CYMBIFORM
Cym"bi*form (sm"b-frm),, a. Etym: [L. cymba boat (Gr. -form: cf. F.
cymbiforme.]

Defn: Shaped like a boat; (Bot.) elongated and having the upper
surface decidedly concave, as the glumes of many grasses.

CYMBIUM
Cym"bi*um (sm"b-m), n. Etym: [L., a small cup, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine univalve shells; the gondola.

CYME
Cyme (sm), n. Etym: [L. cyma the young sprount of a cabbage, fr. Gr.
(Bot.)

Defn: A flattish or convex flower cluster, of the centrifugal or
determinate type, differing from a corymb chiefly in the order of the
opening of the blossoms.

CYMENE
Cy"mene (s"mn), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, of
pleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol,
camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen.

CYMENOL
Cy"me*nol (s"m-nl), n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Carvacrol.

CYMIDINE
Cy"mi*dine ( s"m-dn or -dn; 104), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A liquid organic base, C10H13.NH2, derived from cymene.

CYMIFEROUS
Cy*mif"er*ous (s-mf"r-s), a. Etym: [Cyme + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing cymes.

CYMLING; CYMBLING
Cym"ling, Cymb"ling (sm"lng), n.

Defn: A scalloped or "pattypan" variety of summer squash.

CYMOGENE
Cy"mo*gene (s"m-jn), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A highly volatile liquid, condensed by cold and pressure from
the first products of the distillation of petroleum; -- used for
producing low temperatures.

CYMOGRAPH
Cy"mo*graph, n.  [Cyma + -graph.]
 (a) An instrument for making tracings of the outline or contour of
profiles, moldings, etc.
 (b) Var. of Kymograph. --Cy`mo*graph"ic (#), a.

CYMOGRAPH
Cy"mo*graph, v. t.

Defn: To trace or copy with a cymograph.

CYMOID
Cy"moid (s"moid), a. Etym: [Cyme + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a cyme.

CYMOMETER
Cy*mom"e*ter, n. [Gr.  wave -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for exhibiting and measuring wave motion; specif.
(Elec.),

Defn: an instrument for determining the frequency of electic wave
oscillations, esp. in connection with wireless telegraphy.

CYMOPHANE
Cym"o*phane (sm"-fn or s"m-), n. Etym: [Gr.cymophane. So named in
allusion to a peculiar opalescence often seen in it.] (Min.)

Defn: See Chrysoberyl.

CYMOPHANOUS
Cy*moph"a*nous (s-mf"-ns or s-), a.

Defn: Having a wavy, floating light; opalescent; chatoyant.

CYMOSCOPE
Cy"mo*scope, n. [Gr.  wave + -scope.] (Elec.)

Defn: Any device for detecting the presence of electric waves. The
influence of electric waves on the resistance of a particular kind of
electric circuit, on the magnetization of steel, on the polarization
of an electrolytic cell, or on the electric condition of a vacuum has
been applied in the various cymoscopes.

CYMOSE; CYMOUS
Cy"mose (s"ms; 277), Cy"mous (s"ms), a. Etym: [L. cymosus full of
shoots: cf. FF. cymeux. See Cyme.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the nature of a cyme, or derived from a cyme; bearing,
or pertaining to, a cyme or cymes.

CYMRIC
Cym"ric (km"rk), a. Etym: [W. Cymru Wales.]

Defn: Welsh.
 -- n.

Defn: The Welsh language. [Written also Kymric.]

CYMRY
Cym"ry (-r), n. Etym: [W., pl.]

Defn: A collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called by
themselves . [Written also Cymri, Cwmry, Kymry, etc.]

CYMULE
Cy"mule (s"ml), n. Etym: [Cf. L. cymula a tender sprout, dim. of
cyna. See Cyme.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small cyme, or one of very few flowers.

CYNANCHE
Cy*nan"che (s-nn"k), n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Quinsy.] (Med.)

Defn: Any disease of the tonsils, throat, or windpipe, attended with
inflammation, swelling, and difficulty of breathing and swallowing.

CYNANTHROPY
Cy*nan"thro*py (s-nn"thr-p), n. Etym: [Gr. cynanthropie.] (Med.)

Defn: A kind of madness in which men fancy themselves changed into
dogs, and imitate the voice and habits of that animal.

CYNARCTOMACHY
Cyn`arc*tom"a*chy (sn`rk-tm"-k). n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Bear baiting with a dog. Hudibras.

CYNARRHODIUM
Cyn`ar*rho"di*um (sn`r-r"d-m), n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A fruit like that of the rose, consisting of a cup formed of
the calyx tube and receptacle, and containing achenes.

CYNEGETICS
Cyn`e*get"ics (sn`-jt"ks), n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The art of hunting with dogs.

CYNIC; CYNICAL
Cyn"ic (sn"k), Cyn"ic*al (--kal), a. Etym: [L. cynicus of the sect of
Cynics, fr. Gr. Hound.]

1. Having the qualities of a surly dog; snarling; captious; currish.
I hope it is no very cynical asperity not to confess obligations
where no benefit has been received. Johnson.

2. Pertaining to the Dog Star; as, the cynic, or Sothic, year; cynic
cycle.

3. Belonging to the sect of philosophers called cynics; having the
qualities of a cynic; pertaining to, or resembling, the doctrines of
the cynics.

4. Given to sneering at rectitude and the conduct of life by moral
principles; disbelieving in the reality of any human purposes which
are not suggested or directed by self-interest or self-indulgence;
as, a cynical man who scoffs at pretensions of integrity;
characterized by such opinions; as, cynical views of human nature.

Note: In prose, cynical is used rather than cynic, in the senses 1
and 4. Cynic spasm (Med.), a convulsive contraction of the muscles of
one side of the face, producing a sort of grin, suggesting certain
movements in the upper lip of a dog.

CYNIC
Cyn"ic, n. (Gr. Philos)

1. One of a sect or school of philosophers founded by Antisthenes,
and of whom Diogenes was a disciple. The first Cynics were noted for
austere lives and their scorn for social customs and current
philosophical opinions. Hence the term Cynic symbolized, in the
popular judgment, moroseness, and contempt for the views of others.

2. One who holds views resembling those of the Cynics; a snarler; a
misanthrope; particularly, a person who believes that human conduct
is directed, either consciously or unconsciously, wholly by self-
interest or self-indulgence, and that appearances to the contrary are
superficial and untrustworthy.
He could obtain from one morose cynic, whose opinion it was
impossible to despise, scarcely any not acidulated with scorn.
Macaulay.

CYNICALLY
Cyn"ic*al*ly (sn"-kal-l), adv.

Defn: In a cynical manner.

CYNICALNESS
Cyn"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being cynical.

CYNICISM
Cyn"i*cism (sn"-sz'm), n.

Defn: The doctrine of the Cynics; the quality of being cynical; the
mental state, opnions, or conduct, of a cynic; morose and
contemptuous views and opinions.

CYNOIDEA
Cy*noi"de*a (s-noi"d-a), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Carnivora, including the dogs, wolves, and foxes.

CYNOREXIA
Cyn`o*rex"i*a (sn`-rks"-), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A voracious appetite, like that of a starved dog.

CYNOSURAL
Cy`no*su"ral (s`n-sh"ral or sn`-), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cynosure.

CYNOSURE
Cy"no*sure (s"n-shr or sn"-shr; 277), n. Etym: [L. Cynosura
theconstellation Cynosure, Gr. Cynic.]

1. The constellation of the Lesser Bear, to which, as containing the
polar star, the eyes of mariners and travelers were often directed.

2. That which serves to direct. Southey.

3. Anything to which attention is strongly turned; a center of
attraction.
Where perhaps some beauty lies, The cynosure of neighboring eyes.
Milton.

CYON
Cy"on (s"n), n.

Defn: See Cion, and Scion.

CYPERACEOUS
Cyp`er*a"ceous (sp`r-"shs or s`pr-), a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large family of plants of
which the sedge is the type.

CYPERUS
Cyp"e*rus (sp"-rs), n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A large genus of plants belonging to the Sedge family, and
including the species called galingale, several bulrushes, and the
Egyptian papyrus.

CYPHER
Cy"pher (s"fr), n. & v.

Defn: See Cipher.

CYPHONAUTES
Cyph`o*nau"tes (sf`-n"tz), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The free-swimming, bivalve larva of certain Bryozoa.

CYPHONISM
Cyph"o*nism (sf`-nz'm or s, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A punishment sometimes used by the ancients, consisting in the
besmearing of the criminal with honey, and exposing him to insects.
It is still in use among some Oriental nations.

CYPRAEA
Cy*præ"a (s-pr"), n. Etym: [NL.; cf. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of mollusks, including the cowries. See Cowrie.

CYPRES
Cy`pres" (s`pr" or s`prs"), n. Etym: [OF., nearly.] (Law)

Defn: A rule for construing written instruments so as to conform as
nearly to the intention of the parties as is consistent with law.
Mozley & W.

CYPRESS
Cy"press (s"prs), n.; pl. Cypresses (- Etym: [OE. cipres, cipresse,
OF. cipres, F. cypr, L. cupressus, cyparissus (cf. the usual Lat.
form cupressus), fr. Gr. g, Gen. vi. 14.] (Bot)

Defn: A coniferous tree of the genus Cupressus. The species are
mostly evergreen, and have wood remarkable for its durability.

Note: Among the trees called cypress are the common Oriental cypress,
Cupressus sempervirens, the evergreen American cypress, C. thyoides
(now called Chamaecyparis sphaeroidea), and the deciduous American
cypress, Taxodium distichum. As having anciently been used at
funerals, and to adorn tombs, the Oriental species is an emblem of
mourning and sadness. Cypress vine (Bot.), a climbing plant with red
or white flowers (Ipotoea Quamoclit, formerly Quamoclit vulgaris).

CYPRIAN
Cyp"ri*an (sp"r-an), a. Etym: [L. Cyprius, fr. Cyprus, Gr.

1. Belonging to Cyprus.

2. Of, pertaining, or conducing to, lewdness.

CYPRIAN
Cyp"ri*an, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Cyprus, especially of ancient Cyprus; a
Cypriot.

2. A lewd woman; a harlot.

CYPRINE
Cyp"rine (sp"rn or s"prn), a. Etym: [Cf. Cypress.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cypress.

CYPRINE
Cyp"rine, a. Etym: [See Cyprinoid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Cyprinoid.

CYPRINODONT
Cy*prin"o*dont (s-prn"-dnt), n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cyprinodontidae, a family of fishes including the
killifishes or minnows. See Minnow.

CYPRINOID
Cyp"ri*noid (sp"r-noid), a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like the carp (Cyprinus).
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Cyprinidae, or Carp family, as the goldfish, barbel,
etc.

CYPRIOT
Cyp"ri*ot (sp"r-t), n. Etym: [F. Cypriot, Chypriot.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Cyprus.

CYPRIPEDIUM
Cyp`ri*pe"di*um (sp`r-p"d-m), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Cypris Venus + pes,
pedis, foot.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of orchidaceous plants including the lady's slipper.

CYPRIS
Cy"pris (s"prs), n.; pl. Cyprides (s. Etym: [L. Cypris, the Cyprian
goddess Venus, Gr. Cyprian.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small, bivalve, freshwater Crustacea, belonging to
the Ostracoda; also, a member of this genus.

CYPRUS
Cy"prus (s"prs), n. Etym: [OE. cipres, cypirs; perh. so named as
being first manufactured in Cyprus. Cf. Cipers.]

Defn: A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to,
crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common,
and used for mourning. [Obs.]
Lawn as white as driven snow, Cyprus black as e'er was crow. Shak.

CYPRUSLAWN
Cy"prus*lawn` (-ln`), n.

Defn: Same as Cyprus. Milton.

CYPSELA
Cyp"se*la (sp"s-l), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A one-seeded, one-called, indehiscent fruit; an achene with the
calyx tube adherent.

CYPSELIFORM
Cyp*sel"i*form (sp-sl"-frm), a. Etym: [L. cypselus a kind of swallow,
Gr. -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the swifts (Cypselidæ.)

CYRENAIC
Cyr`e*na"ic (sr`-n"k or s`r-), a. Etym: [L. Cyrenaicus, fr. Cyrene,
in Libya.]

Defn: Pertaining to Cyrenaica, an ancient country of northern Africa,
and to Cyrene, its principal city; also, to a school of philosophy
founded by Aristippus, a native of Cyrene.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Cyrenaica; also, a disciple of the school of
Aristippus. See Cyrenian, n.

CYRENIAN
Cy*re"ni*an (s-r"n-an), a.

Defn: Pertaining to Cyrene, in Africa; Cyrenaic.

CYRENIAN
Cy*re"ni*an, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Cyrene.

2. One of a school of philosophers, established at Cyrene by
Aristippus, a disciple of Socrates. Their doctrines were nearly the
same as those of the Epicureans.

CYRIOLOGIC
Cyr`i*o*log"ic (sr`--lj"k or s`r-), a. Etym: [See Curiologic.]

Defn: Relating to capital letters.

CYRTOSTYLE
Cyr"to*style (sr"t-stl), n. Etym: [Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: A circular projecting portion.

CYST
Cyst (sst), n. Etym: [Gr. Cyme.]

1. (Med.)
(a) A pouch or sac without opening, usually membranous and containing
morbid matter, which is accidentally developed in one of the natural
cavaties or in the substance of an organ.
(b) In old authors, the urinary bladder, or the gall bladder.
[Written also cystis.]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the bladders or air vessels of certain algæ, as of the
great kelp of the Pacific, and common rockweeds (Fuci) of our shores.
D. C. Eaton.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small capsule or sac of the kind in which many immature
entozoans exit in the tissues of living animals; also, a similar form
in Rotifera, etc.
(b) A form assumed by Protozoa inwhich they become saclike and
quiescent. It generally precedes the production of germs. See
Encystment.

CYSTED
Cyst"ed (ss"td), a.

Defn: Inclosed in a cyst.

CYSTIC
Cyst"ic (ss"tk), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cystique.]

1. Having the form of, or living in, a cyst; as, the cystic entozoa.

2. Containing cysts; cystose; as, cystic sarcoma.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or contained in, a cyst; esp., pertaining to, or
contained in, either the urinary bladder or the gall bladder. Cystic
duct, the duct from the gall bladder which unites with the hepatic to
form the common bile duct.
 -- Cystic worm (Zoöl.), a larval tape worm, as the cysticercus and
echinococcus.

CYSTICERCE; CYSTICERCUS
Cys"ti*cerce (ss"t-srs), Cys`ti*cer"cus (-sr"ks), n. Etym: [NL.
cysticercus, fr. Gr. cysticerque.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larval form of a tapeworm, having the head and neck of a
tapeworm attached to a saclike body filled with fluid; -- called also
bladder worm, hydatid, and measle (as, pork measle).

Note: These larvae live in the tissues of various living animals,
and, when swallowed by a suitable carnivorous animal, develop into
adult tapeworms in the intestine. See Measles, 4, Tapeworm.

CYSTICULE
Cys"ti*cule (ss"t-kl), n. Etym: [Dim. of cyst.] (Anat.)

Defn: An appendage of the vestibular ear sac of fishes. Owen.

CYSTID
Cys"tid (ss"td), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cystidea.

CYSTIDEA
Cys*tid"e*a (ss-td"-), n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Crinoidea, mostly fossils of the Paleozoic rocks.
They were usually roundish or egg-shaped, and often unsymmetrical;
some were sessile, others had short stems.

CYSTIDEAN
Cys*tid"e*an (-td"-an), n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cystidea.

CYSTINE
Cyst"ine (ss"tn; 104), n. Etym: [See Cyst.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance, C3H7NSO2, containing sulphur,
occuring as a constituent of certain rare urinary calculi, and
occasionally found as a sediment in urine.

CYSTIS
Cys"tis (ss"ts), n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A cyst. See Cyst.

CYSTITIS
Cys*ti"tis (ss-t"ts), n. Etym: [Cyst + -itis: cf. F. cystite.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the bladder.

CYSTOCARP
Cys"to*carp (ss"t-krp), n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A minute vesicle in a red seaweed, which contains the
reproductive spores.

CYSTOCELE
Cys"to*cele (-sl), n. Etym: [Gr. cystocele.] (Med.)

Defn: Hernia in which the urinary bladder protrudes; vesical hernia.

CYSTOID; CYSTOIDEAN
Cys"toid, Cys*toid"e*an, n.

Defn: Same as Cystidean.

CYSTOIDEA
Cys*toi"de*a (ss-toi"d-), n.

Defn: Same as Cystidea.

CYSTOLITH
Cys"to*lith (ss"t-lth), n. Etym: [Gr. -lith.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A concretion of mineral matter within a leaf or other part of a
plant.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A urinary calculus.

CYSTOLITHIC
Cys`to*lith"ic (-lth"k), a. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to stone in the bladder.

CYSTOPLAST
Cys"to*plast (-plst), n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A nucleated cell having an envelope or cell wall, as a red
blood corpuscle or an epithelial cell; a cell concerned in growth.

CYSTOSE
Cyst"ose (ss"ts), a.

Defn: Containing, or resembling, a cyst or cysts; cystic; bladdery.

CYSTOTOME
Cys"to*tome (ss"t-tm), n. Etym: [Gr. cystotome.] (Surg.)

Defn: A knife or instrument used in cystotomy.

CYSTOTOMY
Cys*tot"o*my (ss-tt"-m), n. Etym: [Gr. cystotomie.]

Defn: The act or practice of opening cysts; esp., the operation of
cutting into the bladder, as for the extraction of a calculus.

CYTHEREAN
Cyth`er*e"an (sth`r--"an), a. Etym: [L. Cythereus, from Cythera, Gr.
Cerigo, an island in the Ægean Sea, celebrated for the worship of
Venus.]

Defn: Pertaining to the goddess Venus.

CYTOBLAST
Cy"to*blast (s"t-blst), n. Etym: [Gr. -blast.] (Biol.)

Defn: The nucleus of a cell; the germinal or active spot of a
cellule, through or in which cell development takes place.

CYTOBLASTEMA
Cy`to*blas*te"ma (-bls-t"m), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: See Protoplasm.

CYTOCOCCUS
Cy`to*coc"cus (-kk"ks), n.; pl. Cytococci (-s. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
(Biol.)

Defn: The nucleus of the cytula or parent cell. Hæckel.

CYTODE
Cy"tode (s"td), n. Etym: [Gr. Cyst.] (Biol.)

Defn: A nonnucleated mass of protoplasm, the supposed simplest form
of independent life differing from the amoeba, in which nuclei are
present.

CYTOGENESIS
Cy`to*gen"e*sis (s`t-jn"-ss), n. Etym: [Gr. genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: Development of cells in animal and vegetable organisms. See
Gemmation, Budding, Karyokinesis; also Cell development, under Cell.

CYTOGENIC; CYTOGENETIC
Cy`to*gen"ic (s`t-jn"k), Cy`to*ge*net"ic (-j-nt"k), a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to cytogenesis or cell development.

CYTOGENOUS
Cy*tog"e*nous (s-tj"-ns), a. (Anat.)

Defn: Producing cells; -- applied esp. to lymphatic, or adenoid,
tissue.

CYTOGENY
Cy*tog"e*ny (-n), n . (Biol.)

Defn: Cell production or development; cytogenesis.

CYTOID
Cy"toid (s"toid), a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Cell-like; -- applied to the corpuscles of lymph, blood, chyle,
etc.

CYTOPLASM
Cy"to*plasm (s"t-plz'm), n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The substance of the body of a cell, as distinguished from the
karyoplasma, or substance of the nucleus.
 -- Cy`to*plas"mic (-pl, a.

CYTULA
Cyt"u*la (st"-l), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The fertilized egg cell or parent cell, from the development of
which the child or other organism is formed. Hæckel.

CZAR
Czar (zär), n. Etym: [Russ. tsare, fr. L. Caesar Cæsar; cf. OPol.
czar, Pol. car. ]

Defn: A king; a chief; the title of the emperor of Russia. [Written
also tzar.]

CZAREVNA
Cza*rev"na (z-rv"n), n. Etym: [Russ. tsarevna.]

Defn: The title of the wife of the czarowitz.

CZARINA
Cza*ri"na (z-r"n), n. Etym: [Cf. G. Zarin, Czarin, fem., Russ.
tsaitsa.]

Defn: The title of the empress of Russia.

CZARINIAN
Cza*rin"i*an (z-rn"-an), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the czar or the czarina; czarish.

CZARISH
Czar"ish (zr"sh), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the czar.

CZAROWITZ
Czar"o*witz (zr"-wts or tr"-vch), n.; pl. Czarowitzes (-. Etym:
[Russ. tsar.]

Defn: The title of the eldest son of the czar of Russia.

CZECH
Czech (chk; 204), n.

1. One of the Czechs.

2. The language of the Czechs (often called Bohemian), the harshest
and richest of the Slavic languages.

CZECHIC
Czech"ic (chk"k), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Czechs. "One Czechic realm." The
Nation.

CZECHS
Czechs (chks), n. pl.; sing. Czech. Etym: [Named after their
chieftain, Czech.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: The most westerly branch of the great Slavic family of nations,
numbering now more than 6,000,000, and found principally in Bohemia
and Moravia.

D

1. The fourth letter of the English alphabet, and a vocal consonent.
The English letter is from Latin, which is from Greek, which took it
from Phoenician, the probable ultimate origin being Egyptian. It is
related most nearly to t and th; as, Eng. deep, G. tief; Eng.
daughter, G. tochter, Gr. duhitr. See Guide to Pronunciation, sq.
root178, 179, 229.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The nominal of the second tone in the model major scale (that
in C), or of the fourth tone in the relative minor scale of C (that
in A minor), or of the key tone in the relative minor of F.

3. As a numeral D stands for 500. in this use it is not the initial
of any word, or even strictly a letter, but one half of the sign

DAB
Dab, n. Etym: [Perh. corrupted fr. adept.]

Defn: A skillful hand; a dabster; an expert. [Colloq.]
One excels at a plan or the titlepage, another works away at the body
of the book, and the therd is a dab at an index. Goldsmith.

DAB
Dab, n. Etym: [Perh. so named from its quickness in diving beneath
the sand. Cf. Dabchick.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name given to several species of Pleuronectes . TheAmerican
rough dab is Hippoglossoides platessoides.

DAB
Dab, v. i. [imp. & p.p. Dabbed; p.pr.& vb.n. Dabbing.] Etym: [OE.
dabben to strice; akin to OD. dabben to pinch, knead, fumble, dabble,
and perh. to G. tappen to grope.]

1. To strike or touch gently, as with a soft or moist substance; to
tap; hence, to besmear with a dabber.
A sore should . . . be wiped . . . only by dabbing it over with fine
lint. S. Sharp.

2. To strike by a thrust; to hit with a sudden blow or thrust. "To
dab him in the neck." Sir T. More.

DAB
Dab, n.

1. A gentle blow with the hand or some soft substance; a sudden blow
or hit; a peck.
Astratch of her clame, a dab of her beack. Hawthorne.

2. A small mass of anything soft or moist.

DABB
Dabb, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes), found in
Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine; -- called also dhobb, and dhabb.

DABBER
Dab"ber, n.

Defn: That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used by
printers, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plates
with ink.

DABBLE
Dab"ble, v. t. [imp.&p.p Dabbled; p.pr.&vb.n. Dabbling.] Etym: [Freq.
of dab: cf. OD. dabbelen.]

Defn: To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; to
moisten; to wet. "Bright hair dabbled in blood." Shak.

DABBLE
Dab"ble, v. i.

1. To play in water, as with the hands; to paddle or splash in mud or
water.
Wher the duck dabbles Wordsworth.

2. To work in slight or superficial manner; to do in a small way; to
tamper; to meddle. "Dabbling here and there with the text."
Atterbury.
During the ferst year at Dumfries, Burns for the ferst time began to
dabble in politics. J. C. Shairp.

DABBLER
Dab"bler, n.

1. One who dabbles.

2. One who dips slightly into anything; a superficial meddler. "our
dabblers in politics." Swift.

DABBLINGLY
Dab"bling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a dabbling manner.

DABCHICK
Dab"chick`, n. Etym: [For dabchick. See Dap, Dip, cf. Dipchick.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes,
remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick,
dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver, hell-diver, and
pied-billed grebe.

DABOIA
Da*boi"a, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica).

DABSTER
Dab"ster, n. Etym: [Cf. Dab an expert.]

Defn: One who is skilled; a master of his business; a proficient; an
adept. [Colloq.]

Note: Sometimes improperly used for dabbler; as, "I am but a dabster
with gentle art."

DACAPO
Da`ca"po. Etym: [It., from [the] head or beginning.] (Mus.)

Defn: From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, the
first strain; -- indicated by the letters D. C. Also, the strain so
repeated.

DACE
Dace, n. Etym: [Written also dare, dart, fr. F. dard dase, dart, of
German origin. Dace is for an older darce, fr. an OF. nom. darz. See
Dart a javelin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus or
Leuciscus vulgaris); -- called also dare.

Note: In America the name is given to several related fishes of the
genera Squalius, Minnilus, etc. The black-nosed dace is Rhinichthys
atronasus the horned dace is Semotilus corporalis. For red dace, see
Redfin.

DACHSHUND
Dachs"hund`, n. Etym: [G., from dachs badger + hund dog.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a breed of small dogs with short crooked legs, and long
body; -- called also badger dog. There are two kinds, the rough-
haired and the smooth-haired.

DACIAN
Da"cian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of ancient Dacia.

DACOIT
Da*coit" (da*koit"), n. [Hind. dsakait, dsakayat.]

Defn: One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs.

DACOITY
Da*coit"y, n.

Defn: The practice of gang robbery in India; robbery committed by
dacoits.

DACOTAHS
Da*co"tahs, n. pl.; sing. Dacotan (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Same as Dacotas. Longfellow.

DACTYL
Dac"tyl, n. Etym: [L. dactylus, Gr. Digit.]

1. (Pros.)

Defn: A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~), one long followed
by two short, or one accented followed by two unaccented; as, L.
tëgmînê, E. mer"ciful; -- so called from the similarity of its
arrangement to that of the joints of a finger. [Written also
dactyle.]

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A finger or toe; a digit.
(b) The claw or terminal joint of a leg of an insect or crustacean.

DACTYLAR
Dac"tyl*ar, a.

1. Pertaining to dactyl; dactylic.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a finger or toe, or to the claw of an
insect crustacean.

DACTYLET
Dac"tyl*et, n. Etym: [Dactyl + .]

Defn: A dactyl. [Obs.]

DACTYLIC
Dac*tyl"ic, a. Etym: [L. dactylicus, Gr. , fr. .]

Defn: Pertaining to, consisting chiefly or wholly of, dactyls; as,
dactylic verses.

DACTYLIC
Dac*tyl"ic, n.

1. A line consisting chiefly or wholly of dactyls; as, these lines
are dactylics.

2. pl.

Defn: Dactylic meters.

DACTYLIOGLYPH
Dactyl"i*o*glyph, n. Etym: [Gr. an engraver of gems; finger ring (fr.
finger) + to engrave.] (Fine Arts)
(a) An engraver of gems for rings and other ornaments.
(b) The inscription of the engraver's name on a finger ring or gem.

DACTYLIOGLYPHY
Dac*tyl`i*og"ly*phy, n.

Defn: The art or process of gem engraving.

DACTYLIOGRAPHY
Dac*tyl`i*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. finger ring + .] (Fine Arts)
(a) The art of writing or engraving upon gems.
(b) In general, the literature or history of the art.

DACTYLIOLOGY
Dac*tyl`i* ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. finger ring + .] (Fine Arts)
(a) That branch of archæology which has to do with gem engraving.
(b) That branch of archæology which has to do with finger rings.

DACTYLIOMANCY
Dac*tyl"i*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. dakty`lios + -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of finger rings.

DACTYLIST
Dac"tyl*ist, n.

Defn: A writer of dactylic verse.

DACTYLITIS
Dac`tyl*i"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. finger + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflammatory affection of the fingers. Gross.

DACTYLOLOGY
Dac`tyl*o"logy, n. Etym: [Gr. finger + -logy.]

Defn: The art of communicating ideas by certain movements and
positions of the fingers; -- a method of conversing practiced by the
deaf and dumb.

Note: There are two different manual alphabets, the one hand alphabet
(which was perfected by Abbé de l'Epée, who died in 1789), and the
two hand alphabet. The latter was probably based on the manual
alphabet published by George Dalgarus of Aberdeen, in 1680. See
Illustration in Appendix.

DACTYLOMANCY
Dac*tyl"o*man`cy, n.

Defn: Dactylio mancy. [R.] Am. Cyc.

DACTYLONOMY
Dac`tyl*on"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. finger + law, distribution.]

Defn: The art of numbering or counting by the fingers.

DACTYLOPTEROUS
Dac`tyl*op"ter*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. finger + wing, fin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the inferior rays of the pectoral fins partially or
entirely free, as in the gurnards.

DACTYLOTHECA
Dac`ty*lo*the"ca, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. finger, toe + case, box.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The scaly covering of the toes, as in birds.

DACTYLOZOOID
Dac`tyl*o*zo"oid, n. Etym: [Gr. finger + E. zooid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of zooid of Siphonophora which has an elongated or even
vermiform body, with one tentacle, but no mouth. See Siphonophora.

DAD
Dad, n. Etym: [Prob. of Celtic origin; cf. Ir. daid, Gael. daidein,
W. tad, OL. , , Skr. tata.]

Defn: Father; -- a word sometimes used by children.
I was never so bethumped withwords, Since I first called my brother's
father dad. Shak.

DADDLE
Dad"dle, v. i. [imp. & p.p. Daddled, p.pr. & vb.n. Daddling.] Etym:
[Prob. freq. of dade.]

Defn: To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man;
hence, to do anything slowly or feebly.

DADDOCK
Dad"dock, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. dad a large piece.]

Defn: The rotten body of a tree. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

DADDY
Dad"dy, n.

Defn: Diminutive of Dad. Dryden.

DADDY LONGLEGS
Dad"dy long"legs`.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An arachnidan of the genus Phalangium, and allied genera,
having a small body and four pairs of long legs; -- called also
harvestman, carter, and grandfather longlegs.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name applied to many species of dipterous insects of the
genus Tipula, and allied genera, with slender bodies, and very long,
slender legs; the crane fly; -- called also father longlegs.

DADE
Dade, v. t. Etym: [Of. uncertain origin. Cf. Dandle, Daddle.]

Defn: To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child while
he toddles. [Obs.]
Little children when they learn to go By painful mothers daded to and
fro. Drayton.

DADE
Dade, v. i.

Defn: To walk unsteadily, as a child in leading strings, or just
learning to walk; to move slowly. [Obs.]
No sooner taught to dade, but from their mother trip. Drayton.

DADO
Da"do, n.; pl. Dadoes. Etym: [It. dado die, cube, pedestal; of the
same origin as E. die, n. See Die, n.] (Arch.)
(a) That part of a pedestal included between the base and the cornice
(or surbase); the die. See Illust. of Column. Hence:
(b) In any wall, that part of the basement included between the base
and the base course. See Base course, under Base.
(c) In interior decoration, the lower part of the wall of an
apartment when adorned with moldings, or otherwise specially
decorated.

DAEDAL; DAEDALIAN
Dæ"dal, Dæ*dal"ian, a. Etym: [L. daedalus cunningly wrought, fr. Gr.
; cf. to work cunningly. The word also alludes to the mythical
Dædalus (Gr. , lit., the cunning worker).]

1. Cunningly or ingeniously formed or working; skillful; artistic;
ingenious.
Our bodies decked in our dædalian arms. Chapman.
The dædal hand of Nature. J. Philips.
The doth the dædal earth throw forth to thee, Out of her fruitful,
abundant flowers. Spenser.

2. Crafty; deceitful. [R.] Keats.

DAEDALOUS
Dæd"a*lous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves.

DAEMON; DAEMONIC
Dæ"mon, n., Dæ*mon"ic (, a.

Defn: See Demon, Demonic.

DAFF
Daff, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Doff.]

Defn: To cast aside; to put off; to doff. [Obs.]
Canst thou so daff me Thou hast killed my child. Shak.

DAFF
Daff, n. Etym: [See Daft.]

Defn: A stupid, blockish fellow; a numskull. [Obs.] Chaucer.

DAFF
Daff, v. i.

Defn: To act foolishly; to be foolish or sportive; to toy. [Scot.]
Jamieson.

DAFF
Daff, v. t.

Defn: To daunt. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.

DAFFODIL
Daf"fo*dil, n. Etym: [OE. affodylle, prop., the asphodel, fr. LL.
affodillus (cf. D. affodille or OF. asphodile, aphodille, F.
asphodèle), L. asphodelus, fr. Gr. . The initial d in English is not
satisfactorily explained. See Asphodel.] (Bot.)
(a) A plant of the genus Asphodelus.
(b) A plant of the genus Narcissus (N. Pseudo-narcissus). It has a
bulbous root and beautiful flowers, usually of a yellow hue. Called
also daffodilly, daffadilly, daffadowndilly, daffydowndilly, etc.
With damasc roses and daffadowndillies set. Spenser.
Strow me the ground with daffadowndillies, And cowslips, and
kingcups, and loved lilies. Spenser.
A college gown That clad her like an April Daffodilly. Tennyson
And chance-sown daffodil. Whittier.

DAFT
Daft, a. Etym: [OE. daft, deft, deft, stupid; prob. the same word as
E. deft. See Deft.]

1. Stupid; folish; idiotic; also, delirious; insance; as, he has gone
daft.
Let us think no more of this daft business Sir W. Scott.

2. Gay; playful; frolicsome. [Scot.] Jamieson.

DAFTNESS
Daft"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being daft.

DAG
Dag, n. Etym: [Cf. F. dague, LL. daga, D. dagge (fr. French); all
prob. fr. Celtic; Cf. Gael. dag a pistol, Armor. dag dagger, W.
dager, dagr, Ir. daigear. Cf. Dagger.]

1. A dagger; a poniard. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. A large pistol formerly used. [Obs.]
The Spaniards discharged their dags, and hurt some. Foxe.
A sort of pistol, called dag, was used about the same time as hand
guns and harquebuts. Grose.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The unbrunched antler of a young deer.

DAG
Dag, n. Etym: [Of Scand. origin; cf. Sw. dagg, Icel. dögg. sq.
root71. See Dew.]

Defn: A misty shower; dew. [Obs.]

DAG
Dag, n. Etym: [OE. dagge (cf. Dagger); or cf. AS. dag what is
dangling.]

Defn: A loose end; a dangling shred.
Daglocks, clotted locks hanging in dags or jags at a sheep's tail.
Wedgwood.

DAG
Dag, v. t. Etym: [1, from Dag dew. 2, from Dag a loose end.]

1. To daggle or bemire. [Prov. Eng.] Johnson.

2. To cut into jags or points; to slash; as, to dag a garment. [Obs.]
Wright.

DAG
Dag, v. i.

Defn: To be misty; to drizzle. [Prov. Eng.]

DAGGER
Dag"ger, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. daggen to pierce, F. daguer. See Dag a
dagger.]

1. A short weapon used for stabbing. This is the general term: cf.
Poniard, Stiletto, Bowie knife, Dirk, Misericorde, Anlace.

2. (Print.)

Defn: A mark of reference in the form of a dagger [|]. It is the
second in order when more than one reference occurs on a page; --
called also obelisk. Dagger moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genus
Apatalea. The larvæ are often destructive to the foliage of fruit
trees, etc.
 -- Dagger of lath, the wooden weapon given to the Vice in the old
Moralities. Shak.
 -- Double dagger, a mark of reference [||] which comes next in order
after the dagger.
 -- To look, or speak, daggers, to look or speak fiercely or
reproachfully.

DAGGER
Dag"ger, v. t.

Defn: To pierce with a dagger; to stab. [Obs.]

DAGGER
Dag"ger, n. Etym: [Perh. from diagonal.]

Defn: A timber placed diagonally in a ship's frame. Knight.

DAGGES
Dagges, n. pl. Etym: [OE. See Dag a loose end.]

Defn: An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introduced
about a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans. [Obs.]
Halliwell.

DAGGLE
Dag"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Daggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Daggling.]
Etym: [Freq. of dag, v. t., 1.]

Defn: To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; to
moisten.
The warrior's very plume, I say, Was daggled by the dashing spray.
Sir W. Scott.

DAGGLE
Dag"gle, v. i.

Defn: To run, go, or trail one's self through water, mud, or slush;
to draggle.
Nor, like a puppy [have I] daggled through the town. Pope.

DAGGLE-TAIL; DAGGLE-TAILED
Dag"gle-tail`, Dag"gle-tailed`, a.

Defn: Having the lower ends of garments defiled by trailing in mire
or filth; draggle-tailed.

DAGGLE-TAIL
Dag"gle-tail`, n.

Defn: A slovenly woman; a slattern; a draggle-tail.

DAGLOCK
Dag"lock`, n. Etym: [Dag a loose and + lock.]

Defn: A dirty or clotted lock of wool on a sheep; a taglock.

DAGO
Da"go, n.; pl. Dagos. Etym: [Cf. Sp. Diego, E. James.]

Defn: A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension,
Portuguese or Italian) descent. [U. S.]

DAGOBA
Da*go"ba, n. Etym: [Singhalese dagoba.]

Defn: A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or some
Buddhist saint. [East Indies]

DAGON
Da"gon, Etym: [Heb. Dagon, fr. dag a fish: cf. Gr. .]

Defn: The national god of the Philistines, represented with the face
and hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish. W. Smith.
This day a solemn feast the people hold To Dagon, their sea idol.
Milton.
They brought it into the house of Dagon. 1 Sam. v. 2.

DAGON
Dag"on, n. Etym: [See Dag a loose end.]

Defn: A slip or piece. [Obs.] Chaucer.

DAGSWAIN
Dag"swain`, n. Etym: [From Dag a loose end]

Defn: Acoarse woolen fabric made of daglocks, or the refuse of wool.
"Under coverlets made of dagswain." Holinshed.

DAG-TAILED
Dag"-tailed`, a. Etym: [Dag a loose end + tail.]

Defn: Daggle-tailed; having the tail clogged with daglocks. "Dag-
tailed sheep." Bp. Hall.

DAGUERREAN; DAGUERREIAN
Da*guer"re*an, Da*guerre"i*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Daguerre, or to his invention of the
daguerreotype.

DAGUERREOTYPE
Da*guerre"o*type, n. Etym: [From Daguerre the inventor + -type.]

1. An early variety of photograph, produced on a silver plate, or
copper plate covered with silver, and rendered sensitive by the
action of iodine, or iodine and bromine, on which, after exposure in
the camera, the latent image is developed by the vapor of mercury.

2. The process of taking such pictures.

DAGUERREOTYPE
Da*guerre"o*type, v. t. [imp. & p.p. Daguerreotyped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Daguerreotyping.]

1. To produce or represent by the daguerreotype process, as a
picture.

2. To impress with great distinctness; to imprint; to imitate
exactly.

DAGUERREOTYPER; DAGUERREOTYPIST
Da*guerre"o*ty`per, Da*guerre"o*ty`pist, n.

Defn: One who takes daguerreotypes.

DAGUERREOTYPY
Da*guerre"o*ty`py, n.

Defn: The art or process of producing pictures by method of Daguerre.

DAHABEAH
Da`ha*be"ah, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: A nile boat

DAHLIA
Dah"lia, n.; pl. Dahlias. Etym: [Named after Andrew Dahl a Swedish
botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of the
order Compositæ; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerous
varieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differ
in color.

DAHLIN
Dah"lin, n. Etym: [From Dahlia.] (Chem.)

Defn: A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called also
inulin. See Inulin.

DAHOON
Da*hoon" (da*hoon"), [Origin unknown.]

Defn: An evergreen shrub or small tree (Ilex cassine) of the southern
United States, bearing red drupes and having soft, white, close-
grained wood; -- called also dahoon holly.

DAILINESS
Dai"li*ness, n.

Defn: Daily occurence. [R.]

DAILY
Dai"ly, a. Etym: [AS. dæglic; dæg day + -lic like. See Day.]

Defn: Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as,
daily labor; a daily bulletin.
Give us this day our daily bread. Matt. vi. 11.
Bunyan has told us . . . that in New England his dream was the daily
subject of the conversation of thousands. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Daily, Diurnal. Daily is Anglo-Saxon, and diurnal is Latin. The
former is used in reference to the ordinary concerns of life; as,
daily wants, daily cares, daily employments. The latter is
appropriated chiefly by astronomers to what belongs to the
astronomical day; as, the diurnal revolution of the earth.
Man hath his daily work of body or mind Appointed, which declares his
dignity, And the regard of Heaven on all his ways. Milton.
Half yet remains unsung, but narrower bound Within the visible
diurnal sphere. Milton.

DAILY
Dai"ly, n.; pl. Dailies (.

Defn: A publication which appears regularly every day; as, the
morning dailies.

DAILY
Dai"ly, adv.

Defn: Every day; day by day; as, a thing happens daily.

DAIMIO
Dai"mi*o, n.; pl. Daimios. Etym: [Jap., fr. Chin. tai ming great
name.]

Defn: The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.daimyo
The daimios, or territorial nobles, resided in Yedo and were divided
into four classes. Am. Cyc.

DAINT
Daint, n. Etym: [See Dainty, n.]

Defn: Something of exquisite taste; a dainty. [Obs.] -- a.

Defn: Dainty. [Obs.]
To cherish him with diets daint. Spenser.

DAINTIFY
Dain"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Daintified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Daintifying.] Etym: [Dainty + -fy.]

Defn: To render dainty, delicate, or fastidious. "Daintified
emotion." Sat. rev.

DAINTILY
Dain"ti*ly, adv.

Defn: In a dainty manner; nicely; scrupulously; fastidiously;
deliciously; prettily.

DAINTINESS
Dain"ti*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being dainty; nicety; niceness; elegance;
delicacy; deliciousness; fastidiousness; squeamishness.
The daintiness and niceness of our captains Hakluyt.
More notorious for the daintiness of the provision . . . than for the
massiveness of the dish. Hakewill.
The duke exeeded in the daintiness of his leg and foot, and the earl
in the fine shape of his hands, Sir H. Wotton.

DAINTREL
Dain"trel, n. Etym: [From daint or dainty; cf. OF. daintier.]

Defn: Adelicacy. [Obs.] Halliwell.

DAINTY
Dain"ty, n.; pl. Dainties. Etym: [OE. deinie, dainte, deintie,
deyntee, OF. deintié delicacy, orig., dignity, honor, fr. L.
dignitas, fr. dignus worthy. See Deign, and cf. Dignity.]

1. Value; estimation; the gratification or pleasure taken in
anything. [Obs.]
I ne told no deyntee of her love. Chaucer.

2. That which is delicious or delicate; a delicacy.
That precious nectar may the taste renew Of Eden's dainties, by our
parents lost. Beau. & Fl.

3. A term of fondness. [Poetic] B. Jonson.

Syn.
 -- Dainty, Delicacy. These words are here compared as denoting
articles of food. The term delicacy as applied to a nice article of
any kind, and hence to articles of food which are particularly
attractive. Dainty is stronger, and denotes some exquisite article of
cookery. A hotel may be provided with all the delicacies of the
season, and its table richly covered with dainties.
These delicacies I mean of taste, sight, smell, herbs, fruits, and
flowers, Walks and the melody of birds. Milton.
[A table] furnished plenteously with bread, And dainties, remnants of
the last regale. Cowper.

DAINTY
Dain"ty, a. [Compar. Daintier; superl. Daintiest.]

1. Rare; valuable; costly. [Obs.]
Full many a deynté horse had he in stable. Chaucer.

Note: Hence the proverb "dainty maketh dearth," i. e., rarity makes a
thing dear or precious.

2. Delicious to the palate; toothsome.
Dainty bits Make rich the ribs. Shak.

3. Nice; delicate;elegant, in form, manner, or breeding; well-formed;
neat; tender.
Those dainty limbs which nature lent For gentle usage and soft
delicacy. Milton.
Iwould be the girdle. About her dainty, dainty waist. Tennyson.

4. Requirinig daintles. Hence; Overnice; hard to please; fastidious;
sqrupulous; ceremonious.
Thew were a fine and Dainty people. Bacon.
And let us not be dainty of leave taking, But shift away. Shak.
To make dainty, to assume or affect delicacy or fastidiousness.
[Obs.]
Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all Will now deny to dance She
that makes dainty, She, I'll swear, hath corns. Shak.

DAIRA
Da"ï*ra, n. [Turk. daire circuit department, fr. Ar. daïrah circle.]

Defn: Any of several valuable estates of the Egyptian khedive or his
family. The most important are the Da"i*ra Sa"ni*eh, or Sa"ni*yeh,
and the Da"i*ra Khas"sa, administered by the khedive's European
bondholders, and known collectively as the Daira, or the Daira
estates.

DAIRY
Dai"ry, n.;pl. Dairies. Etym: [OE. deierie, from deie, daie, maid; of
Scand. origin; cf. Icel. deigja maid, dairymaid, Sw. deja, orig., a
baking maid, fr. Icel. deig. Dough.]

1. The place, room, or house where milk is kept, and converted into
butter or cheese.
What stores my dairies and my folds contain. Dryden.

2. That department of farming which is concerned in the production of
milk, and its conversion into butter and cheese.
Grounds were turned much in England either to feeding or dairy; and
this advanced the trade of English butter. Temple.

3. A dairy farm. [R.]

Note: Dairy is much used adjectively or in combination; as, dairy
farm, dairy countries, dairy house or dairyhouse, dairyroom,
dairywork, etc.

DAIRYING
Dai"ry*ing, n.

Defn: The business of conducting a dairy.

DAIRYMAID
Dai"ry*maid`, n.

Defn: A female servant whose business is the care of the dairy.

DAIRYMAN
Dai"ry*man, n.; pl. Dairymen (.

Defn: A man who keeps or takes care of a dairy.

DAIRYWOMAN
Dai"ry*wom`an, n.; pl. Dairywomen (.

Defn: A woman who attends to a dairy.

DAIS
Da"is (da"îs), n. Etym: [OE. deis, des, table, dais, OF. deis table,
F. dais a canopy, L. discus a quoit, a dish (from the shape), LL.,
table, fr. Gr. a quoit, a dish. See Dish.]

1. The high or principal table, at the end of a hall, at which the
chief guests were seated; also, the chief seat at the high table.
[Obs.]

2. A platform slightly raised above the floor of a hall or large
room, giving distinction to the table and seats placed upon it for
the chief guests.

3. A canopy over the seat of a person of dignity. [Obs.] Shiply.

DAISIED
Dai"sied, a.

Defn: Full of daisies; adorned with daisies. "The daisied green."
Langhorne.
The grass all deep and daisied. G. Eliot.

DAISY
Dai"sy, n.; pl. Daisies. Etym: [OE. dayesye, AS. dæges day's eye,
daisy. See Day, and Eye.] (Bot.)
(a) A genus of low herbs (Bellis), belonging to the family Compositæ.
The common English and classical daisy is B. prennis, which has a
yellow disk and white or pinkish rays.
(b) The whiteweed (Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum), the plant commonly
called daisy in North America; -- called also oxeye daisy. See
Whiteweed.

Note: The word daisy is also used for composite plants of other
genera, as Erigeron, or fleabane. Michaelmas daisy (Bot.), any plant
of the genus Aster, of which there are many species.
 -- Oxeye daisy (Bot.), the whiteweed. See Daisy (b).

DAK
Dak, n. Etym: [Hind. .]

Defn: Post; mail; also, the mail or postal arrangements; -- spelt
also dawk, and dauk. [India] Dak boat, a mail boat. Percy Smith.
 -- Dak bungalow, a traveler's rest-house at the and of a dak stage.
 -- To travel by dak, to travel by relays of palanquines or other
carriage, as fast as the post along a road.

DAKER; DAKIR
Da"ker, Da"kir, n. Etym: [See Dicker.] (O. Eng. & Scots Law)

Defn: A measure of certain commodities by number, usually ten or
twelve, but sometimes twenty; as, a daker of hides consisted of ten
skins; a daker of gloves of ten pairs. Burrill.

DAKER HEN
Da"ker hen`. Etym: [Perh. fr. W. crecial the daker hen; crec a sharp
noise (creg harsh, hoarse, crechian to scream) + iar hen; or cf. D.
duiken to dive, plunge.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The corncrake or land rail.

DAKOIT; DAKOITY
Da*koit", n., Da*koit"y, n.

Defn: See Dacoit, Dacoity.

DAKOTA GROUP
Da*ko"ta group`. (Geol.)

Defn: A subdivision at the base of the cretaceous formation in
Western North America; -- so named from the region where the strata
were first studied.

DAKOTAS
Da*ko"tas, n. pl.; sing. Dacota (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: An extensive race or stock of Indians, including many tribes,
mostly dwelling west of the Mississippi River; -- also, in part,
called Sioux. [Written also Dacotahs.]

DAL
Dal, n. Etym: [Hind.]

Defn: Split pulse, esp. of Cajanus Indicus. [East Indies]

DALE
Dale, n. Etym: [AS. dæl; akin to LG., D., Sw., Dan., OS., & Goth.
dal, Icel. dalr, OHG. tal, G. thal, and perth. to Gr. a rotunda, Skr.
dhara depth. Cf. Dell.]

1. A low place between hills; a vle or valley.
Where mountaines rise, umbrageous dales descend. Thomson.

2. A trough or spout to carry off water, as from a pump. Knight.

DALESMAN
Dales"man, n.; pl. Dalesmen (.

Defn: One living in a dale; -- a term applied particularly to the
inhabitants of the valleys in the north of England, Norway, etc.
Macaulay.

DALF
Dalf,

Defn: imp. of Delve. [Obs.] Chaucer.

DALLES
Dalles (dalz), n. pl. [F. dalle a tube, gutter, trough.]

Defn: A rapid, esp. one where the channel is narrowed between rock
walls. [Northwestern U. S. & Canada]

The place below, where the compressed river wound like a silver
thread among the flat black rocks, was the far-famed Dalles of the
Columbia.
F. H. Balch.

DALLIANCE
Dal"li*ance, n. Etym: [From Dally.]

1. The act of dallying, trifling, or fondling; interchange of
caresses; wanton play.
Look thou be true, do not give dalliance Too mnch the rein. Shak.
O, the dalliance and the wit, The flattery and the strifeTennyson.

2. Delay or procrastination. Shak.

3. Entertaining discourse. [Obs.] Chaucer.

DALLIER
Dal"li*er, n.

Defn: One Who fondles; a trifler; as, dalliers with pleasant words.
Asham.

DALLOP
Dal"lop, n. Etym: [Etymol. unknown.]

Defn: A tuft or clump. [Obs.] Tusser.

DALLY
Dal"ly, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Dallied; p. pr. & vb. n. Dallying.] Etym:
[OE. , dailien; cf. Icel. pylja to talk, G. dallen, dalen, dahlen, to
trifle, talk nonsense, OSw. tule a droll or funny man; or AS. dol
foolish, E. dull.]

1. To waste time in effeminate or voluptuous pleasures, or in
idleness; to fool away time; to delay unnecessarily; to tarry; to
trifle.
We have trifled too long already; it is madness to dally any longer.
Calamy.
We have put off God, and dallied with his grace. Barrow.

2. To interchange caresses, especially with one of the opposite sex;
to use fondling; to wanton; to sport.
Not dallying with a brace of courtesans. Shak.
Our aerie . . . dallies with the wind. Shak.

DALLY
Dal"ly, v. t.

Defn: To delay unnecessarily; to while away.
Dallying off the time with often skirmishes. Knolles.

DALMANIA
Dal*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [From Dalman, the geologist.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of trilobites, of many species, common in the Upper
Silurian and Devonian rocks.

DALMANITES
Dal`ma*ni"tes, n.

Defn: Same as Dalmania.

DALMATIAN
Dal*ma"tian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Dalmatia. Dalmatian dog (Zoöl.), a carriage
dog, shaped like a pointer, and having black or bluish spots on a
white ground; the coach dog.

DALMATICA; DALMATIC
Dal*mat"i*ca, n., Dal*mat"ic (, n. Etym: [LL. dalmatica: cf. F.
dalmatique.]

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A vestment with wide sleeves, and with two stripes, worn at
Mass by deacons, and by bishops at pontifical Mass; -- imitated from
a dress originally worn in Dalmatia.

2. A robe worn on state ocasions, as by English kings at their
coronation.

DAL SEGNO
Dal` se"gno. Etym: [It., from the sign.] (Mus.)

Defn: A direction to go back to the sign Segno.

DALTONIAN
Dal*to"ni*an, n.

Defn: One afflicted with color blindness.

DALTONISM
Dal"ton*ism, n.

Defn: Inability to perceive or distinguish certain colors, esp. red;
color blindness. It has various forms and degrees. So called from the
chemist Dalton, who had this infirmity. Nichol.

DAM
Dam, n. Etym: [OE. dame mistress, lady; also, mother, dam. See Dame.]

1. A female parent; -- used of beasts, especially of quadrupeds;
sometimes applied in contempt to a human mother.
Our sire and dam, now confined to horses, are a relic of this age
(13th century) . . . .Dame is used of a hen; we now make a great
difference between dame and dam. T. L. K. Oliphant.
The dam runs lowing up end down, Looking the way her harmless young
one went. Shak.

2. A kind or crowned piece in the game of draughts.

DAM
Dam, n. Etym: [Akin to OLG., D., & Dan. dam, G. & Sw. damm, Icel.
dammr, and AS. fordemman to stop up, Goth. Faúrdammjan.]

1. A barrier to prevent the flow of a liquid; esp., a bank of earth,
or wall of any kind, as of masonry or wood, built across a water
course, to confine and keep back flowing water.

2. (Metal.)

Defn: A firebrick wall, or a stone, which forms the front of the
hearth of a blast furnace. Dam plate (Blast Furnace), an iron plate
in front of the dam, to strengthen it.

DAM
Dam, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dammed; p. pr. & vb. n. Damming.]

1. To obstruct or restrain the flow of, by a dam; to confine by
constructing a dam, as a stream of water; -- generally used with in
or up.
I'll have the current in this place dammed up. Shak.
A weight of earth that dams in the water. Mortimer.

2. To shut up; to stop up; to close; to restrain.
The strait pass was dammed With dead men hurt behind, and cowards.
Shak.
To dam out, to keep out by means of a dam.

DAMAGE
Dam"age, n. Etym: [OF. damage, domage, F. dommage, fr. assumed LL.
damnaticum, from L. damnum damage. See Damn.]

1. Injury or harm to person, property, or reputation; an inflicted
loss of value; detriment; hurt; mischief.
He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off the feet
and drinketh damage. Prov. xxvi. 6.
Great errors and absurdities many commit for want of a friend to tell
them of them, to the great damage both of their fame and fortune.
Bacon.

2. pl. (Law)

Defn: The estimated reparation in money for detriment or injury
sustained; a compensation, recompense, or satisfaction to one party,
for a wrong or injury actually done to him by another.

Note: In common-law action, the jury are the proper judges of
damages. Consequential damage. See under Consequential.
 -- Exemplary damages (Law), damages imposed by way of example to
others.
 -- Nominal damages (Law), those given for a violation of a right
where no actual loss has accrued.
 -- Vindictive damages, those given specially for the punishment of
the wrongdoer.

Syn.
 -- Mischief; injury; harm; hurt; detriment; evil; ill. See Mischief.

DAMAGE
Dam"age, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Damages; p. pr. & vb. n. Damaging.]
Etym: [Cf. OF. damagier, domagier. See Damage, n.]

Defn: To ocassion damage to the soudness, goodness, or value of; to
hurt; to injure; to impair.
He . . . came up to the English admiral and gave him a broadside,
with which he killed many of his men and damaged the ship. Clarendon.

DAMAGE
Dam"age, v. i.

Defn: To receive damage or harm; to be injured or impaired in
soudness or value; as. some colors in damage in sunlight.

DAMAGEABLE
Dam"age*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. dammageable, for sense 2.]

1. Capable of being injured or impaired; liable to, or susceptible
of, damage; as, a damageable cargo.

2. Hurtful; pernicious. [R.]
That it be not demageable unto your royal majesty. Hakluit.

DAMAGE FEASANT
Dam"age fea`sant. Etym: [OF. damage + F. faisant doing, p. pr. See
Feasible.] (Law)

Defn: Doing injury; trespassing, as cattle. Blackstone.

DAMAN
Da"man, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small herbivorous mammal of the genus Hyrax. The species
found in Palestine and Syria is Hyrax Syriacus; that of Northern
Africa is H. Brucei; -- called also ashkoko, dassy, and rock rabbit.
See Cony, and Hyrax.

DAMAR
Dam"ar, n.

Defn: See Dammar.

DAMARA
Da*ma"ra, n. [The name is supposed to be from Hottentot dama
vanquished.]

Defn: A native of Damaraland, German Southwest Africa. The Damaras
include an important and warlike Bantu tribe, and the Hill Damaras,
who are Hottentots and mixed breeds hostile to the Bantus.

DAMASCENE
Dam"as*cene, a. Etym: [L. Damascenus of Damascus, fr. Damascus the
city, Gr. . See Damask, and cf. Damaskeen, Damaskin, Damson.]

Defn: Of or relating to Damascus.

DAMASCENE
Dam"as*cene, n.

Defn: A kind of plume, now called damson. See Damson.

DAMASCENE
Dam"as*cene, v. t.

Defn: Same as Damask, or Damaskeen, v. t. "Damascened armor."
Beaconsfield. "Cast and damascened steel." Ure.

DAMASCUS
Da*mas"cus, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A city of Syria. Damascus blade, a sword or scimiter, made
chiefly at Damascus, having a variegated appearance of watering, and
proverbial for excellence.
 -- Damascus iron, or Damascus twist, metal formed of thin bars or
wires of iron and steel elaborately twisted and welded together; used
for making gun barrels, etc., of high quality, in which the surface,
when polished and acted upon by acid, has a damasc appearance.
 -- Damascus steel. See Damask steel, under Damask, a.

DAMASCUS STEEL
Da*mas"cus steel.

Defn: See Damask steel, under Damask.

DAMASK
Dam"ask, n. Etym: [From the city Damascus, L. Damascus, Gr. , Heb.
Dammesq, Ar. Daemeshq; cf. Heb. d'meseq damask; cf. It. damasco, Sp.
damasco, F. damas. Cf. Damascene, DamassÉ.]

1. Damask silk; silk woven with an elaborate pattern of flowers and
the like. "A bed of ancient damask." W. Irving.

2. Linen so woven that a pattern in produced by the different
directions of the thread, without contrast of color.

3. A heavy woolen or worsted stuff with a pattern woven in the same
way as the linen damask; -- made for furniture covering and hangings.

4. Damask or Damascus steel; also, the peculiar markings or "water"
of such steel.

5. A deep pink or rose color. Fairfax.

DAMASK
Dam"ask, a.

1. Pertaining to, or originating at, the city of Damascus; resembling
the products or manufactures of Damascus.

2. Having the color of the damask rose.
But let concealment, like a worm i' the bud, Feed on her damask
cheek. Shak.
Damask color, a deep rose-color like that of the damask rose.
 -- Damask plum, a small dark-colored plum, generally called damson.
 -- Damask rose (Bot.), a large, pink, hardy, and very fragrant
variety of rose (Rosa damascena) from Damascus. "Damask roses have
not been known in England above one hundred years." Bacon.
 -- Damask steel, or Damascus steel, steel of the kind originally
made at Damascus, famous for its hardness, and its beautiful texture,
ornamented with waving lines; especially, that which is inlaid with
damaskeening; -- formerly much valued for sword blades, from its
great flexibility and tenacity.

DAMASK
Dam"ask, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Damasked; p. pr. & vb. n. Damasking.]

Defn: To decorate in a way peculiar to Damascus or attributed to
Damascus; particularly: (a) with flowers and rich designs, as silk;
(b) with inlaid lines of gold, etc., or with a peculiar marking or
"water," as metal. See Damaskeen.
Mingled metal damasked o'er with gold. Dryde
On the soft, downy bank, damasked with flowers. Milton.

DAMASKEEN; DAMASKEN
Dam"as*keen`, Dam"as*ken, v. t. Etym: [F. damaschinare. See
Damascene, v.]

Defn: To decorate, as iron, steel, etc., with a peculiar marking or
"water" produced in the process of manufacture, or with designs
produced by inlaying or incrusting with another metal, as silver or
gold, or by etching, etc., to damask.
Damaskeening is is partly mosaic work, partly engraving, and partly
carving. Ure.

DAMASKIN
Dam"as*kin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. damasquin, adj., It. damaschino, Sp.
damasquino. See Damaskeen.]

Defn: A sword of Damask steel.
No old Toledo blades or damaskins. Howell

DAMASSE
Da*mas*sé", a. Etym: [F. damassé, fr. damas. See Damask.]

Defn: Woven like damask.
 -- n.

Defn: A damassé fabric, esp. one of linen.

DAMASSIN
Dam"as*sin, n. Etym: [F., fr. damas. See Damask.]

Defn: A kind of modified damask or blocade.

DAMBONITE
Dambo*nite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. dambonite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline, sugary substance obtained from an African
caotchouc.

DAMBOSE
Dam"bose, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline vari ety of fruit sugar obtained from dambonite.

DAME
Dame, n. Etym: [F. dame, LL. domna, fr. L. domina mistress, lady,
fem. of dominus master, ruler, lord; akin to domare to tame, subdue.
See Tame, and cf. Dam mother, Dan, Danger, Dangeon, Dungeon, Dominie,
Don, n., Duenna.]

1. A mistress of a family, who is a lady; a womam in authority;
especially, a lady.
Then shall these lords do vex me half so much, As that proud dame,
the lord protector's wife. Shak.

2. The mistress of a family in common life, or the mistress of a
common school; as, a dame's school.
In the dame's classes at the village school. Emerson.

3. A woman in general, esp. an elderly woman.

4. A mother; -- applied to human beings and quadrupeds. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

DAMEWORT
Dame"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A cruciferrous plant (Hesperis matronalis), remarkable for its
fragrance, especially toward the close of the day; -- called also
rocket and dame's violet. Loudon.

DAMIANA
Da`mi*a"na, n. Etym: [NL.; of uncertain origin.] (Med.)

Defn: A Mexican drug, used as an aphrodisiac.

Note: There are several varieties derived from different plants, esp.
from a species of Turnera and from Bigelovia veneta. Wood & Bache.

DAMIANIST
Da"mi*an*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Damian, patriarch of Alexandria in the 6th
century, who held heretical opinions on the doctrine of the Holy
Trinity.

DAMMAR; DAMMARA
Dam"mar, Dam"ma*ra, n. Etym: [Jav. & Malay. damar.]

Defn: An oleoresin used in making varnishes; dammar gum; dammara
resin. It is obtained from certain resin trees indigenous to the East
Indies, esp. Shorea robusta and the dammar pine. Dammar pine, (Bot.),
a tree of the Moluccas (Agathis, or Dammara, orientalis), yielding
dammar.

DAMMARA
Dam"ma*ra, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A large tree of the order Coniferæ, indigenous to the East
Indies and Australasia; -- called also Agathis. There are several
species.

DAMN
Damn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Damned; p. pr. & vb. n. Damning.] Etym:
[OE. damnen dap), OF. damner, dampner, F. damner, fr. L. damnare,
damnatum, to condemn, fr. damnum damage, a fine, penalty. Cf.
Condemn, Damage.]

1. To condemn; to declare guilty; to doom; to adjudge to punishment;
to sentence; to censhure.
He shall not live; look, with a spot I damn him. Shak.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: To doom to punishment in the future world; to consign to
perdition; to curse.

3. To condemn as bad or displeasing, by open expression, as by
denuciation, hissing, hooting, etc.
You are not so arrant a critic as to damn them [the works of modern
poets] . . . without hearing. Pope.
Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer, And without sneering
teach the rest to sneer. Pope.

Note: Damn is sometimes used interjectionally, imperatively, and
intensively.

DAMN
Damn, v. i.

Defn: To invoke damnation; to curse. "While I inwardly damn."
Goldsmith.

DAMNABILITY
Dam`na*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being damnable; damnableness. Sir T. More.

DAMNABLE
Dam"na*ble, a. Etym: [L. damnabilis, fr. damnare: cf. F. damnable.
See Damn.]

1. Liable to damnation; deserving, or for which one deserves, to be
damned; of a damning nature.
A creature unprepared unmeet for dealth, And to transport him in the
mind hi is, Were damnable. Shak.

2. Odious; pernicious; detestable.
Begin, murderer; . . . leave thy damnable faces. Shak.

DAMNABLENESS
Dam"na*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of deserving damnation; execrableness.
The damnableness of this most execrable impiety. Prynne.

DAMNABLY
Dam"na*bly, adv.

1. In a manner to incur sever

2. Odiously; detestably; excessively. [Low]

DAMNATION
Dam*na"tion, n. Etym: [F. damnation, L. damnatio, fr. damnare. See
Damn.]

1. The state of being damned; condemnation; openly expressed
disapprobation.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: Condemnation to everlasting punishment in the future state, or
the punishment itself.
How can ye escape the damnation of hell Matt. xxiii. 33.
Wickedness is sin, and sin is damnation. Shak.

3. A sin daserving of everlasting punishment. [R.]
The deep damnation of his taking-off. Shak.

DAMNATORY
Dam"na*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. damnatorius, fr. damnator a condemner.]

Defn: Doo "Damnatory invectives." Hallam.

DAMNED
Damned, a.

1. Sentenced to punishment in a future state; condemned; consigned to
perdition.

2. Hateful; detestable; abominable.
But, O, what damned minutes tells he o'er Who doats, yet doubts,
suspects, yet strongly loves. Shak.

DAMNIFIC
Dam*nif"ic, a. Etym: [L. damnificus; damnum damage, loss + facere to
make. See Damn.]

Defn: Procuring or causing loss; mischievous; injurious.

DAMNIFICATION
Dam`ni*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [LL. damnificatio.]

Defn: That which causes damage or loss.

DAMNIFY
Dam"ni*fy, v. t. Etym: [LL. damnificare, fr. L. damnificus: cf. OF.
damnefier. See Damnific.]

Defn: To cause loss or damage to; to injure; to imparir. [R.]
This work will ask as many more officials to make expurgations and
expunctions, that the commonwealth of learning be not damnified.
Milton.

DAMNING
Damn"ing, a.

Defn: That damns; damnable; as, damning evidence of guilt.

DAMNINGNESS
Damn"ing*ness, n.

Defn: Tendency to bring damnation. "The damningness of them [sins]."
Hammond.

DAMNUM
dam"num, n. Etym: [L.] (law)

Defn: Harm; detriment, either to character or property.

DAMOSEL; DAMOSELLA; DAMOISELLE
Dam"o*sel, Dam`o*sel"la, Da`moi`selle", n.

Defn: See Damsel. [Archaic]

DAMOURITE
Dam"our*ite, n. Etym: [Ater the French chemist Damour.] (Min.)

Defn: A kind of Muscovite, or potash mica, containing water.

DAMP
Damp, n. Etym: [Akin to LG., D., & Dan. damp vapor, steam, fog, G.
dampf, Icel. dampi, Sw. damb dust, and to MNG. dimpfen to smoke, imp.
dampf.]

1. Moisture; humidity; fog; fogginess; vapor.
Night . . . with black air Accompanied, with damps and dreadful
gloom. Milton.

2. Dejection; depression; cloud of the mind.
Even now, while thus I stand blest in thy presence, A secret damp of
grief comes o'er my soul. Addison.
It must have thrown a damp over your autumn excursion. J. D. Forbes.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A gaseous prodact, formed in coal mines, old wells, pints, etc.
Choke damp, a damp consisting principally of carboniCarbonic acid,
under Carbonic.
 -- Damp sheet, a curtain in a mine gallery to direct air currents
and prevent accumulation of gas.
 -- Fire damp, a damp consisting chiefly of light carbureted
hydrogen; -- so called from its tendence to explode when mixed with
atmospheric air and brought into contact with flame.

DAMP
Damp, a. [Compar. Damper; superl. Dampest.]

1. Being in a state between dry and wet; moderately wet; moist;
humid.
O'erspread with a damp sweat and holy fear. Dryden.

2. Dejected; depressed; sunk. [R.]
All these and more came flocking, but with looks Downcast and damp.
Milton.

DAMP
Damp, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Damped; p. pr. & vb. n. Damping.] Etym:
[OE. dampen to choke, suffocate. See Damp, n.]

1. To render damp; to moisten; to make humid, or moderately wet; to
dampen; as, to damp cloth.

2. To put out, as fire; to depress or deject; to deaden; to cloud; to
check or restrain, as action or vigor; to make dull; to weaken; to
discourage. "To damp your tender hopes." Akenside.
Usury dulls and damps all industries, improvements, and new
inventions, wherein money would be stirring if it were not for this
slug. Bacon.
How many a day has been damped and darkened by an angry word! Sir J.
Lubbock.
The failure of his enterprise damped the spirit of the soldiers.
Macaulay.

DAMPEN
Damp"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dampened; p. pr. & vb. n. Dampening.]

1. To make damp or moist; to make slightly wet.

2. To depress; to check; to make dull; to lessen.
In a way that considerably dampened our enthusiasm. The Century.

DAMPEN
Damp"en, v. i.

Defn: To become damp; to deaden. Byron.

DAMPER
Damp"er, n.

Defn: That which damps or checks; as: (a) A valve or movable plate in
the flue or other part of a stove, furnace, etc., used to check or
regulate the draught of air. (b) A contrivance, as in a pianoforte,
to deaden vibrations; or, as in other pieces of mechanism, to check
some action at a particular time.
Nor did Sabrina's presence seem to act as any damper at the modest
little festivities. W. Black.

DAMPISH
Damp"ish, a.

Defn: Moderately damp or moist.
 -- Damp"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Damp"ish*ness, n.

DAMPNE
Damp"ne, v. t.

Defn: To damn. [Obs.] Chaucer.

DAMPNESS
Damp"ness, n.

Defn: Moderate humidity; moisture; fogginess; moistness.

DAMP OFF
Damp" off`.

Defn: To decay and perish through excessive moisture.

DAMPY
Damp"y, a.

1. Somewhat damp. [Obs.] Drayton.

2. Dejected; gloomy; sorrowful. [Obs.] "Dispel dampy throughts."
Haywards.

DAMSEL
Dam"sel, n. Etym: [OE. damosel, damesel, damisel, damsel, fr. OF.
damoisele, damisele, gentlewoman, F. demoiselle young lady; cf. OF.
damoisel young nobleman, F. damoiseau; fr. LL. domicella,
dominicella, fem., domicellus, dominicellus, masc., dim. fr. L.
domina, dominus. See Dame, and cf. Demoiselle, Doncella.]

1. A young person, either male or female, of noble or gentle
extraction; as, Damsel Pepin; Damsel Richard, Prince of Wales. [Obs.]

2. A young unmarried woman; a gerl; a maiden.
With her train of damsels she was gone, In shady walks the scorching
heat to shum. Dryden.
Sometimes a troop of damsels glad, . . . Goes by to towered Cameleot.
Tennyson.

3. (Milling)

Defn: An attachment to a millstone spindle for shaking the hoppe

DAMSON
Dam"son, n. Etym: [OE. damasin the Damascus plum, fr. L. Damascenus.
See Damascene.]

Defn: A small oval plum of a blue color, the fruit of a variety of
the Prunus domestica; -- called also damask plum.

DAN
Dan, n. Etym: [OE. dan, danz, OF. danz (prop. only nom.), dan,
master, fr. L. dominus. See Dame.]

Defn: A title of honor equivalent to master, or sir. [Obs.]
Old Dan Geoffry, in gently spright The pure wellhead of poetry did
dwell. Spenser.
What time Dan Abraham left the Chaldee land. Thomson.

DAN
Dan, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Mining)

Defn: A small truck or sledge used in coal mines.

DANAIDE
Da"na*ide, n. Etym: [From the mythical Danaides, who were condemned
to fill with water a vessel full of holes.] (Mach.)

Defn: A water wheel having a vertical axis, and an inner and outer
tapering shell, between which are vanes or floats attached usually to
both shells, but sometimes only to one.

DANAITE
Da"na*ite, n. Etym: [Named after J. Freeman Dana.] (Min.)

Defn: A cobaltiferous variety of arsenopyrite.

DANALITE
Da"na*lite, n. Etym: [Named after James Dwight Dana.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occuring in octahedral crystals, also massive, of a
reddish color. It is a silicate of iron, zinc manganese, and
glicinum, containing sulphur.

DANBURITE
Dan"bu*rite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A borosilicate of lime, first found at Danbury, Conn. It is
near the topaz in form. Dana.

DANCE
Dance, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Danced; p. pr. & vb. n. Dancing.] Etym:
[F. danser, fr. OHG. dans to draw; akin to dinsan to draw, Goth.
apinsan, and prob. from the same root (meaning to stretch) as E.
thin. See Thin.]

1. To move with measured steps, or to a musical accompaniment; to go
through, either alone or in company with others, with a regulated
succession of movements, (commonly) to the sound of music; to trip or
leap rhytmically.
Jack shall pipe and Gill shall dance. Wiher.
Good shepherd, what fair swain is this Which dances with your dauther
Shak.

2. To move nimbly or merrily; to express pleasure by motion; to
caper; to frisk; to skip about.
Then, 'tis time to dance off. Thackeray.
More dances my rapt heart Than when I first my wedded mistress saw.
Shak.
Shadows in the glassy waters dance. Byron.
Where rivulets dance their wayward round. Wordsworth.
To dance on a rope, or To dance on nothing, to be hanged.

DANCE
Dance, v. t.

Defn: To cause to dance, or move nimbly or merrily about, or up and
down; to dandle.
To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind. Shak.
Thy grandsire loved thee well; Many a time he danced thee on his
knee. Shak.
To dance attendance, to come and go obsequiously; to be or remain in
waiting, at the beck and call of another, with a view to please or
gain favor.
A man of his place, and so near our favor, To dance attendance on
their lordships' pleasure. Shak.

DANCE
Dance, n. Etym: [F. danse, of German origin. See Dance, v. i.]

1. The leaping, tripping, or measured stepping of one who dances; an
amusement, in which the movements of the persons are regulated by
art, in figures and in accord with music.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A tune by which dancing is regulated, as the minuet, the waltz,
the cotillon, etc.

Note: The word dance was used ironically, by the older writers, of
many proceedings besides dancing.
Of remedies of love she knew parchance For of that art she couth the
olde dance. Chaucer.
Dance of Death (Art), an allegorical representation of the power of
death over all, -- the old, the young, the high, and the low, being
led by a dancing skeleton.
 -- Morris dance. See Morris.
 -- To lead one a dance, to cause one to go through a series of
movements or experiences as if guided by a partner in a dance not
understood.

DANCER
Dan"cer, n.

Defn: One who dances or who practices dancing. The merry dancers,
beams of the northern lights when they rise and fall alternately
without any considerable change of length. See Aurora borealis, under
Aurora.

DANCERESS
Dan"cer*ess, n.

Defn: A female dancer. [Obs.] Wyclif.

DANCETTE
Dan`cet`té", a. Etym: [Cf. F. danché dancetté, dent tooth.] (Her.)

Defn: Deeply indented; having large teeth; thus, a fess dancetté has
only three teeth in the whole width of the escutcheon.

DANCING
Dan"cing, p. a. & vb. n.

Defn: from Dance. Dancing girl, one of the women in the East Indies
whose profession is to dance in the temples, or for the amusement of
spectators. There are various classes of dancing girls.
 -- Dancing master, a teacher of dancing.
 -- Dancing school, a school or place where dancing is taught.

DANCY
Dan"cy, a. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Dancetté.

DANDELION
Dan"de*li`on, n. Etym: [F. dent de lion lion's tooth, fr. L. dens
tooth + leo lion. See Tooth, n., and Lion.] (Bot.)

Defn: A well-known plant of the genus Taraxacum (T. officinale,
formerly called T. Dens-leonis and Leontodos Taraxacum) bearing
large, yellow, compound flowers, and deeply notched leaves.

DANDER
Dan"der, n. Etym: [Corrupted from dandruff.]

1. Dandruff or scurf on the head.

2. Anger or vexation; rage [Low] Halliwell.

DANDER
Dan"der, v. i. Etym: [See Dandle.]

Defn: To wander about; to saunter; to talk incoherently. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

DANDI
Dan"di, n. Etym: [Hind. , fr. an oar.]

Defn: A boatman; an oarsman. [India]

DANDIE
Dan"die, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a breed of small terriers; -- called also Dandie
Dinmont.

DANDIE DINMONT; DANDIE
Dan"die Din"mont, or Dan"die, n.

1.

Defn: In Scott's "Guy Mannering", a Border farmer of eccentric but
fine character, who owns two terriers claimed to be the progenitors
of the Dandie Dinmont terriers.

2.  One of a breed of terriers with short legs, long body, and rough
coat, originating in the country about the English and Scotch border.

DANDIFIED
Dan"di*fied, a.

Defn: Made up like a dandy; having the dress or manners of a dandy;
buckish.

DANDIFY
Dan"di*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dandified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Dandifying.] Etym: [Dandy + -fy.]

Defn: To cause to resemble a dandy; to make dandyish.

DANDIPRAT
Dan"di*prat, n. Etym: [Dandy + brat child.]

1. A little fellow; -- in sport or contempt. "A dandiprat hop-thumb."
Stanyhurst.

2. A small coin.
Henry VII. stamped a small coin called dandiprats. Camden.

DANDLE
Dan"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dandled; p. pr. & vb. n. Dandling.]
Etym: [Cf. G. dändeln to trifly, dandle, OD. & Prov. G. danten, G.
tand trifly, prattle; Scot. dandill, dander, to go about idly, to
trifly.]

1. To move up and down on one's knee or in one's arms, in
affectionate play, as an infant.
Ye shall be dandled . . . upon her knees. Is.

2. To treat with fondness, as if a child; to fondle; to toy with; to
pet.
They have put me in a silk gown and gaudy fool's cap; I as ashamed to
be dandled thus. Addison.
The book, thus dandled into popularity by bishops and good ladies,
contained many pieces of nursery eloquence. Jeffrey.

3. To play with; to put off or delay by trifles; to wheedle. [Obs.]
Captains do so dandle their doings, and dally in the service, as it
they would not have the enemy subdued. Spenser.

DANDLER
Dan"dler, n.

Defn: One who dandles or fondles.

DANDRIFF
Dan"driff, n.

Defn: See Dandruff. Swift.

DANDRUFF
Dandruff, n. Etym: [Prob. from W. toncrust, peel, skin + AS. dr
dirty, draffy, or W. drwg bad: cf. AS. tan a letter, an eruption. sq.
root240.]

Defn: A scurf which forms on the head, and comes off in small or
particles. [Written also dandriff.]

DANDY
Dan"dy, n.; pl. Dandies. Etym: [Cf. F. dandin, ninny, silly fellow,
dandiner to waddle, to play the fool; prob. allied to E. dandle.
Senses 2&3 are of uncertain etymol.]

1. One who affects special finery or gives undue attention to dress;
a fop; a coxcomb.

2. (Naut.)
(a) A sloop or cutter with a jigger on which a lugsail is set.
(b) A small sail carried at or near the stern of small boats; --
called also jigger, and mizzen.

3. A dandy roller. See below. Dandy brush, a yard whalebone brush.
 -- Dandy fever. See Dengue.
 -- Dandy line, a kind of fishing line to which are attached several
crosspieces of whalebone which carry a hook at each end.
 -- Dandy roller, a roller sieve used in machines for making paper,
to press out water from the pulp, and set the paper.

DANDY-COCK; DANDY-HEN
Dan"dy-cock` (, n. masc., Dan"dy-hen` (, n. fem. Etym: [See Dandy.]

Defn: A bantam fowl.

DANDYISE; DANDYIZE
Dan"dy*ise, v. t. & i.

Defn: To make, or to act, like a dandy; to dandify.

DANDYISH
Dan"dy*ish, a.

Defn: Like a dandy.

DANDYISM
Dan"dy*ism, n.

Defn: The manners and dress of a dandy; foppishness. Byron.

DANDYLING
Dan"dy*ling, n. Etym: [Dandy + .]

Defn: A little or insignificant dandy; a contemptible fop.

DANE
Dane, n. Etym: [LL. Dani: cf. AS. Dene.]

Defn: A native, or a naturalized inhabitant, of Denmark. Great Dane.
(Zoöl.) See Danish dog, under Danish.

DANEGELD; DANEGELT
Dane"geld`, Dane"gelt`, n. Etym: [AS. danegeld. See Dane, and Geld,
n.] (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: An annual tax formerly laid on the English nation to buy off
the ravages of Danish invaders, or to maintain forces to oppose them.
It afterward became a permanent tax, raised by an assessment, at
first of one shilling, afterward of two shillings, upon every hide of
land throughout the realm. Wharton's Law Dict. Tomlins.

DANEWORT
Dane"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A fetid European species of elder (Sambucus Ebulus); dwarf
elder; wallwort; elderwort; -- called also Daneweed, Dane's weed, and
Dane's-blood.

Note: [Said to grow on spots where battles were fought against the
Danes.]

DANG
Dang,

Defn: imp. of Ding. [Obs.]

DANG
Dang, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Ding.]

Defn: To dash. [Obs.]
Till she, o'ercome with anguish, shame, and rage, Danged down to hell
her loathsome carriage. Marlowe.

DANGER
Dan"ger, n. Etym: [OE. danger, daunger, power, arrogance, refusal,
difficulty, fr. OF. dagier, dongier (with same meaning), F. danger
danger, fr. an assumed LL. dominiarium power, authority, from L.
dominium power, property. See Dungeon, Domain, Dame.]

1. Authority; jurisdiction; control. [Obs.]
In dangerhad he . . . the young girls. Chaucer.

2. Power to harm; subjection or liability to penalty. [Obs.] See In
one's danger, below.
You stand within his danger, do you not Shak.
Covetousness of gains hath brought [them] in dangerof this statute.
Robynson (More's Utopia).

3. Exposure to injury, loss, pain, or other evil; peril; risk;
insecurity.

4. Difficulty; sparingness. [Obs.] Chaucer.

5. Coyness; disdainful behavior. [Obs.] Chaucer. In one's danger, in
one's power; liable to a penalty to be inflicted by him. [Obs.] This
sense is retained in the proverb, "Out of debt out of danger."
Those rich man in whose debt and danger they be not. Robynson (More's
Utopia).
-- To do danger, to cause danger. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- Peril; hazard; risk; jeopardy.
 -- Danger, Peril, Hazard, Risk, Jeopardy. Danger is the generic
term, and implies some contingent evil in prospect. Peril is instant
or impending danger; as, in peril of one's life. Hazard arises from
something fortuitous or beyond our control; as, the hazard of the
seas. Risk is doubtful or uncertain danger, often incurred
voluntarily; as, to risk an engagement. Jeopardy is extreme danger.
Danger of a contagious disease; the perils of shipwreck; the hazards
of speculation; the risk of daring enterprises; a life brought into
jeopardy.

DANGER
Dan"ger, v. t.

Defn: To endanger. [Obs.] Shak.

DANGERFUL
Dan"ger*ful, a.

Defn: Full of danger; dangerous. [Obs.] -- Dan"ger*ful*ly, adv.
[Obs.] Udall.

DANGERLESS
Dan"ger*less, a.

Defn: Free from danger. [R.]

DANGEROUS
Dan"ger*ous, a. Etym: [OE., haughty, difficult, dangerous, fr. OF.
dangereus, F. dangereux. See Danger.]

1. Attended or beset with danger; full of risk; perilous; hazardous;
unsafe.
Our troops set forth to-morrow; stay with us; The ways are dangerous.
Shak.
It is dangerous to assert a negative. Macaulay.

2. Causing danger; ready to do harm or injury.
If they incline to think you dangerous To less than gods. Milton.

3. In a condition of danger, as from illness; threatened with death.
[Colloq.] Forby. Bartlett.

4. Hard to suit; difficult to please. [Obs.]
My wages ben full strait, and eke full small; My lord to me is hard
and dangerous. Chaucer.

5. Reserved; not affable. [Obs.] "Of his speech dangerous." Chaucer.
 -- Dan"ger*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Dan"ger*ous*ness, n.

DANGLE
Dan"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Dangled; p. pr. & vb. n. Dangling.]
Etym: [Akin to Dan. dangle, dial. Sw. dangla, Dan. dingle, Sw.
dingla, Icel. dingla; perh. from E. ding.]

Defn: To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion.
he'd rather on a gibbet dangle Than miss his dear delight, to
wrangle. Hudibras.
From her lifted hand Dangled a length of ribbon. Tennyson.
To dangle about or after, to hang upon importunately; to court the
favor of; to beset.
The Presbyterians, and other fanatics that dangle after them, are
well inclined to pull down the present establishment. Swift.

DANGLE
Dan"gle, v. t.

Defn: To cause to dangle; to swing, as something suspended loosely;
as, to dangle the feet.
And the bridegroom stood dangling his bonnet and plume. Sir W. Scott.

DANGLEBERRY
Dan"gle*ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A dark blue, edible berry with a white bloom, and its shrub
(Gaylussacia frondosa) closely allied to the common huckleberry. The
bush is also called blue tangle, and is found from New England to
Kentucky, and southward.

DANGLER
Dan"gler, n.

Defn: One who dangles about or after others, especially after women;
a trifler. " Danglers at toilets." Burke.

DANIEL
Dan"i*el, n.

Defn: A Hebrew prophet distinguished for sagacity and ripeness of
judgment in youth; hence, a sagacious and upright judge.
A Daniel come to judgment. Shak.

DANISH
Dan"ish, a. Etym: [See Dane.]

Defn: Belonging to the Danes, or to their language or country.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of the Danes. Danish dog (Zoöl.), one of a large
and powerful breed of dogs reared in Denmark; -- called also great
Dane. See Illustration in Appendix.

DANITE
Dan"ite, n.

1. A descendant of Dan; an Israelite of the tribe of Dan. Judges
xiii. 2.

2. Etym: [So called in remembrance of the prophecy in Gen. xlix. 17,
"Dan shall be a serpent by the way," etc.]

Defn: One of a secret association of Mormons, bound by an oath to
obey the heads of the church in all things. [U. S.]

DANK
Dank, a. Etym: [Cf. dial, Sw. dank a moist place in a field, Icel.
dökk pit, pool; possibly akin to E. damp or to daggle dew.]

Defn: Damp; moist; humid; wet.
Now that the fields are dank and ways are mire. Milton.
Cheerless watches on the cold, dank ground. Trench.

DANK
Dank, n.

Defn: Moisture; humidity; water. [Obs.]

DANK
Dank, n.

Defn: A small silver coin current in Persia.

DANKISH
Dank"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat dank.
 -- Dank"ish*ness, n.
In a dark and dankish vault at home. Shak.

DANNEBROG
Dan"ne*brog, n.

Defn: The ancient battle standard of Denmark, bearing figures of
cross and crown. Order of Dannebrog, an ancient Danish order of
knighthood.

DANSEUSE
Dan`seuse", n. Etym: [F., fr. danser to dance.]

Defn: a professional female dancer; a woman who dances at a public
exhibition as in a ballet.

DANSK
Dansk, a. Etym: [Dan.]

Defn: Danish. [Obs.]

DANSKER
Dansk"er, n.

Defn: A Dane. [Obs.]
Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris. Shak.

DANTEAN
Dan*te"an, a.

Defn: Relatingto, emanating from or resembling, the poet Dante or his
writings.

DANTESQUE
Dan*tesque", a. Etym: [Cf. It. Dantesco.]

Defn: Dantelike; Dantean. Earle.

DANUBIAN
Da*nu"bi*an, a.

Defn: Pertainingto, or bordering on, the river Danube.

DAP
Dap, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Dip.] (Angling)

Defn: To drop the bait gently on the surface of the water.
To catch a club by dapping with a grasshoper. Walton.

DAPATICAL
Da*pat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. dapaticus, fr. daps feast.]

Defn: Sumptuous in cheer. [Obs.] Bailey.

DAPHNE
Daph"ne, n. Etym: [L., a laurel tree, from Gr. .]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of diminutive Shrubs, mostly evergreen, and with
fragrant blossoms.

2. (Myth.)

Defn: A nymph of Diana, fabled to have been changed into a laurel
tree.

DAPHNETIN
Daph"ne*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless crystalline substance, C9H6O4, extracted from
daphnin.

DAPHNIA
Daph"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of the genus Daphnia.

DAPHNIN
Daph"nin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. daphnine.] (Chem.)
(a) A dark green bitter resin extracted from the mezereon (Daphne
mezereum) and regarded as the essential principle of the plant. [R.]
(b) A white, crystalline, bitter substance, regarded as a glucoside,
and extracted from Daphne mezereum and D. alpina.

DAPHNOMANCY
Daph"no*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. da`fnh the laurel + -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of the laurel.

DAPIFER
Dap"i*fer, n. Etym: [L., daps a feast + ferre to bear.]

Defn: One who brings meat to the table; hence, in some countries, the
official title of the grand master or steward of the king's or a
nobleman's household.

DAPPER
Dap"per, a. Etym: [OE. daper; prob. fr. D. dapper brave, valiant;
akin to G. tapfer brave, OHG. taphar heavy, weighty, OSlav. dobrû
good, Russ. dobrui. Cf. Deft.]

Defn: Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress or
appearance; lively.
He wondered how so many provinces could be held in subjection by such
a dapper little man. Milton.
The dapper ditties that I wont devise. Spenser.
Sharp-nosed, dapper steam yachts. Julian Hawthorne.

DAPPERLING
Dap"per*ling, n.

Defn: A dwarf; a dandiprat. [r.]

DAPPLE
Dap"ple, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. depill a spot, a dot, a dog with spots
over the eyes, dapi a pool, and E. dimple.]

Defn: One of the spots on a dappled animal.
He has . . . as many eyes on his body as my gray mare hath dapples.
Sir P. Sidney.