

DIP
Dip, v. i.

1. To immerse one's self; to become plunged in a liquid; to sink.
The sun's rim dips; the stars rush out. Coleridge.

2. To perform the action of plunging some receptacle, as a dipper,
ladle. etc.; into a liquid or a soft substance and removing a part.
Whoever dips too deep will find death in the pot. L'Estrange.

3. To pierce; to penetrate; -- followed by in or into.
When I dipt into the future. Tennyson.

4. To enter slightly or cursorily; to engage one's self desultorily
or by the way; to partake limitedly; -- followed by in or into.
"Dipped into a multitude of books." Macaulay.

5. To incline downward from the plane of the horizon; as, strata of
rock dip.

6. To dip snuff. [Southern U.S.]

DIP
Dip, n.

1. The action of dipping or plunging for a moment into a liquid. "The
dip of oars in unison." Glover.

2. Inclination downward; direction below a horizontal line; slope;
pitch.

3. A liquid, as a sauce or gravy, served at table with a ladle or
spoon. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett.

4. A dipped candle. [Colloq.] Marryat. Dip of the horizon (Astron.),
the angular depression of the seen or visible horizon below the true
or natural horizon; the angle at the eye of an observer between a
horizontal line and a tangent drawn from the eye to the surface of
the ocean.
 -- Dip of the needle, or Magnetic dip, the angle formed, in a
vertical plane, by a freely suspended magnetic needle, or the line of
magnetic force, with a horizontal line; -- called also inclination.
 -- Dip of a stratum (Geol.), its greatest angle of inclination to
the horizon, or that of a line perpendicular to its direction or
strike; -- called also the pitch.

DIPASCHAL
Di*pas"chal, a. Etym: [Pref. di- + paschal.]

Defn: Including two passovers. Carpenter.

DIPCHICK
Dip"chick`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Dabchick.

DIPETALOUS
Di*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. di- + petalous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two petals; two-petaled.

DIPHENYL
Di*phe"nyl, n. Etym: [Pref. di- + phenyl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance, C6H5.C6H5, obtained by leading
benzene through a heated iron tube. It consists of two benzene or
phenyl radicals united.

DIPHTHERIA
Diph*the"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. membrane): cf. depsere to
knead.] (Med.)

Defn: A very dangerous contagious disease in which the air passages,
and especially the throat, become coated with a false membrane,
produced by the solidification of an inflammatory exudation. Cf.
Group.

DIPHTHERIAL; DIPHTHERIC
Diph*the"ri*al, Diph*ther"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to diphtheria; diphtheritic.

DIPHTHERITIC
Diph`the*rit"ic, a. (Med.)

1. Pertaining to, or connected with, diphtheria.

2. Having characteristics resembling those of diphtheria; as,
diphtheritic inflammation of the bladder.

DIPHTHONG
Diph"thong (; 115, 277), n. Etym: [L. diphthongus, Gr. diphthongue.]
(Orthoëpy)
(a) A coalition or union of two vowel sounds pronounced in one
syllable; as, ou in out, oi in noise; -- called a proper diphthong.
(b) A vowel digraph; a union of two vowels in the same syllable, only
one of them being sounded; as, ai in rain, eo in people; -- called an
improper diphthong.

DIPHTHONG
Diph"thong, v. t.

Defn: To form or pronounce as a diphthong; diphthongize. [R.]

DIPHTHONGAL
Diph*thon"gal, a.

Defn: Relating or belonging to a diphthong; having the nature of a
diphthong.
 -- Diph*thon"gal*ly, adv.

DIPHTHONGALIZE
Diph*thon"gal*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make into a diphthong; to pronounce as a diphthong.

DIPHTHONGATION
Diph`thon*ga"tion, n.

Defn: See Diphthongization.

DIPHTHONGIC
Diph*thong"ic, a.

Defn: Of the nature of diphthong; diphthongal. H. Sweet.

DIPHTHONGIZATION
Diph`thong*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of changing into a diphthong. H. Sweet.

DIPHTHONGIZE
Diph"thong*ize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To change into a diphthong, as by affixing another vowel to a
simple vowel. "The diphthongized long vowels." H. Sweet.

DIPHYCERCAL
Diph`y*cer"cal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having the tail fin divided into two equal parts by the
notochord, or end of the vertebral column; protocercal. See
Protocercal.

DIPHYGENIC
Diph`y*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. -genic.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two modes of embryonic development.

DIPHYLLOUS
Diph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. diphylle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two leaves, as a calyx, etc.

DIPHYODONT
Diph"y*o*dont, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having two successive sets of teeth (deciduous and permanent),
one succeeding the other; as, a diphyodont mammal; diphyodont
dentition; -- opposed to monophyodont.
 -- n.

Defn: An animal having two successive sets of teeth.

DIPHYOZOOID
Diph`y*o*zo"oid, n. Etym: [Gr. zooid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the free-swimming sexual zooids of Siphonophora.

DIPLANAR
Di*pla"nar, a. Etym: [Pref. di- + plane.] (Math.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to two planes.

DIPLEIDOSCOPE
Di*plei"do*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Astron.)

Defn: An instrument for determining the time of apparent noon. It
consists of two mirrors and a plane glass disposed in the form of a
prism, so that, by the reflections of the sun's rays from their
surfaces, two images are presented to the eye, moving in opposite
directions, and coinciding at the instant the sun's center is on the
meridian.

DIPLEX
Di"plex, a. [Pref. di- + -plex, as in duplex.] (Teleg.)

Defn: Pertaining to the sending of two messages in the same direction
at the same time. Diplex and contraplex are the two varieties of
duplex.

DIPLOBLASTIC
Dip`lo*blas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. -blast + -ic.] (Biol.)

Defn: Characterizing the ovum when it has two primary germinal
layers.

DIPLOCARDIAC
Dip`lo*car"di*ac, a. Etym: [Gr. cardiac.] (Anat.)

Defn: Having the heart completely divided or double, one side
systemic, the other pulmonary.

DIPLOCOCCUS
Dip`lo*coc"cus, n.; pl. Diplococci. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A form of micrococcus in which cocci are united in a binary
manner. See Micrococcus.

DIPLOE
Dip"lo*ë, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The soft, spongy, or cancellated substance between the plates
of the skull.

DIPLOETIC
Dip`lo*et"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Diploic.

DIPLOGENIC
Dip`lo*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Partaking of the nature of two bodies; producing two
substances. Wright.

DIPLOGRAPH
Dip"lo*graph, n. [Gr.  double + -graph.]

Defn: An instrument used for double writing, as one for producing
embossed writing for the blind and ordinary writing at the same time.
-- Dip`lo*graph"ic*al (#), a. -- Dip*log"ra*phy (#), n.

DIPLOIC
Di*plo"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the diploë.

DIPLOID
Dip"loid, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A solid bounded by twenty-four similar quadrilateral faces. It
is a hemihedral form of the hexoctahedron.

DIPLOMA
Di*plo"ma, n.; pl. Diplomas. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Double.]

Defn: A letter or writing, usually under seal, conferring some
privilege, honor, or power; a document bearing record of a degree
conferred by a literary society or educational institution.

DIPLOMACY
Di*plo"ma*cy, n. Etym: [F. diplomatie. This word, like supremacy,
retains the accent of its original. See Diploma.]

1. The art and practice of conducting negotiations between nations
(particularly in securing treaties), including the methods and forms
usually employed.

2. Dexterity or skill in securing advantages; tact.

3. The body of ministers or envoys resident at a court; the
diplomatic body. [R.] Burke.

DIPLOMAT; DIPLOMATE
Dip"lo*mat, Dip"lo*mate, n. Etym: [F. diplomate.]

Defn: A diplomatist.

DIPLOMATE
Dip"lo*mate, v. t.

Defn: To invest with a title o [R.] Wood.

DIPLOMATIAL
Dip`lo*ma"tial, a.

Defn: Diplomatic. [R.]

DIPLOMATIC; DIPLOMATICAL
Dip`lo*mat"ic, Dip`lo*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. diplomatique.]

1. Pertaining to diplomacy; relating to the foreign ministers at a
court, who are called the diplomatic body.

2. Characterized by tact and shrewdness; dexterous; artful; as,
diplomatic management.

3. Pertaining to diplomatics; paleographic. Astle.

DIPLOMATIC
Dip`lo*mat"ic, n.

Defn: A minister, official agent, or envoy to a foreign court; a
diplomatist.

DIPLOMATICALLY
Dip`lo*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: According to the rules of diplomacy; in the manner of a
diplomatist; artfully.

DIPLOMATICS
Dip`lo*mat"ics, n.

Defn: The science of diplomas, or the art of deciphering ancient
writings, and determining their age, authenticity, etc.; paleography.

DIPLOMATISM
Di*plo"ma*tism, n.

Defn: Diplomacy. [R.]

DIPLOMATIST
Di*plo"ma*tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. diplomatiste a student of
diplomatics.]

Defn: A person employed in, or skilled in, diplomacy; a diplomat.
In ability, Avaux had no superior among the numerous able diplomatics
whom his country then possessed. Macaulay.

DIPLOPIA; DIPLOPY
Di*plo"pi*a, Dip"lo*py, n. Etym: [NL. diplopia, from Gr. diplopie.]
(Med.)

Defn: The act or state of seeing double.

Note: In crossed or heteronymous diplopia the image seen by the right
eye is upon the left hand, and that seen by the left eye is upon the
right hand. In homonymous diplopia the image seen by the right eye is
on the right side, that by the left eye on the left side. In vertical
diplopia one image stands above the other.

DIPLOPOD
Dip"lo*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Diplopoda.

DIPLOPODA
Di*plop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of myriapods having two pairs of legs on each segment;
the Chilognatha.

DIPLOSTEMONOUS
Dip`lo*stem"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having twice as many stamens as petals, as the geranium. R.
Brown.

DIPLOSTEMONY
Dip`lo*stem"o*ny, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The condition of being diplostemonous.

DIPNEUMONA
Dip*neu"mo*na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of spiders having only two lunglike organs. [Written
also Dipneumones.]

DIPNOI
Dip"no*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of ganoid fishes, including the living genera Ceratodus
and Lepidosiren, which present the closest approximation to the
Amphibia. The air bladder acts as a lung, and the nostrils open
inside the mouth. See Ceratodus, and Illustration in Appendix.

DIPODY
Dip"o*dy, n.; pl. Dipodies. Etym: [Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: Two metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure.
Hadley.
Trochaic, iambic, and anapestic verses . . . are measured by
dipodies. W. W. Goodwin.

DIPOLAR
Di*po"lar, a. Etym: [Pre. di- + polar. Cf. Bipolar.]

Defn: Having two poles, as a magnetic bar.

DIPPEL'S OIL
Dip"pel's oil`. (Chem.) Etym: [From the name of the inventor.]

Defn: See Bone oil, under Bone.

DIPPER
Dip"per, n.

1. One who, or that which, dips; especially, a vessel used to dip
water or other liquid; a ladle.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small grebe; the dabchick.
(b) The buffel duck.
(c) The water ouzel (Cinolus aquaticus) of Europe.
(d) The American dipper or ouzel (Cinclus Mexicanus). The Dipper
(Astron.), the seven principal stars in the constellation of the
Great Bear; popularly so called from their arrangement in the form of
a dipper; -- called also Charles's Wain. See Ursa Major, under Ursa.

DIPPING
Dip"ping, n.

1. The act or process of immersing.

2. The act of inclining downward.

3. The act of lifting or moving a liquid with a dipper, ladle, or the
like.

4. The process of cleaning or brightening sheet metal or metalware,
esp. brass, by dipping it in acids, etc.

5. The practice of taking snuff by rubbing the teeth or gums with a
stick or brush dipped in snuff. [U.S.] Dipping needle, a magnetic
needle suspended at its center of gravity, and moving freely in a
vertical plane, so as to indicate on a graduated circle the magnetic
dip or inclination.

DIPRISMATIC
Di`pris*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Prefix di- + prismatic.]

Defn: Doubly prismatic.

DIPROPARGYL
Di`pro*par"gyl, n. Etym: [Prefix di- + propargyl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A pungent, mobile, volatile liquid, C6H6, produced artificially
from certain allyl derivatives. Though isomeric with benzine, it is
very different in its chemical relations. Called also dipropinyl.

DIPROPYL
Di*pro"pyl, n. Etym: [Pref. di- + propyl.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the hexane paraffins, found in petroleum, consisting of
two propyl radicals. See Hexane.

DIPROTODON
Di*pro"to*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct Quaternary marsupial from Australia, about as large
as the hippopotamus; -- so named because of its two large front
teeth. See Illustration in Appendix.

DIPSAS
Dip"sas, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A serpent whose bite was fabled to produce intense thirst. Milton.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of harmless colubrine snakes.

DIPSETIC
Dip*set"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Tending to produce thirst. Wright.

DIPSEY; DIPSIE; DIPSY
Dip"sey, Dip"sie, Dip"sy, a.

Defn: Deep-sea; as, a dipsey line; a dipsy lead. [Sailor's Cant]

DIPSEY; DIPSIE; DIPSY
Dip"sey, Dip"sie, Dip"sy, n.

1. A sinker attached to a fishing line; also, a line having several
branches, each with such a sinker, used in deep-sea fishing. [Local,
U. S.]

2.  (Naut.) A deep-sea lead. [Rare]

DIPSOMANIA
Dip`so*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid an uncontrollable craving (often periodic) for drink,
esp. for alcoholic liquors; also improperly used to denote acute and
chronic alcoholism.

DIPSOMANIAC
Dip`so*ma"ni*ac, n.

Defn: One who has an irrepressible desire for alcoholic drinks.

DIPSOMANIACAL
Dip`so*ma*ni"a*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to dipsomania.

DIPSOSIS
Dip*so"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Excessive thirst produced by disease.

DIPTERA
Dip"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. diptère.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive order of insects having only two functional wings
and two balancers, as the house fly, mosquito, etc. They have a
suctorial proboscis, often including two pairs of sharp organs
(mandibles and maxillæ) with which they pierce the skin of animals.
They undergo a complete metamorphosis, their larvæ (called maggots)
being usually without feet.

DIPTERAL
Dip"ter*al, a.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two wings only; belonging to the order Diptera.

2. (Anc. Arch.)

Defn: Having a double row of columns on each on the flanks, as well
as in front and rear; -- said of a temple.

DIPTERAN
Dip"ter*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect of the order Diptera.

DIPTEROCARPUS
Dip`te*ro*car"pus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees found in the East Indies, some species of
which produce a fragrant resin, other species wood oil. The fruit has
two long wings.

DIPTEROUS
Dip"ter*ous, a.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two wings, as certain insects; belonging to the order
Diptera.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having two wings; two-winged.

DIPTERYGIAN
Dip`ter*yg"i*an, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two dorsal fins; -- said of certain fishes.

DIPTOTE
Dip"tote, n. Etym: [Gr. diptote.] (Gram.)

Defn: A noun which has only two cases. Andrews.

DIPTYCH
Dip"tych, n. Etym: [L. diptycha, pl., fr. Gr.

1. Anything consisting of two leaves. Especially:
(a) (Roman Antiq.) A writing tablet consisting of two leaves of rigid
material connected by hinges and shutting together so as to protect
the writing within.
(b) A picture or series of pictures painted on two tablets connected
by hinges. See Triptych.

2. A double catalogue, containing in one part the names of living,
and in the other of deceased, ecclesiastics and benefactors of the
church; a catalogue of saints.

DIPYRE
Di*pyre", n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of the scapolite group; -- so called from the double
effect of fire upon it, in fusing it, and rendering it
phosphorescent.

DIPYRENOUS
Di`py*re"nous, a. Etym: [Pref. di- + pyrene.] (Bot.)

Defn: Containing two stones or nutlets.

DIPYRIDINE
Di*pyr"i*dine (; 104), n. Etym: [Pref. di- + pyridine.] (Geom.)

Defn: A polymeric form of pyridine, C10H10N2, obtained as a colorless
oil by the action of sodium on pyridine.

DIPYRIDYL
Di*pyr"i*dyl, n. Etym: [Pref. di- + pyridine + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline nitrogenous base, C10H8N2, obtained by the
reduction of pyridine.

DIRADIATION
Di*ra`di*a"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. di- + radiation.]

Defn: The emission and diffusion of rays of light.

DIRE
Dire, a. [Compar. Direr; superl. Direst.] Etym: [L. dirus; of
uncertain origin.]

1. Ill-boding; portentous; as, dire omens.

2. Evil in great degree; dreadful; dismal; horrible; terrible;
lamentable.
Dire was the tossing, deep the groans. Milton.
Gorgons and hydras and chimeras dire. Milton.

DIRECT
Di*rect", a. Etym: [L. directus, p. p. of dirigere to direct: cf. F.
direct. See Dress, and cf. Dirge.]

1. Straight; not crooked, oblique, or circuitous; leading by the
short or shortest way to a point or end; as, a direct line; direct
means.
What is direct to, what slides by, the question. Locke.

2. Straightforward; not of crooked ways, or swerving from truth and
openness; sincere; outspoken.
Be even and direct with me. Shak.

3. Immediate; express; plain; unambiguous.
He howhere, that I know, says it in direct words. Locke.
A direct and avowed interference with elections. Hallam.

4. In the line of descent; not collateral; as, a descendant in the
direct line.

5. (Astron.)

Defn: In the direction of the general planetary motion, or from west
to east; in the order of the signs; not retrograde; -- said of the
motion of a celestial body. Direct action. (Mach.) See Direct-acting.
 -- Direct discourse (Gram.), the language of any one quoted without
change in its form; as, he said "I can not come;" -- correlative to
indirect discourse, in which there is change of form; as, he said
that he could not come. They are often called respectively by their
Latin names, oratio directa, and oratio obliqua.
 -- Direct evidence (Law), evidence which is positive or not
inferential; -- opposed to circumstantial, or indirect, evidence.
 -- This distinction, however, is merely formal, since there is no
direct evidence that is not circumstantial, or dependent on
circumstances for its credibility. Wharton.
 -- Direct examination (Law), the first examination of a witness in
the orderly course, upon the merits. Abbott.
 -- Direct fire (Mil.), fire, the direction of which is perpendicular
to the line of troops or to the parapet aimed at.
 -- Direct process (Metal.), one which yields metal in working
condition by a single process from the ore. Knight.
 -- Direct tax, a tax assessed directly on lands, etc., and polls,
distinguished from taxes on merchandise, or customs, and from excise.

DIRECT
Di*rect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Directed; p. pr. & vb. n. Directing.]

1. To arrange in a direct or straight line, as against a mark, or
towards a goal; to point; to aim; as, to direct an arrow or a piece
of ordnance.

2. To point out or show to (any one), as the direct or right course
or way; to guide, as by pointing out the way; as, he directed me to
the left-hand road.
The Lord direct your into the love of God. 2 Thess. iii. 5.
The next points to which I will direct your attention. Lubbock.

3. To determine the direction or course of; to cause to go on in a
particular manner; to order in the way to a certain end; to regulate;
to govern; as, to direct the affairs of a nation or the movements of
an army.
I will direct their work in truth. Is. lxi. 8.

4. To point out to with authority; to instruct as a superior; to
order; as, he directed them to go.
I 'll first direct my men what they shall do. Shak.

5. To put a direction or address upon; to mark with the name and
residence of the person to whom anything is sent; to superscribe; as,
to direct a letter.

Syn.
 -- To guide; lead; conduct; dispose; manage; regulate; order;
instruct; command.

DIRECT
Di*rect", v. i.

Defn: To give direction; to point out a course; to act as guide.
Wisdom is profitable to direct. Eccl. x. 10.

DIRECT
Di*rect", n. (Mus.)

Defn: A character, thus [ Moore (Encyc. of Music).

DIRECT-ACTING
Di*rect"-act`ing, a. (Mach.)

Defn: Acting directly, as one part upon another, without the
intervention of other working parts. Direct-acting steam engine, one
in which motion is transmitted to the crank without the intervention
of a beam or lever; -- also called direct-action steam engine.
 -- Direct-acting steam pump, one in which the steam piston rod is
directly connected with the pump rod; -- also called direct-action
steam pump.

DIRECT ACTION
Direct action. (Trade unions)

Defn: See Syndicalism, below.

DIRECT-COUPLED
Di*rect"-cou"pled, a.

Defn: Coupled without intermediate connections, as an engine and a
dynamo.

Direct-coupled antenna (Wireless Teleg.), an antenna connected
electrically with one point of a closed oscillation circuit in
syntony with it and earthed.

DIRECT CURRENT
Direct current. (Elec.)
 (a) A current flowing in one direction only; -- distinguished from
alternating current. When steady and not pulsating a direct current
is often called a continuous current.
 (b) A direct induced current, or momentary current of the same
direction as the inducing current, produced by stopping or removing
the latter; also, a similar current produced by removal of a magnet.

DIRECTER
Di*rect"er, n.

Defn: One who directs; a director. Directer plane (Geom.), the plane
to which all right-lined elements in a warped surface are parallel.

DIRECTION
Di*rec"tion, n. Etym: [L. directio: cf. F. direction.]

1. The act of directing, of aiming, regulating, guiding, or ordering;
guidance; management; superintendence; administration; as, the
direction o.
I do commit his youth To your direction. Shak.
All nature is but art, unknown to thee;direction, which thou canst
not see. Pope.

2. That which is imposed by directing; a guiding or authoritative
instruction; prescription; order; command; as, he grave directions to
the servants.
The princes digged the well . . . by the direction of the law giver.
Numb. xxi. 18.

3. The name and residence of a person to whom any thing is sent,
written upon the thing sent; superscription; address; as, the
direction of a letter.

4. The line or course upon which anything is moving or aimed to move,
or in which anything is lying or pointing; aim; line or point of
tendency; direct line or course; as, the ship sailed in a
southeasterly direction.

5. The body of managers of a corporation or enterprise; board of
directors.

6. (Gun.)

Defn: The pointing of a piece with reference to an imaginary vertical
axis; -- distinguished from elevation. The direction is given when
the plane of sight passes through the object. Wilhelm.

Syn.
 -- Administration; guidance; management; superintendence; oversight;
government; order; command; guide; clew. Direction, Control, Command,
Order. These words, as here compared, have reference to the exercise
of power over the actions of others. Control is negative, denoting
power to restrain; command is positive, implying a right to enforce
obedience; directions are commands containing instructions how to
act. Order conveys more prominently the idea of authority than the
word direction. A shipmaster has the command of his vessel; he gives
orders or directions to the seamen as to the mode of sailing it; and
exercises a due control over the passengers.

DIRECTIVE
Di*rect"ive, a. Etym: [LL. directivus: cf. F. directif.]

1. Having power to direct; tending to direct, guide, or govern;
showing the way. Hooker.
The precepts directive of our practice in relation to God. Barrow.

2. Able to be directed; manageable. [Obs.]
Swords and bows Directive by the limbs. Shak.

DIRECTLY
Di*rect"ly, adv.

1. In a direct manner; in a straight line or course. "To run directly
on." Shak.
Indirectly and directly too Thou hast contrived against the very life
Of the defendant. Shak.

2. In a straightforward way; without anything intervening; not by
secondary, but by direct, means.

3. Without circumlocution or ambiguity; absolutely; in express terms.
No man hath hitherto been so impious as plainly and directly to
condemn prayer. Hooker.

4. Exactly; just.
Stand you directly in Antonius' way. Shak.

5. Straightforwardly; honestly.
I have dealt most directly in thy affair. Shak.

6. Manifestly; openly. [Obs.]
Desdemona is directly in love with him. Shak.

7. Straightway; next in order; without delay; immediately. "Will she
go now to bed' Directly.'" Shak.

8. Immediately after; as soon as.
Directly he stopped, the coffin was removed. Dickens.

Note: This use of the word is common in England, especially in
colloquial speech, but it can hardly be regarded as a well-sanctioned
or desirable use. Directly proportional (Math.), proportional in the
order of the terms; increasing or decreasing together, and with a
constant ratio; -- opposed to inversely proportional.

Syn.
 -- Immediately; forthwith; straightway; instantly; instantaneously;
soon; promptly; openly; expressly.
 -- Directly, Immediately, Instantly, Instantaneously. Directly
denotes, without any delay or diversion of attention; immediately
implies, without any interposition of other occupation; instantly
implies, without any intervention of time. Hence, "I will do it
directly," means, "I will go straightway about it." "I will do it
immediately," means, "I will do it as the very next thing." "I will
do it instantly," allows not a particle of delay. Instantaneously,
like instantly, marks an interval too small to be appreciable, but
commonly relates to physical causes; as, the powder touched by fire
instantaneously exploded.

DIRECTNESS
Di*rect"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being direct; straightness; straightforwardness;
immediateness.

DIRECT NOMINATION
Direct nomination. (Political Science)

Defn: The nomination or designation of candidates for public office
by direct popular vote rather than through the action of a convention
or body of elected nominating representatives or delegates. The term
is applied both to the nomination of candidates without any
nominating convention, and, loosely, to the nomination effected, as
in the case of candidates for president or senator of the United
States, by the election of nominating representatives pledged or
instructed to vote for certain candidates dssignated by popular vote.

DIRECTOIRE STYLE
Di`rec`toire" style. (Dressmaking)

Defn: A style of dress prevalent at the time of the French Directory,
characterized by great extravagance of design and imitating the Greek
and Roman costumes.

DIRECTOR
Di*rect"or, n. Etym: [Cf. F. directeur.]

1. One who, or that which, directs; one who regulates, guides, or
orders; a manager or superintendent.
In all affairs thou sole director. Swift.

2. One of a body of persons appointed to manage the affairs of a
company or corporation; as, the directors of a bank, insurance
company, or railroad company.
What made directors cheat in South-Sea year Pope.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: A part of a machine or instrument which directs its motion or
action.

4. (Surg.)

Defn: A slender grooved instrument upon which a knife is made to
slide when it is wished to limit the extent of motion of the latter,
or prevent its injuring the parts beneath.

DIRECTORATE
Di*rect"o*rate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. directorat.]

Defn: The office of director; also, a body of directors taken
jointly.

DIRECTORIAL
Di*rec*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. directorial.]

1. Having the quality of a director, or authoritative guide;
directive.

2. Pertaining to: director or directory; specifically, relating to
the Directory of France under the first republic. See Directory, 3.
Whoever goes to the directorial presence under this passport. Burke.

DIRECTORSHIP
Di*rect"or*ship, n.

Defn: The condition or office of a director; directorate.

DIRECTORY
Di*rect"o*ry, a. Etym: [L. directorius.]

Defn: Containing directions; enjoining; instructing; directorial.

DIRECTORY
Di*rect"o*ry, n.; pl. Directories (.

1. A collection or body of directions, rules, or ordinances; esp., a
book of directions for the conduct of worship; as, the Directory used
by the nonconformists instead of the Prayer Book.

2. A book containing the names and residences of the inhabitants of
any place, or of classes of them; an address book; as, a business
directory.

3. Etym: [Cf. F. directoire.]

Defn: A body of directors; board of management; especially, a
committee which held executive power in France under the first
republic.

4. Direction; guide. [R.] Whitlock.

DIRECT PRIMARY
Direct primary. (Political Science)

Defn: A primary by which direct nominations of candidates for office
are made.

DIRECTRESS
Di*rect"ress, n.

Defn: A woman who directs. Bp. Hurd.

DIRECTRIX
Di*rect"rix, n.; pl. E. Directrixes (, L. Directrices (.

1. A directress. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

2. (Geom.)
(a) A line along which a point in another line moves, or which in any
way governs the motion of the point and determines the position of
the curve generated by it; the line along which the generatrix moves
in generating a surface.
(b) A straight line so situated with respect to a conic section that
the distance of any point of the curve from it has a constant ratio
to the distance of the same point from the focus.

DIREFUL
Dire"ful, a. Etym: [Dire + -ful.]

Defn: Dire; dreadful; terrible; calamitous; woeful; as, a direful
fiend; a direful day.
 -- Dire"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Dire"ful*ness, n.

DIRELY
Dire"ly, adv.

Defn: In a dire manner. Drayton.

DIREMPT
Di*rempt", a. Etym: [L. diremptus, p. p. of dirimere to take apart,
separate; di- = dis- + emere to buy, orig., to take.]

Defn: Divided; separated. [Obs.] Stow.

DIREMPT
Di*rempt", v. t.

Defn: To separate by force; to tear apart. [Obs.] Holinshed.

DIREMPTION
Di*remp"tion, n. Etym: [L. diremptio.]

Defn: A tearing apart; violent separation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

DIRENESS
Dire"ness, n. Etym: [Dire- + -ness.]

Defn: Terribleness; horror; woefulness. Shak.

DIREPTION
Di*rep"tion, n. Etym: [L. direptio, fr. diripere to tear asunder,
plunder; di- = dis- + rapere to seize and carry off.]

Defn: The act of plundering, despoiling, or snatching away. [R.]
Speed.

DIREPTITIOUS
Di*rep*ti"tious, a.

Defn: Characterized by direption. [R.] Encyc. Dict.

DIREPTITIOUSLY
Di*rep*ti"tious*ly, adv.

Defn: With plundering violence; by violent injustice. [R.] Strype.

DIRGE
Dirge, n. Etym: [Contraction of Lat. dirige, direct thou (imperative
of dirigere), the first word of a funeral hymn (Lat. transl. of Psalm
v. 8) beginning, "Dirige, Domine, in conspectu tuo vitam meam." See
Direct, a., and cf. Dirige.]

Defn: A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeral
rites; a funeral hymn.
The raven croaked, and hollow shrieks of owls Sung dirges at her
funeral. Ford.

DIRGEFUL
Dirge"ful, a.

Defn: Funereal; moaning.
Soothed sadly by the dirgeful wind. Coleridge.

DIRIGE
Dir"i*ge, n. Etym: [L. See Dirge.]

Defn: A service for the dead, in the Roman Catholic Church, being the
first antiphon of Matins for the dead, of which Dirige is the first
word; a dirge.
Evensongs and placebo and dirige. Wyclif.
Resort, I pray you, unto my sepulture To sing my dirige with great
devotion. Lamentation of Mary Magdalene.

DIRIGENT
Dir"i*gent, a. Etym: [L. dirigens, p. pr. of dirigere. See Direct,
a.]

Defn: Directing. Baxter.

DIRIGENT
Dir"i*gent, n. (Geom.)

Defn: The line of motion along which a describent line or surface is
carried in the genesis of any plane or solid figure; a directrix.
Hutton.

DIRIGIBLE
Dir"i*gi*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being directed; steerable; as, a dirigible balloon.

DIRIMENT
Dir"i*ment, a. Etym: [L. dirimens, p. pr. of dirimere. See Dirempt.]
(Law)

Defn: Absolute. Diriment impediment (R. C. Ch.), an impediment that
nullifies marriage.

DIRK
Dirk, n. Etym: [Ir. duirc.]

Defn: A kind of dagger or poniard; -- formerly much used by the
Scottish Highlander. Dirk knife, a clasp knife having a large,
dirklike blade.

DIRK
Dirk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dirked; p. pr. & vb. n. Dirking.]

Defn: To stab with a dirk. Sir W. Scott.

DIRK
Dirk, a. Etym: [See Dark, a.]

Defn: Dark. [Obs.] Chaucer.

DIRK
Dirk, v. t.

Defn: To darken. [Obs.] Spenser.

DIRKNESS
Dirk"ness, n.

Defn: Darkness. [Obs.] Chaucer.

DIRL
Dirl, v. i. & t. Etym: [Cf. Drill, Thrill.]

Defn: To thrill; to vibrate; to penetrate. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

DIRT
Dirt, n. Etym: [OE. drit; kin to Icel. drit excrement, drita to dung,
OD. drijten to dung, AS. gedritan.]

1. Any foul of filthy substance, as excrement, mud, dust, etc.;
whatever, adhering to anything, renders it foul or unclean; earth;
as, a wagonload of dirt.
Whose waters cast up mire and dirt. Is. lvii. 20.

2. Meanness; sordidness.
Honors . . . thrown away upon dirt and infamy. Melmoth.

3. In placer mining, earth, gravel, etc., before washing. Dirt bed
(Geom.), a layer of clayey earth forming a stratum in a geological
formation. Dirt beds are common among the coal measures.
 -- Dirt eating. (a) The use of certain kinds of clay for food,
existing among some tribes of Indians; geophagism. Humboldt. (b)
(Med.) Same as Chthonophagia.
 -- Dirt pie, clay or mud molded by children in imitation of pastry.
Otway (1684).
 -- To eat dirt, to submit in a meanly humble manner to insults; to
eat humble pie.

DIRT
Dirt, v. t.

Defn: To make foul of filthy; to dirty. Swift.

DIRTILY
Dirt"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a dirty manner; foully; nastily; filthily; meanly; sordidly.

DIRTINESS
Dirt"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being dirty; filthiness; foulness; nastiness;
baseness; sordidness.

DIRTY
Dirt"y, a. [Compar. Dirtier; superl. Dirtiest.]

1. Defiled with dirt; foul; nasty; filthy; not clean or pure; serving
to defile; as, dirty hands; dirty water; a dirty white. Spenser.

2. Sullied; clouded; -- applied to color. Locke.

3. Sordid; base; groveling; as, a dirty fellow.
The creature's at his dirty work again. Pope.

4. Sleety; gusty; stormy; as, dirty weather.
Storms of wind, clouds of dust, an angry, dirty sea. M. Arnold.

Syn.
 -- Nasty; filthy; foul. See Nasty.

DIRTY
Dirt"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dirtied; p. pr. & vb. n. Dirtying.]

1. To foul; to make filthy; to soil; as, to dirty the clothes or
hands.

2. To tarnish; to sully; to scandalize; -- said of reputation,
character, etc.

DIRUPTION
Di*rup"tion, n. Etym: [L. diruptio, fr. dirumpere. See Disrupt, a.]

Defn: Disruption.

DIS-
Dis- (; 258)

Defn: .

1. A prefix from the Latin, whence F. dés, or sometimes dé-, dis-.
The Latin dis- appears as di- before b, d, g, l, m, n, r, v, becomes
dif- before f, and either dis- or di- before j. It is from the same
root as bis twice, and duo, E. two. See Two, and cf. Bi-, Di-, Dia-.
Dis- denotes separation, a parting from, as in distribute,
disconnect; hence it often has the force of a privative and negative,
as in disarm, disoblige, disagree. Also intensive, as in dissever.

Note: Walker's rule of pronouncing this prefix is, that the s ought
always to be pronounced like z, when the next syllable is accented
and begins with "a flat mute [b, d, v, g, z], a liquid [l, m, n, r],
or a vowel; as, disable, disease, disorder, disuse, disband, disdain,
disgrace, disvalue, disjoin, dislike, dislodge, dismay, dismember,
dismiss, dismount, disnatured, disrank, disrelish, disrobe." Dr.
Webster's example in disapproving of Walker's rule and pronouncing
dis- as diz in only one (disease) of the above words, is followed by
recent orthoëpists. See Disable, Disgrace, and the other words,
beginning with dis-, in this Dictionary.

2. A prefix from Gr. Di-.

DIS
Dis, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The god Pluto. Shak.

DISABILITY
Dis`a*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Disabilities (.

1. State of being disabled; deprivation or want of ability; absence
of competent physical, intellectual, or moral power, means, fitness,
and the like.
Grossest faults, or disabilities to perform what was covenanted.
Milton.
Chatham refused to see him, pleading his disability. Bancroft.

2. Want of legal qualification to do a thing; legal incapacity or
incompetency.
The disabilities of idiocy, infancy, and coverture. Abbott.

Syn.
 -- Weakness; inability; incompetence; impotence; incapacity;
incompetency; disqualification.
 -- Disability, Inability. Inability is an inherent want of power to
perform the thing in question; disability arises from some
deprivation or loss of the needed competency. One who becomes
deranged is under a disability of holding his estate; and one who is
made a judge, of deciding in his own case. A man may decline an
office on account of his inability to discharge its duties; he may
refuse to accept a trust or employment on account of some disability
prevents him from entering into such engagements.

DISABLE
Dis*a"ble, a.

Defn: Lacking ability; unable. [Obs.] "Our disable and unactive
force." Daniel.

DISABLE
Dis*a"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disabled; p. pr. & vb. n. Disabling.]

1. To render unable or incapable; to destroy the force, vigor, or
power of action of; to deprive of competent physical or intellectual
power; to incapacitate; to disqualify; to make incompetent or unfit
for service; to impair.
A Christian's life is a perpetual exercise, a wrestling and warfare,
for which sensual pleasure disables him. Jer. Taylor.
And had performed it, if my known offense Had not disabled me.
Milton.
I have disabled mine estate. Shak.

2. (Law)

Defn: To deprive of legal right or qualification; to render legally
incapable.
An attainder of the ancestor corrupts the blood, and disables his
children to inherit. Blackstone.

3. To deprive of that which gives value or estimation; to declare
lacking in competency; to disparage; to undervalue. [Obs.] "He
disabled my judgment." Shak.

Syn.
 -- To weaken; unfit; disqualify; incapacitate.

DISABLEMENT
Dis*a"ble*ment, n.

Defn: Deprivation of ability; incapacity. Bacon.

DISABUSE
Dis`a*buse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disabused; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disabusing.] Etym: [Pref. dis- + abuse; cf. F. désabuser.]

Defn: To set free from mistakes; to undeceive; to disengage from
fallacy or deception; to set right.
To undeceive and disabuse the people. South.
If men are now sufficiently enlightened to disabuse themselves or
artifice, hypocrisy, and superstition, they will consider this event
as an era in their history. J. Adams.

DISACCOMMODATE
Dis`ac*com"mo*date, v. t. Etym: [Pref. dis- + accommodate.]

Defn: To put to inconvenience; to incommode. [R.] Bp. Warburton.

DISACCOMMODATION
Dis`ac*com`mo*da"tion, n.

Defn: A state of being unaccommodated or unsuited. [R.] Sir M. Hale.

DISACCORD
Dis`ac*cord", v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. désaccorder to cause discord.]

Defn: To refuse to assent. [Obs.] Spenser.

DISACCORD
Dis`ac*cord", n.

Defn: Disagreement. Pop. Sci. Monthly.

DISACCORDANT
Dis`ac*cord"ant, a.

Defn: Not accordant. Fabyan.

DISACCUSTOM
Dis`ac*cus"tom, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. désaccoutumer.]

Defn: To destroy the force of habit in; to wean from a custom.
Johnson.

DISACIDIFY
Dis`a*cid"i*fy, v. t.

Defn: To free from acid.

DISACKNOWLEDGE
Dis`ac*knowl"edge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disacknowledged; p. pr. & vb.
n. Disacknowledging.]

Defn: To refuse to acknowledge; to deny; to disown. [Obs.] South.

DISACQUAINT
Dis`ac*quaint", v. t. Etym: [Pref. dis- + acquaint: cf. OF.
desacointier.]

Defn: To render unacquainted; to make unfamiliar. [Obs.]
While my sick heart With dismal smart Is disacquainted never.
Herrick.

DISACQUAINTANCE
Dis`ac*quaint"ance, n.

Defn: Neglect of disuse of familiarity, or familiar acquaintance.
[Obs.] South.

DISACRYL
Dis*ac"ryl, n. Etym: [Pref. dis- (Gr. acrolein + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white amorphous substance obtained as a polymeric
modification of acrolein.

DISADORN
Dis`a*dorn", v. t.

Defn: To deprive of ornaments. Congreve.

DISADVANCE
Dis`ad*vance" (; 61), v. t. & i. Etym: [Pref. dis- + advance: cf. OF.
desavancier.]

Defn: To draw back, or cause to draw back. [Obs.] Spenser.

DISADVANTAGE
Dis`ad*van"tage (; 48, 61), n. Etym: [Cf. F. désavantage.]

1. Deprivation of advantage; unfavorable or prejudicial quality,
condition, circumstance, or the like; that which hinders success, or
causes loss or injury.
I was brought here under the disadvantage of being unknown by sight
to any of you. Burke.
Abandoned by their great patron, the faction henceforward acted at
disadvantage. Palfrey.

2. Loss; detriment; hindrance; prejudice to interest, fame, credit,
profit, or other good.
They would throw a construction on his conduct, to his disadvantage
before the public. Bancroft.

Syn.
 -- Detriment; injury; hurt; loss; damage.

DISADVANTAGE
Dis`ad*van"tage, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. désavantager.]

Defn: To injure the interest of; to be detrimental to.

DISADVANTAGEABLE
Dis`ad*van"tage*a*ble, a.

Defn: Injurious; disadvantageous. [Obs.] Bacon.

DISADVANTAGEOUS
Dis*ad`van*ta"geous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. désavantageux.]

Defn: Attended with disadvantage; unfavorable to success or
prosperity; inconvenient; prejudicial; -- opposed to advantageous;
as, the situation of an army is disadvantageous for attack or
defense.
Even in the disadvantageous position in which he had been placed, he
gave clear indications of future excellence. Prescott.
-- Dis*ad`van*ta"geous*ly, adv.
 -- Dis*ad`van*ta"geous*ness, n.

DISADVENTURE
Dis`ad*ven"ture, n. Etym: [Pref. dis- + adventure: cf. OF.
desaventure.]

Defn: Misfortune; mishap. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

DISADVENTUROUS
Dis`ad*ven"tur*ous, a.

Defn: Unprosperous; unfortunate. [Obs.] Spenser.

DISADVISE
Dis`ad*vise", v. t.

Defn: To advise against; to dissuade from. [R.] Boyle.

DISAFFECT
Dis`af*fect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disaffected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disaffecting.]

1. To alienate or diminish the affection of; to make unfriendly or
less friendly; to fill with discontent and unfriendliness.
They had attempted to disaffect and discontent his majesty's late
army. Clarendon.

2. To disturb the functions of; to disorder.
It disaffects the bowels. Hammond.

3. To lack affection for; to be alienated from, or indisposed toward;
to dislike. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

DISAFFECTED
Dis`af*fect"ed, a.

Defn: Alienated in feeling; not wholly loyal. J. H. Newman.
 -- Dis`af*fect"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Dis`af*fect"ed*ness, n.

DISAFFECTION
Dis`af*fec"tion, n.

1. State of being disaffected; alienation or want of affection or
good will, esp. toward those in authority; unfriendliness; dislike.
In the making laws, princes must have regard to . . . the affections
and disaffections of the people. Jer. Taylor.

2. Disorder; bad constitution. [R.] Wiseman.

Syn.
 -- Dislike; disgust; discontent; unfriendliness; alienation;
disloyalty; hostility.

DISAFFECTIONATE
Dis`af*fec"tion*ate, a.

Defn: Not disposed to affection; unfriendly; disaffected. [R.]
Blount.

DISAFFIRM
Dis`af*firm", v. t.

1. To assert the contrary of; to contradict; to deny; -- said of that
which has been asserted.

2. (Law)

Defn: To refuse to confirm; to annul, as a judicial decision, by a
contrary judgment of a superior tribunal.

DISAFFIRMANCE
Dis`af*firm"ance, n.

1. The act of disaffirming; denial; negation.

2. (Law)

Defn: Overthrow or annulment by the decision of a superior tribunal;
as, disaffirmance of judgment.

DISAFFIRMATION
Dis*af`fir*ma"tion, n.

Defn: The act of disaffirming; negation; refutation.

DISAFFOREST
Dis`af*for"est, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disafforested; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disafforesting.] Etym: [Pref. dis- + afforest: cf. OF. desaforester.]
(Eng. Law)

Defn: To reduce from the privileges of a forest to the state of
common ground; to exempt from forest laws.
By charter 9 Henry III. many forests were disafforested. Blackstone.

DISAGGREGATE
Dis*ag"gre*gate, v. t.

Defn: To destroy the aggregation of; to separate into component
parts, as an aggregate mass.

DISAGGREGATION
Dis*ag`gre*ga"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. désagrégation.]

Defn: The separation of an aggregate body into its component parts.

DISAGREE
Dis`a*gree", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Disagreed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disageeing.] Etym: [Pref. dis- + agree: cf. F. désagréer to
displease.]

1. To fail to accord; not to agree; to lack harmony; to differ; to be
unlike; to be at variance.
They reject the plainest sense of Scripture, because it seems
disagree with what they call reason. Atterbury.

2. To differ in opinion; to hold discordant views; to be at
controversy; to quarrel.
Who shall decide, when doctors disagree Pope.

3. To be unsuited; to have unfitness; as, medicine sometimes
disagrees with the patient; food often disagrees with the stomach or
the taste.

Note: Usually followed by with, sometimes by to, rarely by from; as,
I disagree to your proposal.

Syn.
 -- To differ; vary; dissent.

DISAGREEABLE
Dis`a*gree"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. désagréable.]

1. Not agreeable, conformable, or congruous;
Preach you truly the doctrine which you have received, and each
nothing that is disagreeable thereunto. Udall.

2. Exciting repugnance; offensive to the feelings or
That which is disagreeable to one is many times agreeable to another,
or disagreeable in a less degree. Wollaston.

DISAGREEABLENESS
Dis`a*gree"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being; disagreeable; unpleasantness.

DISAGREEABLY
Dis`a*gree"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In a disagreeable manner; unsuitably; offensively.

DISAGREEANCE
Dis`a*gree"ance, n.

Defn: Disagreement. [Obs.]

DISAGREEMENT
Dis`a*gree"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. désagrément disagreeable
circumstance, disagreeableness.]

1. The state of disagreeing; a being at variance; dissimilitude;
diversity.

2. Unsuitableness; unadaptedness. [R.]

3. Difference of opinion or sentiment.

4. A falling out, or controversy; difference.

Syn.
 -- Difference; diversity; dissimilitude; unlikeness; discrepancy;
variance; dissent; misunderstanding; dissension; division; dispute;
jar; wrangle; discord.

DISAGREER
Dis`a*gre"er, n.

Defn: One who disagrees. Hammond.

DISALLIEGE
Dis`al*liege", v. t.

Defn: To alienate from allegiance. [Obs. & R.] Milton.

DISALLOW
Dis`al*low", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disallowed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disallowing.] Etym: [Pref. dis- + allow: cf. OF. desalouer, desloer,
to blame, dissuade.]

Defn: To refuse to allow; to deny the force or validity of; to disown
and reject; as, the judge disallowed the executor's charge.
To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but
chosen of God. 1 Pet. ii. 4.
That the edicts of Cæsar we may at all times disallow, but the
statutes of God for no reason we may reject. Milton.

Note: This verb was sometimes followed by of; as, "What follows, if
we disallow of this" Shak. See Allow.

Syn.
 -- To disapprove; prohibit; censure; reject.

DISALLOWABLE
Dis`al*low"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not allowable; not to be suffered. Raleigh.
 -- Dis`al*low"a*ble*ness, n.

DISALLOWANCE
Dis`al*low"ance, n.

Defn: The act of disallowing; refusal to admit or permit; rejection.

Syn.
 -- Disapprobation; prohibition; condemnation; censure; rejection.

DISALLY
Dis`al*ly", v. t. Etym: [Pref. dis- + ally: cf. F. désaltier.]

Defn: To part, as an alliance; to sunder. [R.] "Disallied their
nuptials." Milton.

DISANCHOR
Dis*an"chor, v. t. & i. Etym: [Pref. dis- + anchor: cf. F.
désancrer.]

Defn: To raise the anchor of, as a ship; to weigh anchor. [Obs.]
Heywood.

DISANGELICAL
Dis`an*gel"ic*al, a.

Defn: Not angelical. [R.] "Disangelical nature." Coventry.

DISANIMATE
Dis*an"i*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disanimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disanimating.]

1. To deprive of life. [R.] Cudworth.

2. To deprive of spirit; to dishearten. Shak.

DISANIMATION
Dis*an`i*ma"tion, n.

1. Privation of life. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

2. The state of being disanimated or discouraged; depression of
spirits.

DISANNEX
Dis`an*nex", v. t.

Defn: To disunite; to undo or repeal the annexation of. State Trials
(1608).

DISANNUL
Dis`an*nul", v. t.

Defn: To annul completely; to render void or of no effect.
For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul Isaiah
xiv. 27.

Note: The prefix in this word an its derivatives is intensive, and
not negative.

DISANNULLER
Dis`an*nul"ler, n.

Defn: One who disannuls.

DISANNULMENT
Dis`an*nul"ment, n.

Defn: Complete annulment.

DISANOINT
Dis`a*noint", v. t.

Defn: To invalidate the consecration of; as, to disanoint a king.
[Obs.] Milton.

DISAPPAREL
Dis`ap*par"el, v. t. Etym: [See Apparel, v. t.] Etym: [Pref. dis- +
apparel: cf. OF. desapareiller.]

Defn: To disrobe; to strip of apparel; to make naked.
Drink disapparels the soul. Junius (1635).

DISAPPEAR
Dis`ap*pear", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Disappeared; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disappearing.]

1. To cease to appear or to be perceived; to pass from view,
gradually or suddenly; to vanish; to be no longer seen; as, darkness
disappears at the approach of light; a ship disappears as she sails
from port.

2. To cease to be or exist; as, the epidemic has disappeared.

DISAPPEARANCE
Dis`ap*pear"ance, n.

Defn: The act of disappearing; cessation of appearance; removal from
sight; vanishing. Addison.

DISAPPEARING
Dis`ap*pear"ing,

Defn: p. pr. & vb. n. of Disappear.

Disappearing carriage (Ordnance), a carriage for heavy coast guns on
which the gun is raised above the parapet for firing and upon
discharge is lowered behind the parapet for protection. The standard
type of disappearing carriage in the coast artillery of the United
States army is the Buffington-Crozier carriage, in which the gun
trunnions are secured at the upper and after ends of a pair of heavy
levers, at the lower ends of which is attached a counterweight of
lead. The levers are pivoted at their middle points, which are, with
the top carriage, permitted restrained motion along the slightly
inclined chassis rails. The counterweight is held in place by a pawl
and ratchet. When the gun is loaded the pawl is released and the
counterweight sinks, raising the gun to the firing position above the
parapet. The recoil following the discharge returns the gun to the
loading position, the counterweight rising until the pawl engages the
ratchet.

DISAPPENDENCY
Dis`ap*pend"en*cy, n.

Defn: A detachment or separation from a former connection. [R.]

DISAPPENDENT
Dis`ap*pend"ent, a.

Defn: Freed from a former connection or dependence; disconnected.
[R.]

DISAPPOINT
Dis`ap*point", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disapointed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disappointing.] Etym: [OF. desapointier, F. désappointer; pref. des-
(L. dis-) + apointier, F. appointier, to appoint. See Appoint.]

1. To defeat of expectation or hope; to hinder from the attainment of
that which was excepted, hoped, or desired; to balk; as, a man is
disappointed of his hopes or expectations, or his hopes, desires,
intentions, expectations, or plans are disappointed; a bad season
disappoints the farmer of his crops; a defeat disappoints an enemy of
his spoil.
I was disappointed, but very agreeably. Macaulay.

Note: Disappointed of a thing not obtained; disappointed in a thing
obtained.

2. To frustrate; to fail; to hinder of result.
His retiring foe Shrinks from the wound, and disappoints the blow.
Addison.

Syn.
 -- To tantalize; fail; frustrate; balk; baffle; delude; foil;
defeat. See Tantalize.

DISAPPOINTED
Dis`ap*point"ed, a.

1. Defeated of expectation or hope; balked; as, a disappointed person
or hope.

2. Unprepared; unequipped. [Obs.]
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin, Unhouseled, disappointed,
unaneled. Shak.

DISAPPOINTMENT
Dis`ap*point"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. désappointement.]

1. The act of disappointing, or the state of being disappointed;
defeat or failure of expectation or hope; miscarriage of design or
plan; frustration.
If we hope for things of which we have not thoroughly considered the
value, our disappointment will be greater our pleasure in the
fruition of them. Addison.
In disappointment thou canst bless. Keble.

2. That which disappoints.

Syn.
 -- Miscarriage; frustration; balk.

DISAPPRECIATE
Dis`ap*pre"ci*ate, v. t. Etym: [See Appreciate.]

Defn: To undervalue; not to esteem.
 -- Dis`ap*pre`ci*a"tion, n.

DISAPPROBATION
Dis*ap`pro*ba"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. dis- + approbation: cf. F.
désapprobation. Cf. Disapprove.]

Defn: The act of disapproving; mental condemnation of what is judged
wrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; feeling of censure.
We have ever expressed the most unqualified disapprobation of all the
steps. Burke.

DISAPPROBATORY
Dis*ap"pro*ba`to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing disapprobation; serving to disapprove.

DISAPPROPRIATE
Dis`ap*pro"pri*ate, a. (Law)

Defn: Severed from the appropriation or possession of a spiritual
corporation.
The appropriation may be severed, and the church become
disappropriate, two ways. Blackstone.

DISAPPROPRIATE
Dis`ap*pro"pri*ate, v. t.

1. To release from individual ownership or possession. Milton.

2. (Law)

Defn: To sever from appropriation or possession a spiritual
corporation.
Appropriations of the several parsonages . . . would heave been, by
the rules of the common law, disappropriated. Blackstone.

DISAPPROPRIATION
Dis`ap*pro`pri*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of disappropriating.

DISAPPROVAL
Dis`ap*prov"al, n.

Defn: Disapprobation; dislike; censure; adverse judgment.

DISAPPROVE
Dis`ap*prove, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disapproved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disapproving.] Etym: [Pref. dis- + approve: cf. F. déapprouver. Cf.
Disapprobation.]

1. To pass unfavorable judgment upon; to condemn by an act of the
judgment; to regard as wrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; to censure;
as, to disapprove the conduct of others.

2. To refuse official approbation to; to disallow; to decline to
sanction; as, the sentence of the court-martial was disapproved by
the commander in chief.

Note: This verb is often followed by of; as, to disapprove of an
opinion, of such conduct. See Approve.

DISAPPROVER
Dis`ap*prov"er, n.

Defn: One who disapproves.

DISAPPROVINGLY
Dis`ap*prov"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a disapproving manner.

DISARD
Dis"ard, n.

Defn: See Dizzard. [Obs.] Burton.

DISARM
Dis*arm", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disarming; p. pr. & vb. n. Disarming.]
Etym: [OE. desarmen, F. désarmer; pref. dés- (L. dis-) + armer to
arm. See Arm.]

1. To deprive of arms; to take away the weapons of; to deprive of the
means of attack or defense; to render defenseless.
Security disarms the best-appointed army. Fuller.
The proud was half disarmed of pride. Tennyson.

2. To deprive of the means or the disposition to harm; to render
harmless or innocuous; as, to disarm a man's wrath.

DISARMAMENT
Dis*arm"a*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. désarmement.]

Defn: The act of disarming.

DISARMATURE
Dis*ar"ma*ture, n. Etym: [Pref. dis- + armature.]

Defn: The act of divesting of armature. [R.]

DISARMED
Dis*armed", a.

1. Deprived of arms.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Deprived of claws, and teeth or beaks. Cussans.

DISARMER
Dis*arm"er, n.

Defn: One who disarms.

DISARRANGE
Dis`ar*range", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disarranged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disarranging.] Etym: [Pref. dis- + arrange: cf. F. désarranger.]

Defn: To unsettle or disturb the order or due arrangement of; to
throw out of order.

DISARRANGEMENT
Dis`ar*range"ment, n.

Defn: The act of disarranging, or the state of being disarranged;
confusion; disorder. Cowper.

DISARRAY
Dis`ar*ray", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disarrayed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disarraying.] Etym: [Pref. dis- + array, v.: cf. OF. desarroyer,
desarreier.]

1. To throw into disorder; to break the array of.
Who with fiery steeds Oft disarrayed the foes in battle ranged.
Fenton.

2. To take off the dress of; to unrobe.
So, as she bade, the witch they disarrayed. Spenser.

DISARRAY
Dis`ar*ray", n. Etym: [Cf. F. désarroi.]

1. Want of array or regular order; disorder; confusion.
Disrank the troops, set all in disarray. Daniel.

2. Confused attire; undress. Spenser.

DISARRAYMENT
Dis`ar*ray"ment, n.

Defn: Disorder. [R.] Feltham.

DISARTICULATE
Dis`ar*tic"u*late, v. t.

Defn: To sunder; to separate, as joints.
 -- Dis`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n.

DISARTICULATOR
Dis`ar*tic"u*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who disarticulates and prepares skeletons.

DISASSENT
Dis`as*sent", v. i.

Defn: To dissent. [Obs.]

DISASSENT
Dis`as*sent", n.

Defn: Dissent. [Obs.] E. Hall.

DISASSENTER
Dis`as*sent"er, n.

Defn: One who disassents; a dissenter. [Obs.] State Trials (1634).

DISASSIDUITY
Dis*as`si*du"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of as siduity or care. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.

DISASSIMILATE
Dis`as*sim"i*late, v. t. (Physiol.)

Defn: To subject to disassimilation.

DISASSIMILATION
Dis`as*sim`i*la"tion, n. (Physics)

Defn: The decomposition of complex substances, within the organism,
into simpler ones suitable only for excretion, with evolution of
energy, -- a normal nutritional process the reverse of assimilation;
downward metabolism.
The breaking down of already existing chemical compounds into simpler
ones, sometimes called disassimilation. Martin.

DISASSIMILATIVE
Dis`as*sim"i*la*tive, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Having power to disassimilate; of the nature of
disassimilation.
Disassimilative processes constitute a marked feature in the life of
animal cells. McKendrick.

DISASSOCIATE
Dis`as*so"ci*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disassociated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disassociating.]

Defn: To disconnect from things associated; to disunite; to
dissociate. Florio.

DISASTER
Dis*as"ter, n. Etym: [F. désastre; pref. dés- (L. dis-) + astre star,
fr. L. astrum; a word of astrological origin. See Aster, Astral,
Star.]

1. An unpropitious or baleful aspect of a planet or star; malevolent
influence of a heavenly body; hence, an ill portent. [Obs.]
Disasters in the sun. Shak.

2. An adverse or unfortunate event, esp. a sudden and extraordinary
misfortune; a calamity; a serious mishap.
But noble souls, through dust and heat, Rise from disaster and defeat
The stronger. Longfellow.

Syn.
 -- Calamity; misfortune; mishap; mischance; visitation;
misadventure; ill luck. See Calamity.

DISASTER
Dis*as"ter, v. t.

1. To blast by the influence of a baleful star. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

2. To bring harm upon; to injure. [R.] Thomson.

DISASTERLY
Dis*as"ter*ly, adv.

Defn: Disastrously. [Obs.] Drayton.

DISASTROUS
Dis*as"trous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. désastreux. See Disaster.]

1. Full of unpropitious stellar influences; unpropitious; ill-boding.
[Obs.]
The moon In dim eclipse, disastrous twilight sheds. Milton.

2. Attended with suffering or disaster; very unfortunate; calamitous;
ill-fated; as, a disastrous day; a disastrous termination of an
undertaking.
Wherein I spake of most disastrous chances. Shak.
-- Dis*as"trous*ly, adv.
 -- Dis*as"trous*ness, n.

DISATTIRE
Dis`at*tire", v. t. Etym: [Pref. dis- + attire: cf. OF. desatirier.]

Defn: To unrobe; to undress. Spenser.

DISAUGMENT
Dis`aug*ment", v. t.

Defn: To diminish. [R.]

DISAUTHORIZE
Dis*au"thor*ize, v. t.

Defn: To deprive of credit or authority; to discredit. [R.] W.
Wotton.

DISAVAUNCE
Dis`a*vaunce", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Disadvance.]

Defn: To retard; to repel; to do damage to. [Obs.] Chaucer.

DISAVENTURE
Dis`a*ven"ture, n. Etym: [See Disadventure, Adventure.]

Defn: Misfortune. [Obs.] Spenser.

DISAVENTUROUS
Dis`a*ven"tur*ous, a.

Defn: Misadventurous; unfortunate. [Obs.] Spenser.

DISAVOUCH
Dis`a*vouch", v. t. Etym: [Pref. dis- + avouch. Cf. Disavow.]

Defn: To disavow. [R.] Daniel.

DISAVOW
Dis`a*vow", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disavowed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disavowing.] Etym: [F. désavouer; pref. dés- (L. dis-) + avouer to
avow. See Avow, and cf. Disavouch.]

1. To refuse strongly and solemnly to own or acknowledge; to deny
responsibility for, approbation of, an the like; to disclaim; to
disown; as, he was charged with embezzlement, but he disavows the
crime.
A solemn promise made and disavowed. Dryden.

2. To deny; to show the contrary of; to disprove.
Yet can they never Toss into air the freedom of my birth, Or disavow
my blood Plantagenet's. Ford.

DISAVOWAL
Dis`a*vow"al, n.

Defn: The act of disavowing, disclaiming, or disowning; rejection and
denial.
An earnest disavowal of fear often proceeds from fear. Richardson.

DISAVOWANCE
Dis`a*vow"ance, n.

Defn: Disavowal. [Obs.] South.

DISAVOWER
Dis`a*vow"er, n.

Defn: One who disavows.

DISAVOWMENT
Dis`a*vow"ment, n.

Defn: Disavowal. [R.] Wotton.

DISBAND
Dis*band" (; see Dis-), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disbanded; p. pr. & vb.
n. Disbanding.] Etym: [Pref. dis- + band: cf. OF. desbander, F.
débander, to unbind, unbend. See Band, and cf. Disbend, Disbind.]

1. To loose the bands of; to set free; to disunite; to scatter; to
disperse; to break up the organization of; especially, to dismiss
from military service; as, to disband an army.
They disbanded themselves and returned, every man to his own
dwelling. Knolles.

2. To divorce. [Obs.]
And therefore . . . she ought to be disbanded. Milton.

DISBAND
Dis*band", v. i.

Defn: To become separated, broken up, dissolved, or scattered;
especially, to quit military service by breaking up organization.

When both rocks and all things shall disband. Herbert.
Human society would in a short space disband. Tillotson.

DISBANDMENT
Dis*band"ment, n.

Defn: The act of disbanding.

DISBAR
Dis*bar", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disbarred; p. pr. & vb. n. Disbarring.]
(Law)

Defn: To expel from the bar, or the legal profession; to deprive (an
attorney, barrister, or counselor) of his status and privileges as
such. Abbott.

DISBARK
Dis*bark", v. t. Etym: [Pref. dis- + bark a small ship: cf. OF.
desbarquer, F. débarquer. Cf. Debark, Disembark.]

Defn: To disembark. Pope.

DISBARK
Dis*bark", v. t. Etym: [Pref. dis- + bark rind.]

Defn: To strip of bark; to bark. [R.] Boyle.

DISBARMENT
Dis*bar"ment, n.

Defn: Act of disbarring.

DISBASE
Dis*base", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Debase.]

Defn: To debase or degrade. [Obs.]
Nor you nor your house were so much as spoken of before I disbased
myself. B. Jonson.

DISBECOME
Dis`be*come", v. t.

Defn: To misbecome. [Obs.] Massinger.

DISBELIEF
Dis*be*lief", n.

Defn: The act of disbelieving;; a state of the mind in which one is
fully persuaded that an opinion, assertion, or doctrine is not true;
refusal of assent, credit, or credence; denial of belief.
Our belief or disbelief of a thing does not alter the nature of the
thing. Tillotson.
No sadder proof can be given by a man of his own littleness that
disbelief in great men. Carlyle.

Syn.
 -- Distrust; unbelief; incredulity; doubt; skepticism.
 -- Disbelief, Unbelief. Unbelief is a mere failure to admit;
disbelief is a positive rejection. One may be an unbeliever in
Christianity from ignorance or want of inquiry; a unbeliever has the
proofs before him, and incurs the guilt of setting them aside.
Unbelief is usually open to conviction; disbelief is already
convinced as to the falsity of that which it rejects. Men often tell
a story in such a manner that we regard everything they say with
unbelief. Familiarity with the worst parts of human nature often
leads us into a disbelief in many good qualities which really exist
among men.

DISBELIEVE
Dis`be*lieve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disbelieved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disbelieving.]

Defn: Not to believe; to refuse belief or credence to; to hold not to
be true or actual.
Assertions for which there is abundant positive evidence are often
disbelieved, on account of what is called their improbability or
impossibility. J. S. Mill.

DISBELIEVER
Dis`be*liev"er, n.

Defn: One who disbelieves, or refuses belief; an unbeliever.
Specifically, one who does not believe the Christian religion. I.
Watts.

DISBENCH
Dis*bench", v. t.

1. To drive from a bench or seat. [R.] Shak.

2. (Eng. Law)

Defn: To deprive (a bencher) of his privileges. Mozley & W.

DISBEND
Dis*bend, v. t.

Defn: To unbend. [Obs.] Stirling.

DISBIND
Dis*bind", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Disband.]

Defn: To unbind; to loosen. [Obs.] Mede.

DISBLAME
Dis*blame", v. t. Etym: [OE. desblamen, OF. desblasmer; pref. des-
(L. dis-) + blasmer, F. blâmer, to blame.]

Defn: To clear from blame. [Obs.] Chaucer.

DISBODIED
Dis*bod"ied, a.

Defn: Disembodied. [R.]

DISBOSCATION
Dis`bos*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. dis- + F. bosquet grove.]

Defn: Converting forest land into cleared or arable land; removal of
a forest. Sir W. Scott.

DISBOWEL
Dis*bow"el, v. t. Etym: [See Bowel, v. t.]

Defn: To disembowel. [R.] Spenser.

DISBRANCH
Dis*branch", v. t. Etym: [See Branch, v.]

Defn: To divest of a branch or branches; to tear off. Shak.

DISBUD
Dis*bud", v. t. Etym: [See Bud, v.] (Hort.)

Defn: To deprive of buds or shoots, as for training, or economizing
the vital strength of a tree.

DISBURDEN
Dis*bur"den, v. t. Etym: [See Burden, v. t.] Etym: [Cf. Disburthen.]

Defn: To rid of a burden; to free from a load borne or from something
oppressive; to unload; to disencumber; to relieve.
He did it to disburden a conscience. Feltham.
My mediations . . . will, I hope, be more calm, being thus
disburdened. Hammond.

Syn.
 -- To unload; unburden; discharge; free.

DISBURDEN
Dis*bur"den, v. i.

Defn: To relieve one's self of a burden; to ease the mind. Milton.

DISBURGEON
Dis*bur"geon, v. t.

Defn: To strip of burgeons or buds; to disbud. [R.] Holland.

DISBURSE
Dis*burse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disbursed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disbursing.] Etym: [OF. desbourser, F. débourser; pref. des- (L. dis-
) + bourse purse. See Burse, and cf. Dispurse.]

Defn: To pay out; to expend; -- usually from a public fund or
treasury.
The duty of collecting and disbursing his revenues. Macaulay.
Disbursing officer, an officer in any department of the public
service who is charged with the duty of paying out public money.

DISBURSEMENT
Dis*burse"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. déboursement.]

1. The act of disbursing or paying out.
The disbursement of the public moneys. U. S. Statutes.

2. That which is disbursed or paid out; as, the annual disbursements
exceed the income.

DISBURSER
Dis*burs"er, n.

Defn: One who disburses money.

DISBURTHEN
Dis*bur"then, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disburthened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disburthening.] Etym: [Cf. Disburden.]

Defn: To disburden; to relieve of a load. [Archaic]

DISC
Disc, n. Etym: [See Disk, Dish.]

Defn: A flat round plate; (Biol.)

Defn: a circular structure either in plants or animals; as, a blood
disc, a germinal disc, etc. Same as Disk.

DISCAGE
Dis*cage", v. t.

Defn: To uncage. [R.] Tennyson.

DISCAL
Disc"al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a disk; as, discal cells.

DISCALCEATE
Dis*cal"ce*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. discalceatus unshod; dis- + calceus
shoe.]

Defn: To pull off shoes or sandals from. [Obs.] Cockeram.

DISCALCEATED
Dis*cal"ce*at`ed, a.

Defn: Deprived off shoes or sandals; unshod; discalced.

DISCALCEATION
Dis*cal`ce*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of pulling off the shoes or sandals. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

DISCALCED
Dis*calced", a.

Defn: Unshod; barefooted; -- in distinction from calced. "The
foundation of houses of discalced friars." Cardinal Manning's St.
Teresa.

DISCAMP
Dis*camp", v. t. Etym: [See Decamp.]

Defn: To drive from a camp. [Obs.] Holland.

DISCANDY
Dis*can"dy, v. i.

Defn: To melt; to dissolve; to thaw. [Obs.]

DISCANT
Dis"cant, n.

Defn: See Descant, n.

DISCAPACITATE
Dis*ca*pac"i*tate, v. t.

Defn: To deprive of capacity; to incapacitate. [R.]

DISCARD
Dis*card", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Discarded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Discarding.]

1. (Card Playing)

Defn: To throw out of one's hand, as superfluous cards; to lay aside
(a card or cards).

2. To cast off as useless or as no longer of service; to dismiss from
employment, confidence, or favor; to discharge; to turn away.
They blame the favorites, and think it nothing extraordinary that the
queen should . . . resolve to discard them. Swift.

3. To put or thrust away; to reject.
A man discards the follies of boyhood. I. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To dismiss; displace; discharge; cashier.

DISCARD
Dis*card", v. i. (Card Playing)

Defn: To make a discard.

DISCARD
Dis*card", n. (Card Playing)

Defn: The act of discarding; also, the card or cards discarded.

DISCARDURE
Dis*car"dure, n.

Defn: Rejection; dismissal. [R.] Hayter.

DISCARNATE
Dis*car"nate, a. Etym: [L. dis- + carnatus fleshy, fr. caro, carnis,
flesh.]

Defn: Stripped of flesh. [Obs.] "Discarnate bones." Glanvill.

DISCASE
Dis*case", v. t.

Defn: To strip; to undress. Shak.

DISCEDE
Dis*cede", v. i. Etym: [L. discedere; dis- + cedere to yield.]

Defn: To yield or give up; to depart. [Obs.]
I dare not discede from my copy a tittle. Fuller.

DISCEPT
Dis*cept", v. i. Etym: [L. disceptare.]

Defn: To debate; to discuss. [R.]
One dissertates, he is candid; Two must discept, -- has
distinguished. R. Browning.

DISCEPTATION
Dis`cep*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. disceptatio.]

Defn: Controversy; disputation; discussion. [Archaic]
Verbose janglings and endless disceptations. Strype.

DISCEPTATOR
Dis`cep*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who arbitrates or decides. [R.] Cowley.

DISCERN
Dis*cern", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Discerned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Discerning.] Etym: [F. discerner, L. discernere, discretum; dis- +
cernere to separate, distinguish. See Certain, and cf. Discreet.]

1. To see and identify by noting a difference or differences; to note
the distinctive character of; to discriminate; to distinguish.
To discern such buds as are fit to produce blossoms. Boyle.
A counterfeit stone which thine eye can not discern from a right
stone. Robynson (More's Utopia).

2. To see by the eye or by the understanding; to perceive and
recognize; as, to discern a difference.
And [I] beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, a
young man void of understanding. Prov. vii. 7.
Our unassisted sight . . . is not acute enough to discern the minute
texture of visible objects. Beattie.
I wake, and I discern the truth. Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- To perceive; distinguish; discover; penetrate; discriminate;
espy; descry; detect. See Perceive.

DISCERN
Dis*cern", v. i.

1. To see or understand the difference; to make distinction; as, to
discern between good and evil, truth and falsehood.
More than sixscore thousand that cannot discern between their right
hand their left. Jonah iv. 11.

2. To make cognizance. [Obs.] Bacon.

DISCERNANCE
Dis*cern"ance, n.

Defn: Discernment. [Obs.]

DISCERNER
Dis*cern"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, discerns, distinguishes, perceives, or
judges; as, a discerner of truth, of right and wrong.
A great observer and discerner of men's natures. Clarendon.

DISCERNIBLE
Dis*cern"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. discernibilis.]

Defn: Capable of being discerned by the eye or the understanding; as,
a star is discernible by the eye; the identity of difference of ideas
is discernible by the understanding.
The effect of the privations and sufferings . . . was discernible to
the last in his temper and deportment. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Perceptible; distinguishable; apparent; visible; evident;
manifest.

DISCERNIBLENESS
Dis*cern"i*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being discernible.

DISCERNIBLY
Dis*cern"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In a manner to be discerned; perceptibly; visibly. Hammond.

DISCERNING
Dis*cern"ing, a.

Defn: Acute; shrewd; sagacious; sharp-sighted. Macaulay.

DISCERNINGLY
Dis*cern"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a discerning manner; with judgment; judiciously; acutely.
Garth.

DISCERNMENT
Dis*cern"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. discernement.]

1. The act of discerning.

2. The power or faculty of the mind by which it distinguishes one
thing from another; power of viewing differences in objects, and
their relations and tendencies; penetrative and discriminate mental
vision; acuteness; sagacity; insight; as, the errors of youth often
proceed from the want of discernment.

Syn.
 -- Judgment; acuteness; discrimination; penetration; sagacity;
insight.
 -- Discernment, Penetration, Discrimination. Discernment is keenness
and accuracy of mental vision; penetration is the power of seeing
deeply into a subject in spite of everything that intercepts the
view; discrimination is a capacity of tracing out minute distinctions
and the nicest shades of thought. A discerning man is not easily
misled; one of a penetrating mind sees a multitude of things which
escape others; a discriminating judgment detects the slightest
differences.

DISCERP
Dis*cerp", v. t. Etym: [L. discerpere, discerptum; dis- + carpere to
pluck.]

1. To tear in pieces; to rend. [R.] Stukeley.

2. To separate; to disunite. [R.] Bp. Hurd.

DISCERPIBILITY; DISCERPTIBILITY
Dis*cerp`i*bil"i*ty, Dis*cerp`ti*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability or liableness to be discerped. [R.] Wollaston.

DISCERPIBLE; DISCERPTIBLE
Dis*cerp"i*ble, Dis*cerp"ti*ble, a. Etym: [See Discerp.]

Defn: Capable of being discerped. [R.]

DISCERPTION
Dis*cerp"tion, n. Etym: [L. discerptio.]

Defn: The act of pulling to pieces, or of separating the parts. Bp.
Hall.

DISCERPTIVE
Dis*cerp"tive, a.

Defn: Tending to separate or disunite parts. Encys. Dict.

DISCESSION
Dis*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. discessio, fr. discedere, discessum. See
Discede.]

Defn: Departure. [Obs.]

DISCHARGE
Dis*charge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Discharged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Discharging.] Etym: [OE. deschargen, dischargen, OF. deschargier, F.
décharger; pref. des- (L. dis) + chargier, F. charger. See Charge.]

1. To relieve of a charge, load, or burden; to empty of a load or
cargo; to unburden; to unload; as, to discharge a vessel.

2. To free of the missile with which anything is charged or loaded;
to let go the charge of; as, to discharge a bow, catapult, etc.;
especially, said of firearms, -- to fire off; to shoot off; also, to
relieve from a state of tension, as a Leyden jar.
The galleys also did oftentimes, out of their prows, discharge their
great pieces against the city. Knolles.
Feeling in other cases discharges itself in indirect muscular
actions. H. Spencer.

3. To of something weighing upon or impeding over one, as a debt,
claim, obligation, responsibility, accusation, etc.; to absolve; to
acquit; to clear.
Discharged of business, void of strife. Dryden.
In one man's fault discharge another man of his duty. L'Estrange.

4. To relieve of an office or employment; to send away from service;
to dismiss.
Discharge the common sort With pay and thanks. Shak.
Grindal . . . was discharged the government of his see. Milton.

5. To release legally from confinement; to set at liberty; as, to
discharge a prisoner.

6. To put forth, or remove, as a charge or burden; to take out, as
that with which anything is loaded or filled; as, to discharge a
cargo.

7. To let fly, as a missile; to shoot.
They do discharge their shot of courtesy. Shak.

8. To set aside; to annul; to dismiss.
We say such an order was "discharged on appeal." Mozley & W.
The order for Daly's attendance was discharged. Macaulay.

9. To throw off the obligation of, as a duty or debt; to relieve
one's self of, by fulfilling conditions, performing duty, trust, and
the like; hence, to perform or ex
Had I a hundred tongues, a wit so large As could their hundred
offices discharge. Dryden.

10. To send away (a creditor) satisfied by payment; to pay one's debt
or obligation to. [Obs.]
If he had The present money to discharge the Jew. Shak.

11. To give forth; to emit or send out; as, a pipe discharges water;
to let fly; to give expression to; to utter; as, to discharge a
horrible oath.

12. To prohibit; to forbid. [Scot. Obs.] Sir W. Scott. Discharging
arch (Arch.), an arch over a door, window, or other opening, to
distribute the pressure of the wall above. See Illust. of Lintel.
 -- Discharging piece, Discharging strut (Arch.), a piece set to
carry thrust or weight to a solid point of support.
 -- Discharging rod (Elec.), a bent wire, with knobs at both ends,
and insulated by a glass handle. It is employed for discharging a
Leyden jar or an electrical battery. See Discharger.

Syn.
 -- See Deliver.

DISCHARGE
Dis*charge", v. i.

Defn: To throw off or deliver a load, charge, or burden; to unload;
to emit or give vent to fluid or other contents; as, the water pipe
discharges freely.
The cloud, if it were oily or fatty, would not discharge. Bacon.

DISCHARGE
Dis*charge", n. Etym: [Cf. F. décharge. See Discharge, v. t.]

1. The act of discharging; the act of relieving of a charge or load;
removal of a load or burden; unloading; as, the discharge of a ship;
discharge of a cargo.

2. Firing off; explosive removal of a charge; explosion; letting off;
as, a discharge of arrows, of artillery.

3. Act of relieving of something which oppresses or weighs upon one,
as an obligation, liability, debt, accusation, etc.; acquittance; as,
the discharge of a debtor.

4. Act of removing, or getting rid of, an obligation, liability,
etc.; fulfillment, as by the payment of a debt, or the performance of
a trust or duty.
Indefatigable in the discharge of business. Motley.
Nothing can absolve us from the discharge of those duties.
L'Estrange.

5. Release or dismissal from an office, employment, etc.; dismission;
as, the discharge of a workman by his employer.

6. Legal release from confinement; liberation; as, the discharge of a
prisoner.

7. The state of being discharged or relieved of a debt, obligation,
office, and the like; acquittal.
Too secure of our discharge From penalty. Milton.

8. That which discharges or releases from an obligation, liability,
penalty, etc., as a price of ransom, a legal document.
Death, who sets all free, Hath paid his ransom now and full
discharge. Milton.

9. A flowing or issuing out; emission; vent; evacuation; also, that
which is discharged or emitted; as, a rapid discharge of water from
the pipe.
The hemorrhage being stopped, the next occurrence is a thin serous
discharge. S. Sharp.

Charge and discharge. (Equity Practice) See under Charge, n.
 -- Paralytic discharge (Physiol.), the increased secretion from a
gland resulting from the cutting of all of its nerves.

DISCHARGER
Dis*char"ger, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, discharges. Specifically, in
electricity, an instrument for discharging a Leyden jar, or
electrical battery, by making a connection between the two surfaces;
a discharging rod.

DISCHEVELE
Dis*chev"ele, a.

Defn: Disheveled. [Obs.] Chaucer.

DISCHURCH
Dis*church", v. t.

Defn: To deprive of status as a church, or of membership in a church.
Bp. Hall.

DISCIDE
Dis*cide", v. t. Etym: [L. discidere; dis- + caedere to cut.]

Defn: To divide; to cleave in two. [Obs.] Spenser.

DISCIFEROUS
Dis*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Disc- + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing disks.

DISCIFLORAL; DISCIFLOROUS
Dis`ci*flo"ral, Dis`ci*flo"rous, a. Etym: [See Disk, and Floral.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Bearing the stamens on a discoid outgrowth of the receptacle; -
- said of a subclass of plants. Cf. Calycifloral.

DISCIFORM
Dis"ci*form, a.

Defn: Discoid.

DISCINA
Dis*ci"na, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. discus disk, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Branchiopoda, having a disklike shell, attached by
one valve, which is perforated by the peduncle.

DISCINCT
Dis*cinct, a. Etym: [L. discinctus, p. p. of discingere to ungird;
dis- + cingere to gird.]

Defn: Ungirded; loosely dressed. [R.] Sir W. Scott.

DISCIND
Dis*cind", v. t. Etym: [L. discindere; dis- + scindere to cut,
split.]

Defn: To part; to divide. [Obs.] Boyle.

DISCIPLE
Dis*ci"ple, n. Etym: [OE. disciple, deciple, OF. disciple, fr. L.
discipulus, fr. discere to learn (akin to docere to teach; see
Docile) + prob. a root meaning to turn or drive, as in L. pellere to
drive (see Pulse).]

Defn: One who receives instruction from another; a scholar; a
learner; especially, a follower who has learned to believe in the
truth of the doctrine of his teacher; an adherent in doctrine; as,
the disciples of Plato; the disciples of our Savior. The disciples,
or The twelve disciples, the twelve selected companions of Jesus; --
also called the apostles.
 -- Disciples of Christ. See Christian, n., 3, and Campbellite.

Syn.
 -- Learner; scholar; pupil; follower; adherent.

DISCIPLE
Dis*ci"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Discipled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Discipling.]

1. To teach; to train. [Obs.]
That better were in virtues discipled. Spenser.

2. To punish; to discipline. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

3. To make disciples of; to convert to doctrines or principles. [R.]
Sending missionaries to disciple all nations. E. D. Griffin.

DISCIPLESHIP
Dis*ci"ple*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a disciple or follower in doctrines and
precepts. Jer. Taylor.

DISCIPLESS
Dis*ci"pless, n.

Defn: A female disciple. [Obs.]

DISCIPLINABLE
Dis"ci*plin*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. disciplinable. See Discipline.]

1. Capable of being disciplined or improved by instruction and
training.

2. Liable or deserving to be disciplined; subject to disciplinary
punishment; as, a disciplinable offense.

DISCIPLINABLENESS
Dis"ci*plin*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being improvable by discipline. Sir M. Hale.

DISCIPLINAL
Dis"ci*plin*al, a.

Defn: Relating to discipline. Latham.

DISCIPLINANT
Dis"ci*plin*ant, n. Etym: [See Discipline.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A flagellant. See Flagellant.

DISCIPLINARIAN
Dis`ci*plin*a"ri*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to discipline. "Displinarian system." Milman.

DISCIPLINARIAN
Dis`ci*plin*a"ri*an, n.

1. One who disciplines; one who excels in training, especially with
training, especially with regard to order and obedience; one who
enforces rigid discipline; a stickler for the observance of rules and
methods of training; as, he is a better disciplinarian than scholar.

2. A Puritan or Presbyterian; -- because of rigid adherence to
religious or church discipline. [Obs.]

DISCIPLINARY
Dis"ci*plin*a*ry, a. Etym: [LL. disciplinarius flogging: cf. F.
disciplinaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to discipline; intended for discipline; corrective;
belonging to a course of training.
Those canons . . . were only disciplinary. Bp. Ferne.
The evils of the . . . are disciplinary and remedial. Buckminster.

DISCIPLINE
Dis`ci*pline, n. Etym: [F. discipline, L. disciplina, from
discipulus. See Disciple.]

1. The treatment suited to a disciple or learner; education;
development of the faculties by instruction and exercise; training,
whether physical, mental, or moral.
Wife and children are a kind of discipline of humanity. Bacon.
Discipline aims at the removal of bad habits and the substitution of
good ones, especially those of order, regularity, and obedience. C.
J. Smith.

2. Training to act in accordance with established rules; accustoming
to systematic and regular action; drill.
Their wildness lose, and, quitting nature's part, Obey the rules and
discipline of art. Dryden.

3. Subjection to rule; submissiveness to order and control; habit of
obedience.
The most perfect, who have their passions in the best discipline, are
yet obliged to be constantly on their guard. Rogers.

4. Severe training, corrective of faults; instruction by means of
misfortune, suffering, punishment, etc.
A sharp discipline of half a century had sufficed to educate
Macaulay.

5. Correction; chastisement; punishment inflicted by way of
correction and training.
Giving her the discipline of the strap. Addison.

6. The subject matter of instruction; a branch of knowledge. Bp.
Wilkins.

7. (Eccl.)

Defn: The enforcement of methods of correction against one guilty of
ecclesiastical offenses; reformatory or penal action toward a church
member.

8. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Self- inflicted and voluntary corporal punishment, as penance,
or otherwise; specifically, a penitential scourge.

9. (Eccl.)

Defn: A system of essential rules and duties; as, the Romish or
Anglican discipline.

Syn.
 -- Education; instruction; training; culture; correction;
chastisement; punishment.

DISCIPLINE
Dis"ci*pline, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disciplined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disciplining.] Etym: [Cf. LL. disciplinarian to flog, fr. L.
disciplina discipline, and F. discipliner to discipline.]

1. To educate; to develop by instruction and exercise; to train.

2. To accustom to regular and systematic action; to bring under
control so as to act systematically; to train to act together under
orders; to teach subordination to; to form a habit of obedience in;
to drill.
Ill armed, and worse disciplined. Clarendon.
His mind . . . imperfectly disciplined by nature. Macaulay.

3. To improve by corrective and penal methods; to chastise; to
correct.
Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly Shak.

4. To inflict ecclesiastical censures and penalties upon.

Syn.
 -- To train; form; teach; instruct; bring up; regulate; correct;
chasten; chastise; punish.

DISCIPLINER
Dis"ci*plin*er, n.

Defn: One who disciplines.

DISCLAIM
Dis*claim", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disclaimed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disclaiming.]

1. To renounce all claim to deny; ownership of, or responsibility
for; to disown; to disavow; to reject.
He calls the gods to witness their offense; Disclaims the war,
asserts his innocence. Dryden.
He disclaims the authority of Jesus. Farmer.

2. To deny, as a claim; to refuse.
The payment was irregularly made, if not disclaimed. Milman.

3. (Law)

Defn: To relinquish or deny having a claim; to disavow another's
claim; to decline accepting, as an estate, interest, or office.
Burrill.

Syn.
 -- To disown; disavow; renounce; repudiate.

DISCLAIM
Dis*claim", v. t.

Defn: To disavow or renounce all part, claim, or share. Blackstone.
Disclaim in, Disclaim from, to disown; to disavow. [Obs.] "Nature
disclaims in thee." Shak.

DISCLAIMER
Dis*claim"er, n.

1. One who disclaims, disowns, or renounces.

2. (Law)

Defn: A denial, disavowal, or renunciation, as of a title, claim,
interest, estate, or trust; relinquishment or waiver of an interest
or estate. Burrill.

3. A public disavowal, as of pretensions, claims, opinions, and the
like. Burke.

DISCLAMATION
Dis`cla*ma"tion, n.

Defn: A disavowing or disowning. Bp. Hall.

DISCLAME
Dis*clame", v. t.

Defn: To disclaim; to expel. [Obs.] "Money did love disclame."
Spenser.

DISCLAUNDER
Dis*claun"der, v. t. Etym: [From OE. disclaundre, n., for sclandre,
esclandre, OF. esclandre. See Sclaundre, Slander.]

Defn: To injure one's good name; to slander. [Obs.]

DISCLOAK
Dis*cloak", v. t.

Defn: To take off a cloak from; to uncloak. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

DISCLOSE
Dis*close", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disclosed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disclosing.] Etym: [OE. desclosen, disclosen, fr. disclos, desclos,
not shut in, open, OF. desclos, p. p. of desclore to open, F.
déclore; pref. des- (L. dis-) + clore to shut, fr. L. claudere to
shut. See Close, and cf. Disclusion.]

1. To unclose; to open; -- applied esp. to eggs in the sense of to
hatch.
The ostrich layeth her eggs under sand, where the heat of the
discloseth them. Bacon.

2. To remove a cover or envelope from;; to set free from inclosure;
to uncover.
The shells being broken, . . . the stone included in them is thereby
disclosed and set at liberty. Woodward.

3. To lay open or expose to view; to cause to appear; to bring to
light; to reveal.
How softly on the Spanish shore she plays, Disclosing rock, and
slope, and forest brown! Byron.
Her lively looks a sprightly mind disclose. Pope.

4. To make known, as that which has been kept secret or hidden; to
reveal; to expose; as, events have disclosed his designs.
If I disclose my passion, Our friendship 's an end. Addison.

Syn.
 -- To uncover; open; unveil; discover; reveal; divulge; tell; utter.

DISCLOSE
Dis*close", n.

Defn: Disclosure. [Obs.] Shak. Young.

DISCLOSED
Dis*closed", p. a. (Her.)

Defn: Represented with wings expanded; -- applied to doves and other
birds not of prey. Cussans.

DISCLOSER
Dis*clos"er, n.

Defn: One who discloses.

DISCLOSURE
Dis*clo"sure, n. Etym: [See Disclose, v. t., and cf. Closure.]

1. The act of disclosing, uncovering, or revealing; bringing to
light; exposure.
He feels it [his secret] beating at his heart, rising to his throat,
and demanding disclosure. D. Webster.

2. That which is disclosed or revealed.
Were the disclosures of 1695 forgotten Macaulay.

DISCLOUD
Dis*cloud", v. t.

Defn: To clear from clouds. [Archaic] Fuller.

DISCLOUT
Dis*clout", v. t.

Defn: To divest of a clout. [R.]

DISCLUSION
Dis*clu"sion, n. Etym: [L. disclusio, fr. discludere, disclusum, to
separate. See Disclose.]

Defn: A shutting off; exclusion. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

DISCOAST
Dis*coast", v. i. Etym: [Pref. dis- + coast: cf. It. discostare.]

Defn: To depart; to quit the coast (that is, the side or border) of
anything; to be separated. [Obs.]
As far as heaven and earth discoasted lie. G. Fletcher.
To discoast from the plain and simple way of speech. Barrow.

DISCOBLASTIC
Dis`co*blas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Applied to a form of egg cleavage seen in osseous fishes, which
occurs only in a small disk that separates from the rest of the egg.

DISCOBOLUS
Dis*cob"o*lus, n.; pl. Discoboli. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Fine Arts)
(a) A thrower of the discus.
(b) A statue of an athlete holding the discus, or about to throw it

Note: The Discobolus of Myron was a famous statue of antiquity, and
several copies or imitations of it have been preserved.

DISCODACTYL
Dis`co*dac"tyl, n. Etym: [See Discodactylia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the tree frogs.

DISCODACTYLIA
Dis`co*dac*tyl"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of amphibians having suctorial disks on the toes, as
the tree frogs.

DISCODACTYLOUS
Dis`co*dac"tyl*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having sucking disks on the toes, as the tree frogs.

DISCOHERENT
Dis`co*her"ent, a.

Defn: Incoherent. [R.]

DISCOID
Dis"coid, a. Etym: [Gr. discoïde. See Disk.]

Defn: Having the form of a disk, as those univalve shells which have
the whorls in one plane, so as to form a disk, as the pearly
nautilus. Discoid flower (Bot.), a compound flower, consisting of
tubular florets only, as a tansy, lacking the rays which are seen in
the daisy and sunflower.

DISCOID
Dis"coid, n.

Defn: Anything having the form of a discus or disk; particularly, a
discoid shell.

DISCOIDAL
Dis*coid"al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. discoïdal.]

Defn: Disk-shaped; discoid.

DISCOLITH
Dis"co*lith, n. Etym: [Gr. -lith.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of a species of coccoliths, having an oval discoidal body,
with a thick strongly refracting rim, and a thinner central portion.
One of them measures about

DISCOLOR
Dis*col"or, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Discolored; p. pr. & vb. n.
Discoloring.] Etym: [OE. descolouren, OF. descolorer, F. décolorer,
fr. L. dis- + cololare, coloratum, to color, color color. See Color.]
[Written also discolour.]

1. To alter the natural hue or color of; to change to a different
color; to stain; to tinge; as, a drop of wine will discolor water;
silver is discolored by sea water.

2. To alter the true complexion or appearance of; to put a false hue
upon.
To discolor all your ideas. Wat

DISCOLORATE
Dis*col"or*ate, v. t.

Defn: To discolor. [R.] Fuller.

DISCOLORATION
Dis*col`or*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. decoloration.]

1. The act of discoloring, or the state of being discolored;
alteration of hue or appearance. Darwin.

2. A discolored spot; a stain. Arbuthnot.

DISCOLORED
Dis*col"ored, a.

1. Altered in color;

2. Variegated; of divers colors. [R.]
That ever wore discolored arms. Chapman.

DISCOMFIT
Dis*com"fit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Discomfited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Discomfiting.] Etym: [OF. desconfit, p. p. of desconfire, F.
déconfire; fr. L. dis- + conficere to make ready, prepare, bring
about. See Comfit, Fact.]

1. To scatter in fight; to put to rout; to defeat.
And his proud foes discomfit in victorious field. Spenser.

2. To break up and frustrate the plans of; to balk
Well, go with me and be not so discomfited. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To defeat; overthrow; overpower; vanquish; conquer; baffle;
frustrate; confound; discourage.

DISCOMFIT
Dis*com"fit, a.

Defn: Discomfited; overthrown. [Obs.]

DISCOMFIT
Dis*com"fit, n.

Defn: Rout; overthrow; discomfiture.
Such as discomfort as shall quite despoil him. Milton.

DISCOMFITURE
Dis*com"fi*ture, n. Etym: [OF. desconfiture, F. déconfiture. See
Discomfort, v. t., and cf. Comfiture.]

Defn: The act of discomfiting, or the state of being discomfited;
rout; overthrow; defeat; frustration; confusion and dejection.
Every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great
discomfiture. 1 Sam. xiv. 20.
A hope destined to end . . . in discomfiture and disgrace. Macaulay.

DISCOMFORT
Dis*com"fort, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Discomforted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Discomforting.] Etym: [OF. desconforter, F. déconforter, to
discourage; pref. des- (L dis-) + conforter. See Comfort.]

1. To discourage; to deject.
His funeral shall not be in our camp, Lest it discomfort us. Shak.

2. To destroy or disturb the comfort of; to deprive oas, a smoky
chimney discomforts a family.

DISCOMFORT
Dis*com"fort, n. Etym: [OF. desconfort, F. déconfort. See Discomfort,
v. t.]

1. Discouragement. [Obs.] Shak.

2. Want of comfort; uneasiness, mental or physical; disturbance of
peace; inquietude; pain; distress; sorrow. "An age of spiritual
discomfort." M. Arnold.
Strive against all the discomforts of thy sufferings. Bp. Hall.

DISCOMFORTABLE
Dis*com"fort*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. desconfortable.]

1. Causing discomfort; occasioning uneasiness; making sad. [Obs.] Sir
P. Sidney.

2. Destitute of comfort; uncomfortable. [R.]
A labyrinth of little discomfortable garrets. Thackeray.
-- Dis*com"fort*a*ble*ness, n. [Obs.]

DISCOMMEND
Dis`com*mend", v. t.

1. To mention with disapprobation; to blame; to disapprove. [R.]
Spenser.
By commending something in him that is good, and discommending the
same fault in others. Jer. Taylor.

2. To expose to censure or ill favor; to put out of the good graces
of any one.
A compliance will discommend me to Mr. Coventry. Pepys.

DISCOMMENDABLE
Dis`com*mend"a*ble, a.

Defn: Deserving, disapprobation or blame.
 -- Dis`com*mend"a*ble*ness, n.

DISCOMMENDATION
Dis*com`men*da"tion, n.

Defn: Blame; censure; reproach. [R.] Ayliffe.

DISCOMMENDER
Dis`com*mend"er, n.

Defn: One who discommends; a dispraiser. Johnson.

DISCOMMISSION
Dis`com*mis"sion, v. t.

Defn: To deprive of a commission or trust. [R.] Laud.

DISCOMMODATE
Dis*com"mo*date, v. t. Etym: [L. dis- + commodatus, p. p. of
commodare to make fit or suitable, fr. commodus fit, commodious. See
Commodious, and cf. Discommode.]

Defn: To discommode. [Obs.] Howell.

DISCOMMODE
Dis`com*mode", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Discommoded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Discommoding.] Etym: [See Discommodate.]

Defn: To put inconvenience; to incommode; to trouble. [R.]

Syn.
 -- To incommode; annoy; inconvenience.

DISCOMMODIOUS
Dis`com*mo"di*ous, a.

Defn: Inconvenient; troublesome; incommodious. [R.] Spenser.
 -- Dis`com*mo"di*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Dis`com*mo"di*ous*ness, n.

DISCOMMODITY
Dis`com*mod"i*ty, n.

Defn: Disadvantage; inconvenience. Bacon.

DISCOMMON
Dis*com"mon, v. t.

1. To deprive of the right of common. [R.] Bp. Hall.

2. To deprive of privileges. [R.] T. Warton.

3. (Law)

Defn: To deprive of commonable quality, as lands, by inclosing or
appropriating. Burrill.

DISCOMMUNITY
Dis`com*mu"ni*ty, n.

Defn: A lack of common possessions, properties, or relationship.
Community of embryonic structure reveals community of descent; but
dissimilarity of embryonic development does not prove discommunity of
descent. Darwin.

DISCOMPANY
Dis*com"pa*ny, v. t.

Defn: To free from company; to dissociate. [R.]
It she be alone now, and discompanied. B. Jonson.

DISCOMPLEXION
Dis`com*plex"ion, v. t.

Defn: To change the complexion or hue of. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

DISCOMPLIANCE
Dis`com*pli"ance, n.

Defn: Failure or refusal to comply; noncompliance.
A compliance will discommend me to Mr. Coventry, and a discompliance
to my lord chancellor. Pepys.

DISCOMPOSE
Dis`com*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Discomposed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Discomposing.] Etym: [Pref. dis- + compose: cf. OF. decomposer, F.
décomposer.]

1. To disarrange; to interfere with; to disturb; to disorder; to
unsettle; to break up.
Or discomposed the headdress of a prude. Pope.

2. To throw into disorder; to ruffle; to destroy the composure or
equanimity; to agitate.
Opposition . . . discomposeth the mind's serenity. Glanvill.

3. To put out of place or service; to discharge; to displace. [Obs.]
Bacon.

Syn.
 -- To disorder; derange; unsettle; disturb; disconcert; agitate;
ruffle; fret; vex.

DISCOMPOSED
Dis`com*posed", a.

Defn: Disordered; disturbed; disquieted.
 -- Dis`com*pos"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Dis`com*pos"ed*ness, n.

DISCOMPOSITION
Dis*com`po*si"tion, n.

Defn: Inconsistency; discordance. [Obs.] Donne.

DISCOMPOSURE
Dis`com*po"sure, n.

1. The state of being discomposed; disturbance; disorder; agitation;
perturbation.
No discomposure stirred her features. Akenside.

2. Discordance; disagreement of parts. [Obs.] Boyle.

DISCOMPT
Dis*compt", v. t. Etym: [See Discount.]

Defn: To discount. See Discount. Hudibras.

DISCONCERT
Dis`con*cert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Disconcerted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Disconcerting.] Etym: [Pref. dis- + concert: cf. OF. desconcerter, F.
déconcerter.]

1. To break up the harmonious progress of; to throw into disorder or
confusion; as, the emperor disconcerted the plans of his enemy.

2. To confuse the faculties of; to disturb the composure of; to
discompose; to abash.
The embrace disconcerted the daughter-in-law somewhat, as the
caresses of old gentlemen unshorn and perfumed with tobacco might
well do. Thackeray.

Syn.
 -- To discompose; derange; ruffle; confuse; disturb; defeat;
frustrate.

DISCONCERT
Dis`con*cert", n.

Defn: Want of concert; disagreement. Sir W. Temple.

DISCONCERTION
Dis`con*cer"tion, n.

Defn: The act of disconcerting, or state of being disconcerted;
discomposure; perturbation. [R.] State Trials (1794).

DISCONDUCIVE
Dis`con*du"cive, a.

Defn: Not conductive; impeding; disadvantageous. [R.]

DISCONFORMABLE
Dis`con*form"a*ble, a.

Defn: Not conformable.
Disconformable in religion from us. Stow (1603).

DISCONFORMITY
Dis`con*form"i*ty, n.

Defn: Want of conformity or correspondence; inconsistency;
disagreement.
Those . . . in some disconformity to ourselves. Milton.
Disagreement and disconformity betwixt the speech and the conception
of the mind. Hakewill.