

FIRMAMENTAL
Fir`ma*men"tal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the firmament; celestial; being of the upper
regions. Dryden.

FIRMAN
Fir"man ( or ), n.; pl. Firmans or. Etym: [Pers. ferman.]

Defn: In Turkey and some other Oriental countries, a decree or
mandate issued by the sovereign; a royal order or grant; -- generally
given for special objects, as to a traveler to insure him protection
and assistance. [Written also firmaun.]

FIRMER-CHISEL
Firm"er-chis"el, n.

Defn: A chisel, thin in proportion to its width. It has a tang to
enter the handle instead of a socket for receiving it. Knight.

FIRMITUDE
Firm"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. firmitudo. See Firm.]

Defn: Strength; stability. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

FIRMITY
Firm"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. firmitas.]

Defn: Strength; firmness; stability. [Obs.] Chillingworth.

FIRMLESS
Firm"less, a.

1. Detached from substance. [Obs.]
Does passion still the firmless mind control Pope.

2. Infirm; unstable. "Firmless sands." Sylvester.

FIRMLY
Firm"ly, adv.

Defn: In a firm manner.

FIRMNESS
Firm"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being firm.

Syn.
 -- Firmness, Constancy. Firmness belongs to the will, and constancy
to the affections and principles; the former prevents us from
yielding, and the latter from fluctuating. Without firmness a man has
no character; "without constancy," says Addison, "there is neither
love, friendship, nor virtue in the world."

FIRMS
Firms, n. pl. Etym: [From Firm, a.] (Arch.)

Defn: The principal rafters of a roof, especially a pair of rafters
taken together. [Obs.]

FIRRING
Fir"ring, n. (Arch.)

Defn: See Furring.

FIRRY
Fir"ry, a.

Defn: Made of fir; abounding in firs.
In firry woodlands making moan. Tennyson.

FIRST
First, a. Etym: [OE. first, furst, AS. fyrst; akin to Icel. fyrstr,
Sw. & Dan. förste, OHG. furist, G. fürst prince; a superlatiye form
of E. for, fore. See For, Fore, and cf. Formeer, Foremost.]

1. Preceding all others of a series or kind; the ordinal of one;
earliest; as, the first day of a month; the first year of a reign.

2. Foremost; in front of, or in advance of, all others.

3. Most eminent or exalted; most excellent; chief; highest; as,
Demosthenes was the first orator of Greece. At first blush. See under
Blush.
 -- At first hand, from the first or original source; without the
intervention of any agent.
It is the intention of the person to reveal it at first hand, by way
of mouth, to yourself. Dickens.
-- First coat (Plastering), the solid foundation of coarse stuff, on
which the rest is placed; it is thick, and crossed with lines, so as
to give a bond for the next coat.
 -- First day, Sunday; -- so called by the Friends.
 -- First floor. (a) The ground floor. [U.S.] (b) The floor next
above the ground floor. [Eng.] -- First fruit or fruits. (a) The
fruits of the season earliest gathered. (b) (Feudal Law) One year's
profits of lands belonging to the king on the death of a tenant who
held directly from him. (c) (Eng. Eccl. Law) The first year's whole
profits of a benefice or spiritual living. (d) The earliest effects
or results.
See, Father, what first fruits on earth are sprung From thy implanted
grace in man! Milton.
-- First mate, an officer in a merchant vessel next in rank to the
captain.
 -- First name, same as Christian name. See under Name, n.
 -- First officer (Naut.), in the merchant service, same as First
mate (above).
 -- First sergeant (Mil.), the ranking non-commissioned officer in a
company; the orderly sergeant. Farrow.
 -- First watch (Naut.), the watch from eight to twelve at midnight;
also, the men on duty during that time.
 -- First water, the highest quality or purest luster; -- said of
gems, especially of diamond and pearls.

Syn.
 -- Primary; primordial; primitive; primeval; pristine; highest;
chief; principal; foremost.

FIRST
First, adv.

Defn: Before any other person or thing in time, space, rank, etc.; --
much used in composition with adjectives and participles.
Adam was first formed, then Eve. 1 Tim. ii. 13.
At first, At the first, at the beginning or origin.
 -- First or last, at one time or another; at the beginning or end.
And all are fools and lovers first or last. Dryden.

FIRST
First, n. (Mus.)

Defn: The upper part of a duet, trio, etc., either vocal or
instrumental; -- so called because it generally expresses the air,
and has a preëminence in the combined effect.

FIRSTBORN
First"born`, a.

Defn: First brought forth; first in the order of nativity; eldest;
hence, most excellent; most distinguished or exalted.

FIRST-CLASS
First"-class`, a.

Defn: Of the best class; of the highest rank; in the first division;
of the best quality; first-rate; as, a first-class telescope. First-
class car or First-class railway carriage, any passenger car of the
highest regular class, and intended for passengers who pay the
highest regular rate; -- distinguished from a second-class car.

FIRST-HAND
First"-hand`, a.

Defn: Obtained directly from the first or original source; hence,
without the intervention of an agent.
One sphere there is . . . where the apprehension of him is first-hand
and direct; and that is the sphere of our own mind. J. Martineau.

FIRSTLING
First"ling, n. Etym: [First + -ling.]

1. The first produce or offspring; -- said of animals, especially
domestic animals; as, the firstlings of his flock. Milton.

2. The thing first thought or done.
The very firstlings of my heart shall be The firstlings of my hand.
Shak.

FIRSTLING
First"ling, a.

Defn: Firstborn.
All the firstling males. Deut. xv. 19.

FIRSTLY
First"ly, adv.

Defn: In the first place; before anything else; -- sometimes
improperly used for first.

FIRST-RATE
First"-rate`, a.

Defn: Of the highest excellence; preëminent in quality, size, or
estimation.
Our only first-rate body of contemporary poetry is the German. M.
Arnold.
Hermocrates . . . a man of first-rate ability. Jowett (Thucyd).

FIRST-RATE
First"-rate`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A war vessel of the highest grade or the most powerful class.

FIRTH
Firth, n. Etym: [Scot. See Frith.] (geog.)

Defn: An arm of the sea; a frith.

FIR TREE
Fir" tree`

Defn: . See Fir.

FISC
Fisc, n. Etym: [F. fisc, fr. L. fiscus basket, money basket,
treasury; prob. akin to fascis bundle. See Fasces.]

Defn: A public or state treasury. Burke.

FISCAL
Fis"cal, a. Etym: [F. fiscal, L. fiscalis, fr. fiscus. See Fisc.]

Defn: Pertaining to the public treasury or revenue.
The fiscal arreangements of government. A. Hamilton.

FISCAL
Fis"cal, n.

1. The income of a prince or a state; revenue; exhequer. [Obs.]
Bacon.

2. A treasurer. H. Swinburne.

3. A public officer in Scotland who prosecutes in petty criminal
cases; -- called also procurator fiscal.

4. The solicitor in Spain and Portugal; the attorney-general.

FISETIC
Fi*set"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to fustet or fisetin.

FISETIN
Fis"e*tin, n. Etym: [G. fisettholz a species of fustic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow crystalline substance extracted from fustet, and
regarded as its essential coloring principle; -- called also fisetic
acid.

FISH
Fish, n. Etym: [F. fiche peg, mark, fr. fisher to fix.]

Defn: A counter, used in various games.

FISH
Fish, n.; pl. Fishes, or collectively, Fish. Etym: [OE. fisch, fisc,
fis, AS. fisc; akin to D. visch, OS. & OHG. fisk, G. fisch, Icel.
fiskr, Sw. & Dan. fisk, Goth. fisks, L. piscis, Ir. iasg. Cf.
Piscatorial. In some cases, such as fish joint, fish plate, this word
has prob. been confused with fish, fr. F. fichea peg.]

1. A name loosely applied in popular usage to many animals of diverse
characteristics, living in the water.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An oviparous, vertebrate animal usually having fins and a
covering scales or plates. It breathes by means of gills, and lives
almost entirely in the water. See Pisces.

Note: The true fishes include the Teleostei (bony fishes), Ganoidei,
Dipnoi, and Elasmobranchii or Selachians (sharks and skates).
Formerly the leptocardia and Marsipobranciata were also included, but
these are now generally regarded as two distinct classes, below the
fishes.

3. pl.

Defn: The twelfth sign of the zodiac; Pisces.

4. The flesh of fish, used as food.

5. (Naut.)
(a) A purchase used to fish the anchor.
(b) A piece of timber, somewhat in the form of a fish, used to
strengthen a mast or yard.

Note: Fish is used adjectively or as part of a compound word; as,
fish line, fish pole, fish spear, fish-bellied. Age of Fishes. See
under Age, n., 8.
 -- Fish ball, fish (usually salted codfish) shared fine, mixed with
mashed potato, and made into the form of a small, round cake. [U.S.]
-- Fish bar. Same as Fish plate (below).
 -- Fish beam (Mech.), a beam one of whose sides (commonly the under
one) swells out like the belly of a fish. Francis.
 -- Fish crow (Zoöl.), a species of crow (Corvus ossifragus), found
on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It feeds largely on fish.
 -- Fish culture, the artifical breeding and rearing of fish;
pisciculture.
 -- Fish davit. See Davit.
 -- Fish day, a day on which fish is eaten; a fast day.
 -- Fish duck (Zoöl.), any species of merganser.
 -- Fish fall, the tackle depending from the fish davit, used in
hauling up the anchor to the gunwale of a ship.
 -- Fish garth, a dam or weir in a river for keeping fish or taking
them easily.
 -- Fish glue. See Isinglass.
 -- Fish joint, a joint formed by a plate or pair of plates fastened
upon two meeting beams, plates, etc., at their junction; -- used
largely in connecting the rails of railroads.
 -- Fish kettle, a long kettle for boiling fish whole.
 -- Fish ladder, a dam with a series of steps which fish can leap in
order to ascend falls in a river.
 -- Fish line, or Fishing line, a line made of twisted hair, silk,
etc., used in angling.
 -- Fish louse (Zoöl.), any crustacean parasitic on fishes, esp. the
parasitic Copepoda, belonging to Caligus, Argulus, and other related
genera. See Branchiura.
 -- Fish maw (Zoöl.), the stomach of a fish; also, the air bladder,
or sound.
 -- Fish meal, fish desiccated and ground fine, for use in soups,
etc.
 -- Fish oil, oil obtained from the bodies of fish and marine
animals, as whales, seals, sharks, from cods' livers, etc.
 -- Fish owl (Zoöl.), a fish-eating owl of the Old World genera
Scotopelia and Ketupa, esp. a large East Indian species (K.
Ceylonensis).
 -- Fish plate, one of the plates of a fish joint.
 -- Fish pot, a wicker basket, sunk, with a float attached, for
catching crabs, lobsters, etc.
 -- Fish pound, a net attached to stakes, for entrapping and catching
fish; a weir. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett.
 -- Fish slice, a broad knife for dividing fish at table; a fish
trowel.
 -- Fish slide, an inclined box set in a stream at a small fall, or
ripple, to catch fish descending the current. Knight.
 -- Fish sound, the air bladder of certain fishes, esp. those that
are dried and used as food, or in the arts, as for the preparation of
isinglass.
 -- Fish story, a story which taxes credulity; an extravagant or
incredible narration. [Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett.
 -- Fish strainer. (a) A metal colander, with handles, for taking
fish from a boiler. (b) A perforated earthenware slab at the bottom
of a dish, to drain the water from a boiled fish.
 -- Fish trowel, a fish slice.
 -- Fish weir or wear, a weir set in a stream, for catching fish.
 -- Neither fish nor flesh (Fig.), neither one thing nor the other.

FISH
Fish, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Fished; p. pr. & vb. n. Fishing.]

1. To attempt to catch fish; to be employed in taking fish, by any
means, as by angling or drawing a net.

2. To seek to obtain by artifice, or indirectly to seek to draw
forth; as, to fish for compliments.
Any other fishing question. Sir W. Scott.

FISH
Fish, v. t. Etym: [OE. fischen, fisken, fissen, AS. fiscian; akin to
G. fischen, OHG. fisc, Goth. fisk. See Fish the animal.]

1. To catch; to draw out or up; as, to fish up an anchor.

2. To search by raking or sweeping. Swift.

3. To try with a fishing rod; to catch fish in; as, to fish a stream.
Thackeray.

4. To strengthen (a beam, mast, etc.), or unite end to end (two
timbers, railroad rails, etc.) by bolting a plank, timber, or plate
to the beam, mast, or timbers, lengthwise on one or both sides. See
Fish joint, under Fish, n. To fish the anchor. (Naut.) See under
Anchor.

FISH-BELLIED
Fish"-bel`lied, a.

Defn: Bellying or swelling out on the under side; as, a fish-bellied
rail. Knight.

FISH-BLOCK
Fish"-block`, n.

Defn: See Fish-tackle.

FISHER
Fish"er, n. Etym: [AS. fiscere.]

1. One who fishes.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela Canadensis);
the pekan; the "black cat."

FISHERMAN
Fish"er*man, n.; pl. Fishermen (.

1. One whose occupation is to catch fish.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A ship or vessel employed in the business of taking fish, as in
the cod fishery.

FISHERY
Fish"er*y, n.; pl. Fisheries (.

1. The business or practice of catching fish; fishing. Addison.

2. A place for catching fish.

3. (Law)

Defn: The right to take fish at a certain place, or in particular
waters. Abbott.

FISHFUL
Fish"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding with fish. [R.] "My fishful pond." R. Carew.

FISHGIG
Fish"gig`, n.

Defn: A spear with barbed prongs used for harpooning fish. Knight.

FISHHAWK
Fish"hawk`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The osprey (Pandion haliaëtus), found both in Europe and
America; -- so called because it plunges into the water and seizes
fishes in its talons. Called also fishing eagle, and bald buzzard.

FISHHOOK
Fish"hook`, n.

1. A hook for catching fish.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A hook with a pendant, to the end of which the fish-tackle is
hooked. Dana.

FISHIFY
Fish"i*fy, v. t.

Defn: To change to fish. [R.] Shak.

FISHINESS
Fish"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being fishy or fishlike. Pennant.

FISHING
Fish"ing, n.

1. The act, practice, or art of one who fishes.

2. A fishery. Spenser.

FISHING
Fish"ing, a. Etym: [From Fishing, n.]

Defn: Pertaining to fishing; used in fishery; engaged in fishing; as,
fishing boat; fishing tackle; fishing village. Fishing fly, an
artificial fly for fishing.
 -- Fishing line, a line used in catching fish.
 -- Fishing net, a net of various kinds for catching fish; including
the bag net, casting net, drag net, landing net, seine, shrimping
net, trawl, etc.
 -- Fishing rod, a long slender rod, to which is attached the line
for angling.
 -- Fishing smack, a sloop or other small vessel used in sea fishing.
 -- Fishing tackle, apparatus used in fishing, as hook, line, rod,
etc.
 -- Fishing tube (Micros.), a glass tube for selecting a microscopic
object in a fluid.

FISHLIKE
Fish"like, a.

Defn: Like fish; suggestive of fish; having some of the qualities of
fish.
A very ancient and fishlike smell. Shak.

FISHMONGER
Fish"mon`ger, n.

Defn: A dealer in fish.

FISHSKIN
Fish"skin`, n.

1. The skin of a fish (dog fish, shark, etc.)

2. (Med.)

Defn: See Ichthyosis.

FISH-TACKLE
Fish"-tac`kle, n.

Defn: A tackle or purchase used to raise the flukes of the anchor up
to the gunwale. The block used is called the fish-block.

FISH-TAIL
Fish"-tail`, a.

Defn: Like the of a fish; acting, or producing something, like the
tail of a fish. Fish-tail burner, a gas burner that gives a spreading
flame shaped somewhat like the tail of a fish.
 -- Fish-tail propeller (Steamship), a propeller with a single blade
that oscillates like the tail of a fish when swimming.

FISHWIFE
Fish"wife`, n.

Defn: A fishwoman.

FISHWOMAN
Fish"wom`an, n.; pl. Fishwomen (.

Defn: A woman who retails fish.

FISHY
Fish"y, a.

1. Consisting of fish; fishlike; having the qualities or taste of
fish; abounding in fish. Pope.

2. Extravagant, like some stories about catching fish; improbable;
also, rank or foul. [Colloq.]

FISK
Fisk, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Sw. fjeska to bustle about.]

Defn: To run about; to frisk; to whisk. [Obs.]
He fisks abroad, and stirreth up erroneous opinions. Latimer.

FISSIGEMMATION
Fis`si*gem*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. fissus (p.p. of findere to split) +
E. gemmation.] (Biol.)

Defn: A process of reproduction intermediate between fission and
gemmation.

FISSILE
Fis"sile, a. Etym: [L. fissilis, fr. fissus, p.p. of findere to
split. See Fissure.]

Defn: Capable of being split, cleft, or divided in the direction of
the grain, like wood, or along natural planes of cleavage, like
crystals.
This crystal is a pellucid, fissile stone. Sir I. Newton.

FISSILINGUAL
Fis`si*lin"gual, a. Etym: [L. fissus (p.p. of findere to split) + E.
lingual.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the tongue forked.

FISSILINGUIA
Fis`si*lin"gui*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. fissus (p.p. o f findere
to split) + lingua tongue.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Lacertilia having the tongue forked, including the
common lizards. [Written also Fissilingues.]

FISSILITY
Fis*sil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Quality of being fissile.

FISSION
Fis"sion, n. Etym: [L. fissio. See Fissure.]

1. A cleaving, splitting, or breaking up into parts.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A method of asexual reproduction among the lowest (unicellular)
organisms by means of a process of self-division, consisting of
gradual division or cleavage of the into two parts, each of which
then becomes a separate and independent organisms; as when a cell in
an animal or plant, or its germ, undergoes a spontaneous division,
and the parts again subdivide. See Segmentation, and Cell division,
under Division.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A process by which certain coral polyps, echinoderms, annelids,
etc., spontaneously subdivide, each individual thus forming two or
more new ones. See Strobilation.

FISSIPALMATE
Fis`si*pal"mate, a. Etym: [L. fissus (p.p. of findere to split) +
palma palm.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Semipalmate and loboped, as a grebe's foot. See Illust. under
Aves.

FISSIPARA
Fis*sip"a*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Fissiparous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Animals which reproduce by fission.

FISSIPARISM
Fis*sip"a*rism, n. Etym: [See Fissiparous.] (Biol.)

Defn: Reproduction by spontaneous fission.

FISSIPARITY
Fis`si*par"i*ty, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Quality of being fissiparous; fissiparism.

FISSIPAROUS
Fis*sip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. fissus (p.p. of findere to split) +
parere to bring forth: cf. F. fissipare.] (Biol.)

Defn: Reproducing by spontaneous fission. See Fission.
 -- Fis*sip"a*rous*ly, adv.

FISSIPATION
Fis`si*pa"tion, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Reproduction by fission; fissiparism.

FISSIPED; FISSIPEDAL
Fis"si*ped, Fis*sip"e*dal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. fissipède.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the toes separated to the base. [See Aves.]

FISSIPED
Fis"si*ped, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Fissipedia.

FISSIPEDIA
Fis`si*pe"di*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. fissus (p.p. of findere to
cleave) + pes, pedis, a foot.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Carnivora, including the dogs, cats, and
bears, in which the feet are not webbed; -- opposed to Pinnipedia.

FISSIROSTRAL
Fis`si*ros"tral, a. Etym: [Cf. F. fissirostre.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the bill cleft beyond the horny part, as in the case of
swallows and goatsuckers.

FISSIROSTRES
Fis`si*ros"tres, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. fissus (p.p. of findere to
cleave) + rostrum beak.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of birds having the bill deeply cleft.

FISSURAL
Fis"sur*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a fissure or fissures; as, the fissural pattern
of a brain.

FISSURATION
Fis`su*ra"tion, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The act of dividing or opening; the state of being fissured.

FISSURE
Fis"sure, n. Etym: [L. fissura, fr. findere, fissum, to cleave,
split; akin to E. bite: cf. F. fissure.]

Defn: A narrow opening, made by the parting of any substance; a
cleft; as, the fissure of a rock. Cerebral fissures (Anat.), the
furrows or clefts by which the surface of the cerebrum is divided;
esp., the furrows first formed by the infolding of the whole wall of
the cerebrum.
 -- Fissure needle (Surg.), a spiral needle for catching together the
gaping lips of wounds. Knight.
 -- Fissure of rolando (Anat.), the furrow separating the frontal
from the parietal lobe in the cerebrum.
 -- Fissure of Sylvius (Anat.), a deep cerebral fissure separating
the frontal from the temporal lobe. See Illust. under Brain.
 -- Fissure vein (Mining), a crack in the earth's surface filled with
mineral matter. Raymond.

FISSURE
Fis"sure, v. t.

Defn: To cleave; to divide; to crack or fracture.

FISSURELLA
Fis`su*rel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. fissura a fissure.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine gastropod mollusks, having a conical or
limpetlike shell, with an opening at the apex; -- called also keyhole
limpet.

FIST
Fist, n. Etym: [OE. fist, fust, AS. f; akin to D. vuist, OHG. f, G.
faust, and prob. to L. pugnus, Gr. Pugnacious, Pigmy.]

1. The hand with the fingers doubled into the palm; the closed hand,
especially as clinched tightly for the purpose of striking a blow.
Who grasp the earth and heaven with my fist. Herbert.

2. The talons of a bird of prey. [Obs.]
More light than culver in the falcon's fist. Spenser.

3. (print.)

Defn: the index mark [], used to direct special attention to the
passage which follows. Hand over fist (Naut.), rapidly; hand over
hand.

FIST
Fist, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fisted; p. pr. & vb. n. Fisting.]

1. To strike with the fist. Dryden.

2. To gripe with the fist. [Obs.] Shak.

FISTIC
Fist"ic, a. Etym: [From Fist.]

Defn: Pertaining to boxing, or to encounters with the fists;
puglistic; as, fistic exploits; fistic heroes. [Colloq.]

FISTICUFF
Fist"i*cuff, n.

Defn: A cuff or blow with the fist or hand; (pl.)

Defn: a fight with the fists; boxing. Swift.

FISTINUT
Fis"ti*nut, n. Etym: [Cf. Fr. fistinq, fistuq. See Pistachio.]

Defn: A pistachio nut. [Obs.] Johnson.

FISTUCA
Fis*tu"ca, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: An instrument used by the ancients in driving piles.

FISTULA
Fis"tu*la, n.; pl. Fistulæ. Etym: [L.]

1. A reed; a pipe.

2. A pipe for convejing water. [Obs.] Knight.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A permanent abnormal opening into the soft parts with a
constant discharge; a deep, narrow, chronic abscess; an abnormal
opening between an internal cavity and another cavity or the surface;
as, a salivary fistula; an anal fistula; a recto-vaginal fistula.
Incomplete fistula (Med.), a fistula open at one end only.

FISTULAR
Fis"tu*lar, a. Etym: [L. fistularis: cf. F. fistulaire.]

Defn: Hollow and cylindrical, like a pipe or reed. Johnson.

FISTULARIA
Fis`tu*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. fistula pipe.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fishes, having the head prolonged into a tube, with
the mouth at the extremity.

FISTULARIOID
Fis`tu*la"ri*oid, a. Etym: [Fistularia + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the genus Fistularia.

FISTULATE
Fis"tu*late, v. t. & i. Etym: [Cf. L. fistulatus furnished with
pipes.]

Defn: To make hollow or become hollow like a fistula, or pipe. [Obs.]
"A fistulated ulcer." Fuller.

FISTULE
Fis"tule, n.

Defn: A fistula.

FISTULIFORM
Fis"tu*li*form ( or ), a. Etym: [Fistula + -form.]

Defn: Of a fistular form; tubular; pipe-shaped.
Stalactite often occurs fistuliform. W. Philips.

FISTULOSE
Fis"tu*lose`, a. Etym: [L. fistulosus.]

Defn: Formed like a fistula; hollow; reedlike. Craig.

FISTULOUS
Fis"tu*lous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. fistuleux.]

1. Having the form or nature of a fistula; as, a fistulous ulcer.

2. Hollow, like a pipe or reed; fistulose. Lindley.

FIT
Fit,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Fight. [Obs. or Colloq.]

FIT
Fit, n. Etym: [AS. fitt a song.]

Defn: In Old English, a song; a strain; a canto or portion of a
ballad; a passus. [Written also fitte, fytte, etc.]
To play some pleasant fit. Spenser.

FIT
Fit, a. [Compar. Fitter; superl. Fittest.] Etym: [OE. fit, fyt; cf.
E. feat neat, elegant, well made, or icel. fitja to web, knit, OD.
vitten to suit, square, Goth. f to adorn.

1. Adapted to an end, object, or design; suitable by nature or by
art; suited by character, qualitties, circumstances, education, etc.;
qualified; competent; worthy.
That which ordinary men are fit for, I am qualified in. Shak.
Fit audience find, though few. Milton.

2. Prepared; ready. [Obs.]
So fit to shoot, she singled forth among her foes who first her
quarry's strength should feel. Fairfax.

3. Conformed to a standart of duty, properiety, or taste; convenient;
meet; becoming; proper.
Is it fit to say a king, Thou art wicked Job xxxiv. 18.

Syn.
 -- Suitable; proper; appropriate; meet; becoming; expedient;
congruous; correspondent; apposite; apt; adapted; prepared;
qualified; competent; adequate.

FIT
Fit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Fitting.]

1. To make fit or suitable; to adapt to the purpose intended; to
qualify; to put into a condition of readiness or preparation.
The time is fitted for the duty. Burke.
The very situation for which he was peculiarly fitted by nature.
Macaulay.

2. To bring to a required form and size; to shape aright; to adapt to
a model; to adjust; -- said especially of the work of a carpenter,
machinist, tailor, etc.
The carpenter . . . marketh it out with a line; he fitteth it with
planes. Is. xliv. 13.

3. To supply with something that is suitable or fit, or that is
shaped and adjusted to the use required.
No milliner can so fit his customers with gloves. Shak.

4. To be suitable to; to answer the requirements of; to be correctly
shaped and adjusted to; as, if the coat fits you, put it on.
That's a bountiful answer that fits all questions. Shak.
That time best fits the work. Shak.
To fit out, to supply with necessaries or means; to furnish; to
equip; as, to fit out a privateer.
 -- To fit up, to firnish with things suitable; to make proper for
the reception or use of any person; to prepare; as, to fit up a room
for a guest.

FIT
Fit, v. i.

1. To be proper or becoming.
Nor fits it to prolong the feast. Pope.

2. To be adjusted to a particular shape or size; to suit; to be
adapted; as, his coat fits very well.

FIT
Fit, n.

1. The quality of being fit; adjustment; adaptedness; as of dress to
the person of the wearer.

2. (Mach.)
(a) The coincidence of parts that come in contact.
(b) The part of an object upon which anything fits tightly. Fit rod
(Shipbuilding), a gauge rod used to try the depth of a bolt hole in
order to determine the length of the bolt required. Knight.

FIT
Fit, n. Etym: [AS. fit strife, fight; of uncertain origin. sq. root
77.]

1. A stroke or blow. [Obs. or R.]
Curse on that cross, quoth then the Sarazin, That keeps thy body from
the bitter fit. Spenser.

2. A sudden and violent attack of a disorder; a stroke of disease, as
of epilepsy or apoplexy, which produces convulsions or
unconsciousness; a convulsion; a paroxysm; hence, a period of
exacerbation of a disease; in general, an attack of disease; as, a
fit of sickness.
And when the fit was on him, I did mark How he did shake. Shak.

3. A mood of any kind which masters or possesses one for a time; a
temporary, absorbing affection; a paroxysm; as, a fit melancholy, of
passion, or of laughter.
All fits of pleasure we balanced by an equal degree of pain. Swift.
The English, however, were on this subject prone to fits of
jealously. Macaulay.

4. A passing humor; a caprice; a sudden and unusual effort, activity,
or motion, followed by relaxation or insction; an impulse and
irregular action.
The fits of the season. Shak.

5. A darting point; a sudden emission. [R.]
A tongue of light, a fit of flame. Coleridge.
By fits, By fits and starts, by intervals of action and re

FITCH
Fitch (; 224), n.; pl. Fitches. Etym: [See Vetch.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A vetch. [Obs.]

2. pl. (Bot.)

Defn: A word found in the Authorized Version of the Bible,
representing different Hebrew originals. In Isaiah xxviii. 25, 27, it
means the black aromatic seeds of Nigella sativa, still used as a
flavoring in the East. In Ezekiel iv. 9, the Revised Version now
reads spelt.

FITCH
Fitch, n. Etym: [Contr. of fitched.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European polecat; also, its fur.

FITCHE
Fitch"é, a. Etym: [Cf. F. fiché, lit. p.p. of ficher to fasten, OF.
fichier to pierce. Cf. 1st Fish.] (Her.)

Defn: Sharpened to a point; pointed. Cross fitché, a cross having the
lower arm pointed.

FITCHED
Fitched, a. (her.)

Defn: Fitché. [Also fiched.]

FITCHET; FITCHEW
Fitch"et, Fitch"ew, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. fisseau, fissel, OD. fisse,
visse, vitsche, D. vies nasty, loathsome, E. fizz.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European polecat (Putorius foetidus). See Polecat.

FITCHY
Fitch"y, a.

Defn: Having fitches or vetches.

FITCHY
Fitch"y, a. Etym: [See Fitché.] (Her.)

Defn: Fitché.

FITFUL
Fit"ful, a. Etym: [From 7th Fit.]

Defn: Full of fits; irregularly variable; impulsive and unstable.
After life's fitful fever, he sleeps well. Shak.
-- Fit"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Fit"ful*ness, n.
The victorius trumpet peal Dies fitfully away. Macaulay.

FITHEL; FITHUL
Fith"el, Fith"ul, n. Etym: [OE. See Fiddle.]

Defn: A fiddle [Obs.] Chaucer.

FITLY
Fit"ly, adv.

Defn: In a fit manner; suitably; properly; conveniently; as, a maxim
fitly applied.

FITMENT
Fit"ment, n.

Defn: The act of fitting; that which is proper or becoming;
equipment. [Obs.] Shak.

FITNESS
Fit"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being fit; as, the fitness of measures
or laws; a person's fitness for office.

FITT
Fitt, n.

Defn: See 2d Fit.

FITTABLE
Fit"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Suitable; fit. [Obs.] Sherwood.

FITTEDNESS
Fit"ted*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being fitted; adaptation. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

FITTER
Fit"ter, n.

1. One who fits or makes to fit; esp.: (a) One who tries on, and
adjusts, articles of dress. (b) One who fits or adjusts the different
parts of machinery to each other.

2. A coal broker who conducts the sales between the owner of a coal
pit and the shipper. [Eng.] Simmonds.

FITTER
Fit"ter, n.

Defn: A little piece; a flitter; a flinder. [Obs.]
Where's the Frenchman Alas, he's all fitters. Beau. & Fl.

FITTING
Fit"ting, n.

Defn: Anything used in fitting up; especially (pl.),

Defn: necessary fixtures or apparatus; as, the fittings of a church
or study; gas fittings.

FITTING
Fit"ting, a.

Defn: Fit; appropriate; suitable; proper.
 -- Fit"ting*ly, adv.
 -- Fit"ting*ness, n. Jer. Taylor.

FITWEED
Fit"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Eryngium foetidum) supposed to be a remedy for fits.

FITZ
Fitz, n. Etym: [OF. fils, filz, fiz, son, F. fils, L. filius. See
Filial.]

Defn: A son; -- used in compound names, to indicate paternity, esp.
of the illegitimate sons of kings and princes of the blood; as,
Fitzroy, the son of the king; Fitzclarence, the son of the duke of
Clarence.

FIVE
Five, a. Etym: [OE. fif, five, AS. fif, fife; akin to D. vijf, OS.
fif, OHG. finf, funf, G. fünf, Icel. fimm, Sw. & Sw. Dan. fem, Goth.
fimf, Lith. penki, W. pump, OIr. cóic, L. quinque, Gr. pa. Fifth,
Cinque, Pentagon, Punch the drink, Quinary.]

Defn: Four and one added; one more than four.

Five nations (Ethnol.), a confederacy of the Huron-Iroquois Indians,
consisting of five tribes: Mohawks, Onondagas, Cayugas, Oneidas, and
Senecas. They inhabited the region which is now the State of new
York.

FIVE
Five, n.

1. The number next greater than four, and less than six; five units
or objects.
Five of them were wise, and five were foolish. Matt. xxv. 2.

2. A symbol representing this number, as 5, or V.

FIVE-FINGER
Five"-fin`ger, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: See Cinquefoil.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A starfish with five rays, esp. Asterias rubens.

FIVEFOLD
Five"fold`, a. & adv.

Defn: In fives; consisting of five in one; five repeated; quintuple.

FIVE-LEAF
Five"-leaf`, n.

Defn: Cinquefoil; five-finger.

FIVE-LEAFED; FIVE-LEAVED
Five"-leafed`, Five"-leaved`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having five leaflets, as the Virginia creeper.

FIVELING
Five"ling, n. (Min.)

Defn: A compound or twin crystal consisting of five individuals.

FIVES
Fives, n. pl.

Defn: A kind of play with a ball against a wall, resembling tennis; -
- so named because three fives, or fifteen, are counted to the game.
Smart. Fives court, a place for playing fives.

FIVES
Fives, n. Etym: [See Vives.]

Defn: A disease of the glands under the ear in horses; the vives.
Shak.

FIVE-TWENTIES
Five`-twen"ties, n. pl.

Defn: Five-twenty bonds of the United States (bearing six per cent
interest), issued in 1862, '64, and '65, redeemable after five and
payable in twenty years.

FIX
Fix, a. Etym: [OE., fr. L. fixus, p.p. of figere to fix; cf. F.
fixe.]

Defn: Fixed; solidified. [Obs.] Chaucer.

FIX
Fix, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fixed; p. pr. & vb. n. Fixing.] Etym: [Cf.
F. fixer.]

1. To make firm, stable, or fast; to set or place permanently; to
fasten immovably; to establish; to implant; to secure; to make
efinite.
An ass's nole I fixed on his head. Shak.
O, fix thy chair of grace, that all my powers May also fix their
reverence. Herbert.
His heart is fixed, trusting in the Lord. Ps. cxii. 7.
And fix far deeper in his head their stings. Milton.

2. To hold steadily; to direct unwaveringly; to fasten, as the eye on
an object, the attention on a speaker.
Sat fixed in thought the mighty Stagirite. Pope.
One eye on death, and one full fix'd on heaven. Young.

3. To transfix; to pierce. [Obs.] Sandys.

4. (Photog.)

Defn: To render (an impression) permanent by treating with such
applications a will make it insensible to the action of light. Abney.

5. To put in prder; to arrange; to dispose of; to adjust; to set to
rights; to set or place in the manner desired or most suitable;
hence, to repair; as, to fix the clothes; to fix the furniture of a
room. [Colloq. U.S.]

6. (Iron Manuf.)

Defn: To line the hearth of (a puddling furnace) with fettling.

Syn.
 -- To arrange; prepare; adjust; place; establis; settle; determine.

FIX
Fix, v. i.

1. To become fixed; to settle or remain permanently; to cease from
wandering; to rest.
Your kindness banishes your fear, Resolved to fix forever here.
Waller.

2. To become firm, so as to resist volatilization; to cease to flow
or be fluid; to congeal; to become hard and malleable, as a metallic
substance. Bacon. To fix on, to settle the opinion or resolution
about; to determine regarding; as, the contracting parties have fixed
on certain leading points.

FIX
Fix, n.

1. A position of difficulty or embarassment; predicament; dillema.
[Colloq.]
Is he not living, then No. is he dead, then No, nor dead either. Poor
Aroar can not live, and can not die, -- so that he is in an almighty
fix. De Quincey.

2. (Iron Manuf.)

Defn: fettling. [U.S.]

FIXABLE
Fix"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being fixed.

FIXATION
Fix*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fixation.]

1. The act of fixing, or the state of being fixed.
An unalterable fixation of resolution. Killingbeck.
To light, created in the first day, God gave no proper place or
fixation. Sir W. Raleigh.
Marked stiffness or absolute fixation of a joint. Quain.
A fixation and confinement of thought to a few objects. Watts.

2. The act of uniting chemically with a solid substance or in a solid
form; reduction to a non-volatile condition; -- said of gaseous
elements.

3. The act or process of ceasing to be fluid and becoming firm.
Glanvill.

4. A state of resistance to evaporation or volatilization by heat; --
said of metals. Bacon.

FIXATIVE
Fix"a*tive, n.

Defn: That which serves to set or fix colors or drawings, as a
mordant.

FIXED
Fixed, a.

1. Securely placed or fastened; settled; established; firm; imovable;
unalterable.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Stable; non-volatile. Fixed air (Old Chem.), carbonic acid or
carbon dioxide; -- so called by Dr. Black because it can be absorbed
or fixed by strong bases. See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.
 -- Fixed alkali (Old Chem.), a non-volatile base, as soda, or
potash, in distinction from the volatile alkali ammonia.
 -- Fixed ammunition (Mil.), a projectile and powder inclosed
together in a case ready for loading.
 -- Fixed battery (Mil.), a battery which contains heavy guns and
mortars intended to remain stationary; -- distinguished from movable
battery.
 -- Fixed bodies, those which can not be volatilized or separated by
a common menstruum, without great difficulty, as gold, platinum,
lime, etc.
 -- Fixed capital. See the Note under Capital, n., 4.
 -- Fixed fact, a well established fact. [Colloq.] -- Fixed light,
one which emits constant beams; -- distinguished from a flashing,
revolving, or intermittent light.
 -- Fixed oils (Chem.), non-volatile, oily substances, as stearine
and olein, which leave a permanent greasy stain, and which can not be
distilled unchanged; -- distinguished from volatile or essential
oils.
 -- Fixed pivot (Mil.), the fixed point about which any line of
troops wheels.
 -- Fixed stars (Astron.), such stars as always retain nearly the
same apparent position and distance with respect to each other, thus
distinguished from planets and comets.

FIXEDLY
Fix"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a fixed, stable, or constant manner.

FIXEDNESS
Fix"ed*ness, n.

1. The state or quality of being fixed; stability; steadfastness.

2. The quality of a body which resists evaporation or volatilization
by heat; solidity; cohesion of parts; as, the fixedness of gold.

FIXIDITY
Fix*id"i*ty, n.

Defn: Fixedness. [Obs.] Boyle.

FIXING
Fix"ing, n.

1. The act or process of making fixed.

2. That which is fixed; a fixture.

3. pl.

Defn: Arrangements; embellishments; trimmings; accompaniments.
[Colloq. U.S.]

FIXITY
Fix"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fixité.]

1. Fixedness; as, fixity of tenure; also, that which is fixed.

2. Coherence of parts. Sir I. Newton.

FIXTURE
Fix"ture, n. Etym: [Cf. Fixture.]

1. That which is fixed or attached to something as a permanent
appendage; as, the fixtures of a pump; the fixtures of a farm or of a
dwelling, that is, the articles which a tenant may not take away.

2. State of being fixed; fixedness.
The firm fixture of thy foot. Shak.

3. (Law)

Defn: Anything of an accessory character annexed to houses and lands,
so as to constitute a part of them. This term is, however, quite
frequently used in the peculiar sense of personal chattels annexed to
lands and tenements, but removable by the person annexing them, or
his personal representatives. In this latter sense, the same things
may be fixtures under some circumstances, and not fixtures under
others. Wharton (Law Dict. ). Bouvier.

Note: This word is frequently substituted for fixure (formerly the
word in common use) in new editions of old works.

FIXURE
Fix"ure, n. Etym: [L. fixura a fastening, fr. figere to fix. See Fix,
and cf. Fixture.]

Defn: Fixed position; stable condition; firmness. [Obs.] Shak.

FIZGIG
Fiz"gig`, n.

Defn: A fishing spear. [Obs.] Sandys.

FIZGIG
Fiz"gig`, n. Etym: [Fizz + gig whirling thing.]

Defn: A firework, made of damp powder, which makes a fizzing or
hissing noise when it explodes.

FIZGIG
Fiz"gig`, n. Etym: [See Gig a flirt.]

Defn: A gadding, flirting girl. Gosson.

FIZZ
Fizz, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Fizzed; p. pr. & vb. n. Fizzing.] Etym:
[Cf. Icel. fisa to break wind, Dan. fise to foist, fizzle, OSw. fisa,
G. fisten, feisten. Cf. Foist.]

Defn: To make a hissing sound, as a burning fuse.

FIZZ
Fizz, n.

Defn: A hising sound; as, the fizz of a fly.

FIZZLE
Fiz"zle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Fizzled; p. pr. & vb. n. Fizzling.]
Etym: [See Fizz.]

1. To make a hissing sound.
It is the easfizzling. B. Jonson.

2. To make a ridiculous failure in an undertaking. [Colloq. or Low]
To fizzle out, to burn with a hissing noise and then go out, like wet
gunpowder; hence, to fail completely and ridicuously; to prove a
failure. [Colloq.]

FIZZLE
Fiz"zle, n.

Defn: A failure or abortive effort. [Colloq.]

FJORD
Fjord, n.

Defn: See Fiord.

FLABBERGAST
Flab"ber*gast, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Flap, and Aghast.]

Defn: To astonish; to strike with wonder, esp. by extraordinary
statements. [Jocular] Beaconsfield.

FLABBERGASTATION
Flab`ber*gas*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The state of being flabbergasted. [Jocular] London Punch.

FLABBILY
Flab"bi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a flabby manner.

FLABBINESS
Flab"bi*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being flabby.

FLABBY
Flab"by, a. Etym: [See Flap.]

Defn: Yielding to the touch, and easily moved or shaken; hanging
loose by its own weight; wanting firmness; flaccid; as, flabby flesh.

FLABEL
Fla"bel, n. Etym: [L. flabellum a fan, dim. of flabrum a breeze, fr.
flare to blow.]

Defn: A fan. [Obs.] Huloet.

FLABELLATE
Fla*bel"late, a. Etym: [L. flabellatus, p.p. of flabellare to fan,
fr. flabellum. See Flabbel.] (Bot.)

Defn: Flabelliform.

FLABELLATION
Flab`el*la"tion, n.

Defn: The act of keeping fractured limbs cool by the use of a fan or
some other contrivance. Dunglison.

FLABELLIFORM
Fla*bel"li*form, a. Etym: [L. flabellum a fan + -fform: cf. F.
flabeliforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a fan; fan-shaped; flabellate.

FLABELLINERVED
Fla*bel"li*nerved`, a. Etym: [L. flabellum a fan + E. nerve.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having many nerves diverging radiately from the base; -- said
of a leaf.

FLABELLUM
Fla*bel"lum, n. Etym: [L. See Flabel.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A fan; especially, the fan carried before the pope on state
occasions, made in ostrich and peacock feathers. Shipley.

FLABILE
Flab"ile, a. Etym: [L. flabilis.]

Defn: Liable to be blown about. Bailey.

FLACCID
Flac"cid, a. Etym: [L. flaccidus, fr. flaccus flabby: cf. OF.
flaccide.]

Defn: Yielding to pressure for want of firmness and stiffness; soft
and weak; limber; lax; drooping; flabby; as, a flaccid muscle;
flaccid flesh.
Religious profession . . . has become flacced. I. Taylor.
-- Flac"cid*ly, adv.
 -- Flac"cid*ness, n.

FLACCIDITY
Flac*cid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. flaccidité.]

Defn: The state of being flaccid.

FLACHERIE
Flache`rie" (flash`re"), n. [F.]

Defn: A bacterial disease of silkworms, supposed to be due to eating
contaminated mulberry leaves.

FLACKER
Flack"er, v. i. Etym: [OE. flakeren, fr. flacken to move quickly to
and fro; cf. icel. flakka to rove about, AS. flacor fluttering,
flying, G. flackern to flare, flicker.]

Defn: To flutter, as a bird. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.

FLACKET
Flack"et, n. Etym: [OF. flasquet little flask, dim. of flasque a
flask.]

Defn: A barrel-shaped bottle; a flagon.

FLACON
Fla"con (fla"kôn), n. [F. See Flagon.]

Defn: A small glass bottle; as, a flacon for perfume. "Two glass
flacons for the ink." Longfellow.

FLAG
Flag, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Flagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Flagging.] Etym:
[Cf. Icel. flaka to droop, hang loosely. Cf. Flacker, Flag an
ensign.]

1. To hang loose without stiffness; to bend down, as flexible bodies;
to be loose, yielding, limp.
As loose it [the sail] flagged around the mast. T. Moore.

2. To droop; to grow spiritless; to lose vigor; to languish; as, the
spirits flag; the streugth flags.
The pleasures of the town begin to flag. Swift.

Syn.
 -- To droop; decline; fail; languish; pine.

FLAG
Flag, v. t.

1. To let droop; to suffer to fall, or let fall, into feebleness; as,
to flag the wings. prior.

2. To enervate; to exhaust the vigor or elasticity of.
Nothing so flags the spirits. Echard.

FLAG
Flag, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. & G. flagge, Sw. flagg, Dan. flag, D. vlag.
See Flag to hang loose.]

1. That which flags or hangs down loosely.

2. A cloth usually bearing a device or devices and used to indicate
nationality, party, etc., or to give or ask information; -- commonly
attached to a staff to be waved by the wind; a standard; a banner; an
ensign; the colors; as, the national flag; a military or a naval
flag.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A group of feathers on the lower part of the legs of certain
hawks, owls, etc.
(b) A group of elongated wing feathers in certain hawks.
(c) The bushy tail of a dog, as of a setter. Black flag. See under
Black.
 -- Flag captain, Flag leutenant, etc., special officers attached to
the flagship, as aids to the flag officer.
 -- Flag officer, the commander of a fleet or squadron; an admiral,
or commodore.
 -- Flag of truse, a white flag carried or displayed to an enemy, as
an invitation to conference, or for the purpose of making some
communication not hostile.
 -- Flag share, the flag officer's share of prize money.
 -- Flag station (Railroad), a station at which trains do not stop
unless signaled to do so, by a flag hung out or waved.
 -- National flag, a flag of a particular country, on which some
national emblem or device, is emblazoned.
 -- Red flag, a flag of a red color, displayed as a signal of danger
or token of defiance; the emblem of anarchists.
 -- To dip, the flag, to mlower it and quickly restore it to its
place; -- done as a mark of respect.
 -- To hang out the white flag, to ask truce or quarter, or, in some
cases, to manifest a friendly design by exhibiting a white flag.
 -- To hang the flag half-mast high or half-staff, to raise it only
half way to the mast or staff, as a token or sign of mourning.
 -- To strike, or lower, the flag, to haul it down, in token of
respect, submission, or, in an engagement, of surrender.
 -- Yellow flag, the quarantine flag of all nations; also carried at
a vessel's fore, to denote that an infectious disease is on board.

FLAG
Flag, v. t. Etym: [From Flag an ensign.]

1. To signal to with a flag; as, to flag a train.

2. To convey, as a message, by means of flag signals; as, to flag an
order to troops or vessels at a distance.

FLAG
Flag, n. Etym: [From Flag to hang loose, to bend down.] (Bot.)

Defn: An aquatic plant, with long, ensiform leaves, belonging to
either of the genera Iris and Acorus. Cooper's flag, the cat-tail
(Typha latifolia), the long leaves of which are placed between the
staves of barrels to make the latter water-tight.
 -- Corn flag. See under 2d Corn.
 -- Flag broom, a coarse of broom, originally made of flags or
rushes.
 -- Flag root, the root of the sweet flag.
 -- Sweet flag. See Calamus, n., 2.

FLAG
Flag, v. t.

Defn: To furnish or deck out with flags.

FLAG
Flag, n. Etym: [Icel. flaga, cf. Icel. flag spot where a turf has
been cut out, and E. flake layer, scale. Cf. Floe.]

1. A flat stone used for paving. Woodward.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Any hard, evenly stratified sandstone, which splits into layers
suitable for flagstones.

FLAG
Flag, v. t.

Defn: To lay with flags of flat stones.
The sides and floor are all flagged with . . . marble. Sandys.

FLAGELLANT
Flag"el*lant, n. Etym: [L. flagellans, p.p. of flagellare: cf.F.
flagellant. See Flagellate.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a fanatical sect which flourished in Europe in the 13th
and 14th centuries, and maintained that flagellation was of equal
virtue with baptism and the sacrament; -- called also disciplinant.

FLAGELLATA
Flag`el*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr.L. flagellatus, p. p. See
Flagellate, v. t.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Infusoria, having one or two long, whiplike cilia,
at the anterior end. It includes monads. See Infusoria, and Monad.

FLAGELLATE
Flag"el*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flagellated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Flagellating.] Etym: [L. flagellatus, p.p. of flagellare to scoure,
fr. flagellum whip, dim. of flagrum whip, scoure; cf. fligere to
strike. Cf. Flall.]

Defn: To whip; to scourge; to flog.

FLAGELLATE
Fla*gel"late, a.

1. Flagelliform.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Flagellata.

FLAGELLATION
Flag`el*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. flagellatio: cf. F. flagellation.]

Defn: A beating or flogging; a whipping; a scourging. Garth.

FLAGELLATOR
Flag"el*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who practices flagellation; one who whips or scourges.

FLAGELLIFORM
Fla*gel"li*form, a. Etym: [L. flagellum a whip + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a whiplash; long, slender, round, flexible, and
(comming) tapering.

FLAGELLUM
Fla*gel"lum, n.; pl. E. Flagellums, L. Flagella. Etym: [L., a whip.
See Flagellate, v. t.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A young, flexible shoot of a plant; esp., the long trailing
branch of a vine, or a slender branch in certain mosses.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A long, whiplike cilium. See Flagellata.
(b) An appendage of the reproductive apparatus of the snail.
(c) A lashlike appendage of a crustacean, esp. the terminal ortion of
the antennæ and the epipodite of the maxilipeds. See Maxilliped.

FLAGEOLET
Flag"eo*let`, n. Etym: [F. flageolet, dim. of OF. flaj (as if fr. a
LL. flautio;us), of flaüte, flahute, F. fl. See Flute.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small wooden pipe, having six or more holes, and a mouthpiece
inserted at one end. It produces a shrill sound, softer than of the
piccolo flute, and is said to have superseded the old recorder.
Flageolet tones (Mus.), the naturel harmonics or overtones of
stringed instruments.

FLAGGINESS
Flag"gi*ness, n.

Defn: The condition of being flaggy; laxity; limberness. Johnson.

FLAGGING
Flag"ging, n.

Defn: A pavement or sidewalk of flagstones; flagstones, collectively.

FLAGGING
Flag"ging, a.

Defn: Growing languid, weak, or spiritless; weakening; delaying.
 -- Flag"ging*ly, adv.

FLAGGY
Flag"gy, a.

1. Weak; flexible; limber. "Flaggy wings." Spenser.

2. Tasteless; insipid; as, a flaggy apple. [Obs.] Bacon.

FLAGGY
Flag"gy, a. Etym: [From 5th Flag.]

Defn: Abounding with the plant called flag; as, a flaggy marsh.

FLAGITATE
Flag"i*tate, v. t. Etym: [L. flagitatus, p.p. of flagitare to demand.
See Flagitious.]

Defn: To importune; to demand fiercely or with passion. [Archaic]
Carcyle.

FLAGITATION
Flag`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. flagitatio.]

Defn: Importunity; urgent demand. [Archaic] Carlyle.

FLAGITIOUS
Fla*gi"tious, a. Etym: [L. flagitiosus, fr. flagitium a shameful or
disgraceful act, orig., a burning desire, heat of passion, from
flagitare to demand hotly, fiercely; cf. flagrare to burn, E.
flagrant.]

1. Disgracefully or shamefully criminal; grossly wicked; scandalous;
shameful; -- said of acts, crimes, etc.
Debauched principles and flagitious practices. I. Taylor.

2. Guilty of enormous crimes; corrupt; profligate; -- said of
persons. Pope.

3. Characterized by scandalous crimes or vices; as, flagitious times.
Pope.

Syn.
 -- Atrocious; villainous; flagrant; heinous; corrupt; profligate;
abandoned. See Atracious.
 -- Fla*gi"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Fla*gi"tious*ness, n.
A sentence so flagitiously unjust. Macaulay.

FLAGMAN
Flag"man, n.; pl. Flagmen (.

Defn: One who makes signals with a flag.

FLAGON
Flag"on, n. Etym: [F. flacon, for flascon, fr. OF. flasche, from LL.
flasco. See Flask.]

Defn: A vessel with a narrow mouth, used for holding and conveying
liquors. It is generally larger than a bottle, and of leather or
stoneware rather than of glass.
A trencher of mutton chops, and a flagon of ale. Macaulay.

FLAGRANCE
Fla"grance, n.

Defn: Flagrancy. Bp. Hall.

FLAGRANCY
Fla"gran*cy, n.; pl. Flagrancies. Etym: [L. flagrantia a burning. See
Flagrant.]

1. A burning; great heat; inflammation. [Obs.]
Lust causeth a flagrancy in the eyes. Bacon.

2. The condition or quality of being flagrant; atrocity;
heiniousness; enormity; excess. Steele.

FLAGRANT
Fla"grant, a. Etym: [L. flagrans, -antis, p.pr. of flagrate to burn,
akin to Gr. flagrant. Cf. Flame, Phlox.]

1. Flaming; inflamed; glowing; burning; ardent.
The beadle's lash still flagrant on their back. Prior.
A young man yet flagrant from the lash of the executioner or the
beadle. De Quincey.
Flagrant desires and affections. Hooker.

2. Actually in preparation, execution, or performance; carried on
hotly; raging.
A war the most powerful of the native tribes was flagrant. Palfrey.

3. Flaming into notice; notorious; enormous; heinous; glaringly
wicked.

Syn.
 -- Atrocious; flagitious; glaring. See Atrocious.

FLAGRANTLY
Fla"grant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a flagrant manner.

FLAGRATE
Fla"grate, v. t. Etym: [L. flagrare, flagratum, v.i. & t., to burn.]

Defn: To burn. [Obs.] Greenhill.

FLAGRATION
Fla*gra"tion, n.

Defn: A conflagration. [Obs.]

FLAGSHIP
Flag"ship`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The vessel which carries the commanding officer of a fleet or
squadron and flies his distinctive flag or pennant.

FLAGSTAFF
Flag"staff`, n.; pl. -staves ( or -staffs (.

Defn: A staff on which a flag is hoisted.

FLAGSTONE
Flag"stone`, n.

Defn: A flat stone used in paving, or any rock which will split into
such stones. See Flag, a stone.

FLAGWORM
Flag"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A worm or grub found among flags and sedge.

FLAIL
Flail, n. Etym: [L. flagellum whip, scourge, in LL., a threshing
flail: cf. OF. flael, flaiel, F. fléau. See Flagellum.]

1. An instrument for threshing or beating grain from the ear by hand,
consisting of a wooden staff or handle, at the end of which a stouter
and shorter pole or club, called a swipe, is so hung as to swing
freely.
His shadowy flail hath threshed the corn. Milton.

2. An ancient military weapon, like the common flail, often having
the striking part armed with rows of spikes, or loaded. Fairholt.
No citizen thought himself safe unless he carried under his coat a
small flail, loaded with lead, to brain the Popish assassins.
Macaulay.

FLAILY
Flail"y, a.

Defn: Acting like a flail. [Obs.] Vicars.

FLAIN
Flain, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Flay. Chaucer.

FLAIR
Flair (flâr), n. [OE. flaireodor, fr. OF. & F. flair, fr. OF.
flairier, F. flairer, to smell, LL. flagrare for L. fragrare. See
Flagrant.]

1. Smell; odor. [Obs.]

2.  Sense of smell; scent; fig., discriminating sense.

FLAKE
Flake, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. flaki, fleki, Dan. flage, D. vlaak.]

1. A paling; a hurdle. [prov. Eng.]

2. A platform of hurdles, or small sticks made fast or interwoven,
supported by stanchions, for drying codfish and other things.
You shall also, after they be ripe, neither suffer them to have straw
nor fern under them, but lay them either upon some smooth table,
boards, or flakes of wands, and they will last the longer. English
Husbandman.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A small stage hung over a vessel's side, for workmen to stand
on in calking, etc.

FLAKE
Flake, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. flakna to flake off, split, flagna to
flake off, Sw. flaga flaw, flake, flake plate, Dan. flage snowflake.
Cf. Flag a flat stone.]

1. A loose filmy mass or a thin chiplike layer of anything; a film;
flock; lamina; layer; scale; as, a flake of snow, tallow, or fish.
"Lottle flakes of scurf." Addison.
Great flakes of ice encompassing our boat. Evelyn.

2. A little particle of lighted or incandescent matter, darted from a
fire; a flash.
With flakes of ruddy fire. Somerville.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A sort of carnation with only two colors in the flower, the
petals having large stripes. Flake knife (Archæol.), a cutting
instrument used by savage tribes, made of a flake or chip of hard
stone. Tylor.
 -- Flake stand, the cooling tub or vessel of a still worm. Knight.
 -- Flake white. (Paint.) (a) The purest white lead, in the form of
flakes or scales. (b) The trisnitrate of bismuth. Ure.

FLAKE
Flake, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Flaking.]

Defn: To form into flakes. Pope.

FLAKE
Flake, v. i.

Defn: To separate in flakes; to peel or scale off.

FLAKINESS
Flak"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being flaky.

FLAKY
Flak"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, or
cleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike.
What showers of mortal hail, what flaky fires! Watts.
A flaky weight of winter's purest snows. Wordsworth.

FLAM
Flam, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. fleám, fl, floght. sq. root 84 . Cf.
Flimflam.]

Defn: A freak or whim; also, a falsehood; a lie; an illusory pretext;
deception; delusion. [Obs.]
A perpetual abuse and flam upon posterity. South.

FLAM
Flam, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flammed ; p. pr. & vb. n. Flamming.]

Defn: To deceive with a falsehood. [Obs.]
God is not to be flammed off with lies. South.

FLAMBE
Flam`bé", a. [F., p.p. of flamber to singe, pass (a thing) through
flame. Cf. Flambeau.] (Ceramics)

Defn: Decorated by glaze splashed or irregularly spread upon the
surface, or apparently applied at the top and allowed to run down the
sides; -- said of pieces of Chinese porcelain.

FLAMBEAU
Flam"beau; n.; pl. Flambeaux or Flambeaus. Etym: [F., fr. OF. flambe
flame, for flamble, from L. flammula a little flame, dim. of flamma
flame. See Flame.]

Defn: A flaming torch, esp. one made by combining together a number
of thick wicks invested with a quick-burning substance (anciently,
perhaps, wax; in modern times, pitch or the like); hence, any torch.

FLAMBOYANT
Flam*boy"ant, a. Etym: [F.] (Arch.)

Defn: Characterized by waving or flamelike curves, as in the tracery
of windows, etc.; -- said of the later (15th century) French Gothic
style.

FLAMBOYER
Flam*boy"er, n. Etym: [F. flamboyer to be bright.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name given in the East and West Indies to certain trees with
brilliant blossoms, probably species of Cæsalpinia.

FLAME
Flame, n. Etym: [OE. flame, flaume, flaumbe, OF. flame, flambe, F.
flamme, fr. L. flamma, fr. flamma, fr. flagrare to burn. See
Flagrant, and cf. Flamneau, Flamingo.]

1. A stream of burning vapor or gas, emitting light and heat; darting
or streaming fire; a blaze; a fire.

2. Burning zeal or passion; elevated and noble enthusiasm; glowing
imagination; passionate excitement or anger. "In a flame of zeal
severe." Milton.
Where flames refin'd in breasts seraphic glow. Pope.
Smit with the love of sister arts we came, And met congenial,
mingling flame with flame. Pope.

3. Ardor of affection; the passion of love. Coleridge.

4. A person beloved; a sweetheart. Thackeray.

Syn.
 -- Blaze; brightness; ardor. See Blaze. Flame bridge, a bridge wall.
See Bridge, n., 5.
 -- Flame color, brilliant orange or yellow. B. Jonson.
 -- Flame engine, an early name for the gas engine.
 -- Flame manometer, an instrument, invented by Koenig, to obtain
graphic representation of the action of the human vocal organs. See
Manometer.
 -- Flame reaction (Chem.), a method of testing for the presence of
certain elements by the characteristic color imparted to a flame; as,
sodium colors a flame yellow, potassium violet, lithium crimson,
boracic acid green, etc. Cf. Spectrum analysis, under Spectrum.
 -- Flame tree (Bot.), a tree with showy scarlet flowers, as the
Rhododendron arboreum in India, and the Brachychiton acerifolium of
Australia.

FLAME
Flame, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Flamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Flaming.] Etym:
[OE. flamen, flaumben, F. flamber, OF. also, flamer. See Flame, n.]

1. To burn with a flame or blaze; to burn as gas emitted from bodies
in combustion; to blaze.
The main blaze of it is past, but a small thing would make it flame
again. Shak.

2. To burst forth like flame; to break out in violence of passion; to
be kindled with zeal or ardor.
He flamed with indignation. Macaulay.

FLAME
Flame, v. t.

Defn: To kindle; to inflame; to excite.
And flamed with zeal of vengeance inwardly. Spenser.

FLAME-COLORED
Flame"-col`ored, a.

Defn: Of the color of flame; of a bright orange yellow color. Shak.

FLAMELESS
Flame"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of flame. Sandys.

FLAMELET
Flame"let, n. Etym: [Flame + -let.]

Defn: A small flame.
The flamelets gleamed and flickered. Longfellow.

FLAMEN
Fla"men, n.; pl. E. Flammens, L. Flamines. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A priest devoted to the service of a particular god, from whom
he received a distinguishing epithet. The most honored were those of
Jupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, called respectively Flamen Dialis,
Flamen Martialis, and Flamen Quirinalis.
Affrights the flamens at their service quaint. Milton.

FLAMINEOUS
Fla*min"e*ous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a flamen; flaminical.

FLAMING
Flam"ing, a.

1. Emitting flames; afire; blazing; consuming; illuminating.

2. Of the color of flame; high-colored; brilliant; dazzling. "In
flaming yellow bright." Prior.

3. Ardent; passionate; burning with zeal; irrepressibly earnest; as,
a flaming proclomation or harangue.

FLAMINGLY
Flam"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a flaming manner.

FLAMINGO
Fla*min"go, n.; pl. Flamingoes. Etym: [Sp. flamenco, cf. Pg.
flamingo, Prov. flammant, F. flamant; prop. a p.pr. meaning flaming.
So called in allusion to its color. See Flame.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Phoenicopterus. The flamingoes have
webbed feet, very long legs, and a beak bent down as if broken. Their
color is usually red or pink. The American flamingo is P. ruber; the
European is P. antiquorum.

FLAMINICAL
Fla*min"i*cal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a flamen. Milton.

FLAMMABILITY
Flam`ma*bil"ity, n.

Defn: The quality of being flammable; inflammability. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

FLAMMABLE
Flam"ma*ble, a.

Defn: Inflammable. [Obs.]

FLAMMATION
Flam*ma"tion, n.

Defn: The act of setting in a flame or blaze. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne.

FLAMMEOUS
Flam"me*ous, a. Etym: [L. flammeus from flamma flame.]

Defn: Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, flame. [Obs.] Sir
T. Browne.

FLAMMIFEROUS
Flam*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. flammifer; flamma flame + ferre to
bear.]

Defn: Producing flame.

FLAMMIVOMOUS
Flam*miv"o*mous, a. Etym: [L. flammivomus; flamma flame + vomere to
vomit.]

Defn: Vomiting flames, as a volcano. W. Thompson. (1745).

FLAMMULATED
Flam"mu*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. flammula little flame, dim. fr. flamma
flame.]

Defn: Of a reddish color.

FLAMY
Flam"y, a. Etym: [From Flame.]

Defn: Flaming; blazing; flamelike; flame-colored; composed of flame.
Pope.

FLANCH
Flanch, n.; pl. Flanches. Etym: [Prov. E., a projection, OF. flanche
flank. See Flank.]

1. A flange. [R.]. (Her.)

Defn: A bearing consisting of a segment of a circle encroaching on
the field from the side.

Note: Flanches are always in pairs. A pair of flanches is considered
one of the subordinaries.

FLANCHED
Flanched, a. (Her.)

Defn: Having flanches; -- said of an escutcheon with those bearings.

FLANCONADE
Flan`co*nade", n. Etym: [F.] (Fencing)

Defn: A thrust in the side.

FLANERIE
Flâ`ne*rie", n. [F. flânerie. See Flaneur.]

Defn: Lit., strolling; sauntering; hence, aimless; idleness; as,
intellectual flânerie.

FLANEUR
Fla`neur", n. Etym: [F., fr. flâner to stroll.]

Defn: One who strolls about aimlessly; a lounger; a loafer.

FLANG
Flang, n.

Defn: A miner's two-pointed pick.

FLANGE
Flange, n. Etym: [Prov. E. flange to project, flanch a projection.
See Flanch, Flank.]

1. An external or internal rib, or rim, for strength, as the flange
of an iron beam; or for a guide, as the flange of a car wheel (see
Car wheel.); or for attachment to another object, as the flange on
the end of a pipe, steam cylinder, etc. Knight.

2. A plate or ring to form a rim at the end of a pipe when fastened
to the pipe. Blind flange, a plate for covering or closing the end of
a pipe.
 -- Flange joint, a joint, as that of pipes, where the connecting
pieces have flanges by which the parts are bolted together. Knight. -
Flange rail, a rail with a flange on one side, to keep wheels, etc.
from running off.
 -- Flange turning, the process of forming a flange on a wrought iron
plate by bending and hammering it wh

FLANGE
Flange, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flanged; p. pr. & vb. n. Flanging.]
(Mach.)

Defn: To make a flange on; to furnish with a flange.

FLANGE
Flange, v. i.

Defn: To be bent into a flange.

FLANGED
Flanged, a.

Defn: Having a flange or flanges; as, a flanged wheel.

FLANK
Flank, n. Etym: [F. flanc, prob. fr. L. flaccus flabby, with n
inserted. Cf. Flaccid, Flanch, Flange.]

1. The fleshy or muscular part of the side of an animal, between the
rids and the hip. See Illust. of Beef.

2. (Mil.)
(a) The side of an army, or of any division of an army, as of a
brigade, regiment, or battalion; the extreme right or left; as, to
attack an enemy in flank is to attack him on the side.
When to right and left the front
Divided, and to either flank retired. Milton.
(b) (Fort.)

Defn: That part of a bastion which reaches from the curtain to the
face, and defends the curtain, the flank and face of the opposite
bastion; any part of a work defending another by a fire along the
outside of its parapet. See Illust. of Bastion.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The side of any building. Brands.

4. That part of the acting surface of a gear wheel tooth that lies
within the pitch line. Flank attack (Mil.), an attack upon the side
of an army or body of troops, distinguished from one upon its front
or rear.
 -- Flank company (Mil.), a certain number of troops drawn up on the
right or left of a battalion; usually grenadiers, light infantry, or
riflemen.
 -- Flank defense (Fort.), protection of a work against undue
exposure to an enemy's direct fire, by means of the fire from other
works, sweeping the ground in its front.
 -- Flank en potence (Mil.), any part of the right or left wing
formed at a projecting angle with the line.
 -- Flank files, the first men on the right, and the last on the
left, of a company, battalion, etc.
 -- Flank march, a march made parallel or obliquely to an enemy's
position, in order to turn it or to attack him on the flank.
 -- Flank movement, a change of march by an army, or portion of one,
in order to turn one or both wings of the enemy, or to take up a new
position.
 -- Flanks of a frontier, salient points in a national boundary,
strengthened to protect the frontier against hostile incursion.
 -- Flank patrol, detachments acting independently of the column of
an army, but patrolling along its flanks, to secure it against
surprise and to observe the movements of the enemy.

FLANK
Flank, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flanked; p. pr. & vb. n. Flanking.] Etym:
[Cf. F. flanquer. See Flank, n., and cf. Flanker, v. t.]

1. To stand at the flank or side of; to border upon.
Stately colonnades are flanked with trees. Pitt.

2. To overlook or command the flank of; to secure or guard the flank
of; to pass around or turn the flank of; to attack, or threaten to
attack; the flank of.

FLANK
Flank, v. i.

1. To border; to touch. Bp. Butler.

2. To be posted on the side.

FLANKER
Flank"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, flanks, as a skirmisher or a body of
troops sent out upon the flanks of an army toguard a line of march,
or a fort projecting so as to command the side of an assailing body.
They threw out flankers, and endeavored to dislodge their assailants.
W. Irwing.

FLANKER
Flank"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flankered; p. pr. & vb. n. Flankering.]
Etym: [See Flank, v. t.]

1. To defend by lateral fortifications. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

2. To attack sideways. [Obs.] Evelyn.

FLANNEL
Flan"nel, n. Etym: [F. flanelle, cf. OF. flaine a pillowcase, a
mattress; fr. W. gwlanen flannel, fr. gwlan wool; prob. akin to E.
wool. Cf. Wool.]

Defn: A soft, nappy, woolen cloth, of loose texture. Shak. Adam's
flannel. (Bot.) See under Adam.
 -- Canton flannel, Cotton flannel. See Cotton flannel, under Cotton.

FLANNELED
Flan"neled, a.

Defn: Covered or wrapped in flannel.

FLANNEL FLOWER
Flan"nel flow`er. (Bot.)
 (a) The common mullein.
 (b) A Brazilian apocynaceous vine (Macrosiphonia longiflora) having
woolly leaves.
 (c) An umbelliferous Australian flower (Actinotus helianthi), often
erroneously thought to be composite. The involucre looks as if cut
out of white flannel.

FLANNEN
Flan"nen, a.

Defn: Made or consisting of flannel. [Obs.] "Flannen robes." Dryden.

FLAP
Flap, n. Etym: [OE. flappe, flap, blow, bly-flap; cf. D. flap, and E.
flap, v.]

Defn: Anything broad and limber that hangs loose, or that is attached
by one side or end and is easily moved; as, the flap of a garment.
A cartilaginous flap upon the opening of the larynx. Sir T. Browne.

2. A hinged leaf, as of a table or shutter.

3. The motion of anything broad and loose, or a stroke or sound made
with it; as, the flap of a sail or of a wing.

4. pl. (Far.)

Defn: A disease in the lips of horses. Flap tile, a tile with a bent
up portion, to turn a corner or catch a drip.
 -- Flap valve (Mech.), a valve which opens and shuts upon one hinged
side; a clack valve.

FLAP
Flap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Flapping.] Etym:
[Prob. of imitative origin; cf. D. flappen, E. flap, n., flop,
flippant, fillip.]

1. To beat with a flap; to strike.
Yet let me flap this bug with gilded wings. Pope.

2. To move, as something broad and flaplike; as, to flap the wings;
to let fall, as the brim of a hat. To flap in the mouth, to taunt.
[Obs.] W. Cartwright.

FLAP
Flap, v. i.

1. To move as do wings, or as something broad or loose; to fly with
wings beating the air.
The crows flapped over by twos and threes. Lowell.

2. To fall and hang like a flap, as the brim of a hat, or other broad
thing. Gay.

FLAPDRAGON
Flap"drag`on, n.

1. A game in which the players catch raisins out burning brandy, and
swallow them blazing. Johnson.

2. The thing thus caught abd eaten. Johnson.
Cakes and ale, and flapdragtons and mummer's plays, and all the happy
sports of Christians night. C. Kingsley.

FLAPDRAGON
Flap"drag`on, v. t.

Defn: To swallow whole, as a flapdragon; to devour. [Obs.]
See how the sea flapdragoned it. Shak.

FLAP-EARED
Flap"-eared`, a.

Defn: Having broad, loose, dependent ears. Shak.

FLAPJACK
Flap"jack`, n.

1. A fklat cake turned on the griddle while cooking; a griddlecake or
pacake.

2. A fried dough cake containing fruit; a turnover. [Prov. Eng.]

FLAP-MOUTHED
Flap"-mouthed`, a.

Defn: Having broad, hangling lips. [R.] Shak.

FLAPPER
Flap"per, n.

1. One who, or that which, flaps.

2. See Flipper. "The flapper of a porpoise." Buckley. Flapper skate
(Zoöl.), a European skate (Raia intermedia).

FLARE
Flare, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Flared; p. pr. & vb. n. Flaring.] Etym:
[Cf. Norw. flara to blaze, flame, adorn with tinsel, dial. Sw. flasa
upp, and E. flash, or flacker.]

1. To burn with an unsteady or waving flame; as, the candle flares.

2. To shine out with a sudden and unsteady light; to emit a dazzling
or painfully bright light.

3. To shine out with gaudy colors; to flaunt; to be offensively
bright or showy.
With ribbons pendant, flaring about her head. Shak.

4. To be exosed to too much light. [Obs.]
Flaring in sunshine all the day. Prior.

5. To open or spread outwards; to project beyond the perpendicular;
as, the sides of a bowl flare; the bows of a ship flare. To flare up,
to become suddenly heated or excited; to burst into a passion.
[Colloq.] Thackeray.

FLARE
Flare, n.

1. An unsteady, broad, offensive light.

2. A spreading outward; as, the flare of a fireplace.

FLARE
Flare, n.

Defn: Leaf of lard. "Pig's flare." Dunglison.

FLARE-UP
Flare"-up`, n.

Defn: A sudden burst of anger or passion; an angry dispute. [Colloq.]

FLARING
Flar"ing, a.

1. That flares; flaming or blazing unsteadily; shining out with a
dazzling light.
His [the sun's] flaring beams. Milton.

2. Opening or speading outwards.

FLARINGLY
Flar"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a flaring manner.

FLASH
Flash, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Flashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Flashing.] Etym:
[Cf. OE. flaskien, vlaskien to pour, sprinkle, dial. Sw. flasa to
blaze, E. flush, flare.]

1. To burst or break forth with a sudden and transient flood of flame
and light; as, the lighting flashes vividly; the powder flashed.

2. To break forth, as a sudden flood of light; to burst instantly and
brightly on the sight; to show a momentary brilliancy; to come or
pass like a flash.
Names which have flashed and thundered as the watch words of
unumbered struggles. Talfourd.
The object is made to flash upon the eye of the mind. M. Arnold.
A thought floashed through me, which I clothed in act. Tennyson.

3. To burst forth like a sudden flame; to break out violently; to
rush hastily.
Every hour He flashes into one gross crime or other. Shak.
To flash in the pan, to fail of success. [Colloq.] See under Flash, a
burst of light. Bartlett.

Syn.
 -- Flash, Glitter, Gleam, Glisten, Glister. Flash differs from
glitter and gleam, denoting a flood or wide extent of light. The
latter words may express the issuing of light from a small object, or
from a pencil of rays. Flash differs from other words, also, in
denoting suddenness of appearance and disappearance. Flashing differs
from exploding or disploding in not being accompanied with a loud
report. To glisten, or glister, is to shine with a soft and fitful
luster, as eyes suffused with tears, or flowers wet with dew.

FLASH
Flash, v. t.

1. To send out in flashes; to cause to burst forth with sudden flame
or light.
The chariot of paternal Deity, Flashing thick flames. Milton.

2. To convey as by a flash; to light up, as by a sudden flame or
light; as, to flash a message along the wires; to flash conviction on
the mind.

3. (Glass Making)

Defn: To cover with a thin layer, as objects of glass with glass of a
different color. See Flashing, n., 3 (b).

4. To trick up in a showy manner.
Limning and flashing it with various dyes. A. Brewer.

5. Etym: [Perh. due to confusion between flash of light and plash,
splash.]

Defn: To strike and throw up large bodies of water from the surface;
to splash. [Obs.]
He rudely flashed the waves about. Spenser.
Flashed glass. See Flashing, n., 3.

FLASH
Flash, n.; pl. Flashes (.

1. A sudden burst of light; a flood of light instantaneously
appearing and disappearing; a momentary blaze; as, a flash of
lightning.

2. A sudden and brilliant burst, as of wit or genius; a momentary
brightness or show.
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind. Shak.
No striking sentiment, no flash of fancy. Wirt.

3. The time during which a flash is visible; an instant; a very brief
period.
The Persians and Macedonians had it for a flash. Bacon.

4. A preparation of capsicum, burnt sugar, etc., for coloring and
giving a fictious strength to liquors. Flash light, or Flashing
light, a kind of light shown by lighthouses, produced by the
revolution of reflectors, so as to show a flash of light every few
seconds, alternating with periods of dimness. Knight.
 -- Flash in the pan, the flashing of the priming in the pan of a
flintlock musket without discharging the piece; hence, sudden,
spasmodic effort that accomplishes nothing.

FLASH
Flash, a.

1. Showy, but counterfeit; cheap, pretentious, and vulgar; as, flash
jewelry; flash finery.

2. Wearing showy, counterfeit ornaments; vulgarly pretentious; as,
flash people; flash men or women; -- applied especially to thieves,
gamblers, and prostitutes that dress in a showy way and wear much
cheap jewelry. Flash house, a house frequented by flash people, as
thieves and whores; hence, a brothel. "A gang of footpads, reveling
with their favorite beauties at a flash house." Macaulay.

FLASH
Flash, n.

Defn: Slang or cant of thieves and prostitutes.

FLASH
Flash, n. Etym: [OE. flasche, flaske; cf. OF. flache, F. flaque.]

1. A pool. [Prov. Eng.] Haliwell.

2. (Engineering)

Defn: A reservoir and sluiceway beside a navigable stream, just above
a shoal, so that the stream may pour in water as boats pass, and thus
bear them over the shoal. Flash wheel (Mech.), a paddle wheel made to
revolve in a breast or curved water way, by which water is lifted
from the lower to the higher level.

FLASHBOARD
Flash"board`, n.

Defn: A board placed temporarily upon a milldam, to raise the water
in the pond above its usual level; a flushboard. [U.S.]

FLASH BOILER
Flash boiler.

Defn: A variety of water-tube boiler, used chiefly in steam
automobiles, consisting of a nest of strong tubes with very little
water space, kept nearly red hot so that the water as it trickles
drop by drop into the tubes is immediately flashed into steam and
superheated.

FLASH BURNER
Flash burner.

Defn: A gas burner with a device for lighting by an electric spark.

FLASHER
Flash"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, flashes.

2. A man of more appearance of wit than reality.

3. (Zoöl.)
(a) A large sparoid fish of the Atlantic coast and all tropical seas
(Lobotes Surinamensis).
(b) The European red-backed shrile (Lanius collurio); -- called also
flusher.

FLASHILY
Flash"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a flashy manner; with empty show.

FLASHINESS
Flash"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being flashy.

FLASHING
Flash"ing, n.

1. (Engineering)

Defn: The creation of an artifical flood by the sudden letting in of
a body of water; -- called also flushing.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Pieces of metal, built into the joints of a wall, so as to lap
over the edge of the gutters or to cover the edge of the roofing;
also, similar pieces used to cover the valleys of roofs of slate,
shingles, or the like. By extension, the metal covering of ridges and
hips of roofs; also, in the United States, the protecting of angles
and breaks in walls of frame houses with waterproof material, tarred
paper, or the like. Cf. Filleting.

3. (Glass Making)
(a) The reheating of an article at the furnace aperture during
manufacture to restore its plastic condition; esp., the reheating of
a globe of crown glass to allow it to assume a flat shape as it is
rotated.
(b) A mode of covering transparent white glass with a film of colored
glass. Knight. Flashing point (Chem.), that degree of temperature at
which a volatile oil gives off vapor in sufficient quantity to burn,
or flash, on the approach of a flame, used as a test of the
comparative safety of oils, esp. kerosene; a flashing point of 100º
F. is regarded as a fairly safe standard. The burning point of the
oil is usually from ten to thirty degree above the flashing point of
its vapor.

FLASHY
Flash"y, a.

1. Dazzling for a moment; making a momentary show of brilliancy;
transitorily bright.
A little flashy and transient pleasure. Barrow.

2. Fiery; vehement; impetuous.
A temper always flashy. Burke.

3. Showy; gay; gaudy; as, a flashy dress.

4. Without taste or spirit.
Lean and flashy songs. Milton.

FLASK
Flask, n. Etym: [AS. flasce, flaxe; akin to D. flesch, OHG. flasca,
G. flasche, Icel. & Sw. flaska, Dan. flaske, OF. flasche, LL. flasca,
flasco; of uncertain origin; cf. L. vasculum, dim. of vas a vessel,
Gr. Flagon, Flasket.]

1. A small bottle-shaped vessel for holding fluids; as, a flask of
oil or wine.

2. A narrow-necked vessel of metal or glass, used for various
purposes; as of sheet metal, to carry gunpowder in; or of wrought
iron, to contain quicksilver; or of glass, to heat water in, etc.

3. A bed in a gun carriage. [Obs.] Bailey.

4. (Founding)

Defn: The wooden or iron frame which holds the sand, etc., forming
the mold used in a foundry; it consists of two or more parts; viz.,
the cope or top; sometimes, the cheeks, or middle part; and the drag,
or bottom part. When there are one or more cheeks, the flask is
called a three part flask, four part flask, etc. Erlenmeyer flask, a
thin glass flask, flat-bottomed and cone-shaped to allow of safely
shaking its contents laterally without danger of spilling; -- so
called from Erlenmeyer, a German chemist who invented it.
 -- Florence flask. Etym: [From Florence in Italy.] (a) Same as
Betty, n., 3. (b) A glass flask, round or pear-shaped, with round or
flat bottom, and usually very thin to allow of heating solutions.
 -- Pocket flask, a kind of pocket dram bottle, often covered with
metal or leather to protect it from breaking.

FLASKET
Flask"et, n. Etym: [Cf. W. fflasged a vessel of straw or wickerwork,
fflasg flask, basket, and E. flask.]

1. A long, shallow basket, with two handles. [Eng.]
In which they gathered flowers to fill their flasket. Spenser.

2. A small flask.

3. A vessel in which viands are served. [Obs.] Pope.

FLAT
Flat, a. [Compar. Flatter; superl. Flattest.] Etym: [Akin to Icel.
flatr, Sw. flat, Dan. flad, OHG. flaz, and AS. flet floor, G. flötz
stratum, layer.]

1. Having an even and horizontal surface, or nearly so, without
prominences or depressions; level without inclination; plane.
Though sun and moon Were in the flat sea sunk. Milton.

2. Lying at full length, or spread out, upon the ground; level with
the ground or earth; prostrate; as, to lie flat on the ground; hence,
fallen; laid low; ruined; destroyed.
What ruins kingdoms, and lays cities flat! Milton.
I feel . . . my hopes all flat. Milton.

3. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Wanting relief; destitute of variety; without points of
prominence and striking interest.
A large part of the work is, to me, very flat. Coleridge.

4. Tasteless; stale; vapid; insipid; dead; as, fruit or drink flat to
the taste.

5. Unanimated; dull; uninteresting; without point or spirit;
monotonous; as, a flat speech or composition.
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable Seem to me all the uses of
this world. Shak.

6. Lacking liveliness of commercial exchange and dealings; depressed;
dull; as, the market is flat.

7. Clear; unmistakable; peremptory; absolute; positive; downright.
Flat burglary as ever was committed. Shak.
A great tobacco taker too, -- that's flat. Marston.

8. (Mus.)
(a) Below the true pitch; hence, as applied to intervals, minor, or
lower by a half step; as, a flat seventh; A flat.
(b) Not sharp or shrill; not acute; as, a flat sound.

9. (Phonetics)

Defn: Sonant; vocal; -- applied to any one of the sonant or vocal
consonants, as distinguished from a nonsonant (or sharp) consonant.
Flat arch. (Arch.) See under Arch, n., 2. (b).
 -- Flat cap, cap paper, not folded. See under Paper.
 -- Flat chasing, in fine art metal working, a mode of ornamenting
silverware, etc., producing figures by dots and lines made with a
punching tool. Knight.
 -- Flat chisel, a sculptor's chisel for smoothing.
 -- Flat file, a file wider than its thickness, and of rectangular
section. See File.
 -- Flat nail, a small, sharp-pointed, wrought nail, with a flat,
thin head, larger than a tack. Knight.
 -- Flat paper, paper which has not been folded.
 -- Flat rail, a railroad rail consisting of a simple flat bar spiked
to a longitudinal sleeper.
 -- Flat rods (Mining), horizontal or inclined connecting rods, for
transmitting motion to pump rods at a distance. Raymond.
 -- Flat rope, a rope made by plaiting instead of twisting; gasket;
sennit.

Note: Some flat hoisting ropes, as for mining shafts, are made by
sewing together a number of ropes, making a wide, flat band. Knight.
 -- Flat space. (Geom.) See Euclidian space.
 -- Flat stitch, the process of wood engraving. [Obs.] -- Flat tint
(Painting), a coat of water color of one uniform shade.
 -- To fall flat (Fig.), to produce no effect; to fail in the
intended effect; as, his speech fell flat.
Of all who fell by saber or by shot, Not one fell half so flat as
Walter Scott. Lord Erskine.

FLAT
Flat, adv.

1. In a flat manner; directly; flatly.
Sin is flat opposite to the Almighty. Herbert.

2. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: Without allowance for accrued interest. [Broker's Cant]

FLAT
Flat, n.

1. A level surface, without elevation, relief, or prominences; an
extended plain; specifically, in the United States, a level tract
along the along the banks of a river; as, the Mohawk Flats.
Envy is as the sunbeams that beat hotter upon a bank, or steep rising
ground, than upon a flat. Bacon.

2. A level tract lying at little depth below the surface of water, or
alternately covered and left bare by the tide; a shoal; a shallow; a
strand.
Half my power, this night Passing these flats, are taken by the tide.
Shak.

3. Something broad and flat in form; as:
(a) A flat-bottomed boat, without keel, and of small draught.
(b) A straw hat, broad-brimmed and low-crowned.
(c) (Railroad Mach.) A car without a roof, the body of which is a
platform without sides; a platform car.
(d) A platform on wheel, upon which emblematic designs, etc., are
carried in processions.

4. The flat part, or side, of anything; as, the broad side of a
blade, as distinguished from its edge.

5. (Arch.)

Defn: A floor, loft, or story in a building; especially, a floor of a
house, which forms a complete residence in itself.

6. (Mining)

Defn: A horizontal vein or ore deposit auxiliary to a main vein;
also, any horizontal portion of a vein not elsewhere horizontal.
Raymond.

7. A dull fellow; a simpleton; a numskull. [Colloq.]
Or if you can not make a speech, Because you are a flat. Holmes.

8. (Mus.)

Defn: A character [] before a note, indicating a tone which is a half
step or semitone lower.

9. (Geom.)

Defn: A homaloid space or extension.

FLAT
Flat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flatted; p. pr. & vb. n. Flatting.]

1. To make flat; to flatten; to level.

2. To render dull, insipid, or spiritless; to depress.
Passions are allayed, appetites are flatted. Barrow.

3. To depress in tone, as a musical note; especially, to lower in
pitch by half a tone.

FLAT
Flat, v. i.

1. To become flat, or flattened; to sink or fal to an even surface.
Sir W. Temple.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: To fall form the pitch. To flat out, to fail from a promising
beginning; to make a bad ending; to disappoint expectations.
[Colloq.]

FLATBILL
Flat"bill`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any bird of the genus Flatyrynchus. They belong to the family
of flycatchers.

FLATBOAT
Flat"boat`, n.

Defn: A boat with a flat bottom and square ends; -- used for the
transportation of bulky freight, especially in shallow waters.

FLAT-BOTTOMED
Flat"-bot`tomed, a.

Defn: Having an even lower surface or bottom; as, a flat-bottomed
boat.

FLAT-CAP
Flat"-cap`, n.

Defn: A kind of low-crowned cap formerly worn by all classes in
England, and continued in London after disuse elsewhere; -- hence, a
citizen of London. Marston.

FLATFISH
Flat"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any fish of the family Pleuronectidæ; esp., the winter flounder
(Pleuronectes Americanus). The flatfishes have the body flattened,
swim on the side, and have eyes on one side, as the flounder, turbot,
and halibut. See Flounder.

FLAT FOOT
Flat" foot`. (Med.)

Defn: A foot in which the arch of the instep is flattened so that the
entire sole of the foot rests upon the ground; also, the deformity,
usually congential, exhibited by such a foot; splayfoot.

FLAT-FOOTED
Flat"-foot`ed, a.

1. Having a flat foot, with little or no arch of the instep.

2. Firm-footed; determined. [Slang, U.S.]

FLATHEAD
Flat"head`, a.

Defn: Characterized by flatness of head, especially that produced by
artificial means, as a certain tribe of American Indians.

FLATHEAD
Flat"head`, n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A Chinook Indian. See Chinook, n., 1.

FLAT-HEADED
Flat"-head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a head with a flattened top; as, a flat-headed nail.

FLATIRON
Flat"i`ron, n.

Defn: An iron with a flat, smooth surface for ironing clothes.

FLATIVE
Fla"tive, a. Etym: [L. flare, flatum to blow.]

Defn: Producing wind; flatulent. [Obs.] A. Brewer.

FLATLING
Flat"ling, adv. Etym: [Flat, a. + adverbial suff. -ing.]

Defn: With the flat side, as of a sword; flatlong; in a prostrate
position. [Obs.] Spenser.

FLATLONG
Flat"long

Defn: ; 115), adv. With the flat side downward; not edgewise. Shak.

FLATLY
Flat"ly, adv.

Defn: In a flat manner; evenly; horizontally; without spirit; dully;
frigidly; peremptori;y; positively, plainly. "He flatly refused his
aid." Sir P. Sidney.
He that does the works of religion slowly, flatly, and without
appetite. Jer. Taylor.

FLATNESS
Flat"ness, n.

1. The quality or state of being flat.

2. Eveness of surface; want of relief or prominence; the state of
being plane or level.

3. Want of vivacity or spirit; prostration; dejection; depression.

4. Want of variety or flavor; dullness; inspidity.

5. Depression of tone; the state of being below the true pitch; --
opposed to sharpness or acuteness.

FLATOUR
Fla*tour", n. Etym: [OF.]

Defn: A flatterer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

FLATTEN
Flat"ten, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flattened; p. pr. & vb. n. Flattening.]
Etym: [From Flat, a.]

1. To reduce to an even surface or one approaching evenness; to make
flat; to level; to make plane.

2. To throw down; to bring to the ground; to prostrate; hence, to
depress; to deject; to dispirit.

3. To make vapid or insipid; to render stale.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: To lower the pitch of; to cause to sound less sharp; to let
fall from the pitch. To flatten a sail (Naut.), to set it more nearly
fore-and-aft of the vessel.
 -- Flattening oven, in glass making, a heated chamber in which split
glass cylinders are flattened for window glass.

FLATTEN
Flat"ten, v. i.

Defn: To become or grow flat, even, depressed dull, vapid,
spiritless, or depressed below pitch.

FLATTER
Flat"ter, n.

1. One who, or that which, makes flat or flattens.

2. (Metal Working)
(a) A flat-faced fulling hammer.
(b) A drawplate with a narrow, rectangular orifice, for drawing flat
strips, as watch springs, etc.

FLATTER
Flat"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flattered; p. pr. & vb. n. Flattering.]
Etym: [OE. flateren, cf. OD. flatteren; akin to G. flattern to
flutter, Icel. fla to fawn, flatter: cf. F. flatter. Cf. Flitter,
Flutter, Flattery.]

1. To treat with praise or blandishments; to gratify or attempt to
gratify the self-love or vanity of, esp. by artful and interested
commendation or attentions; to blandish; to cajole; to wheedle.
When I tell him he hates flatterers, He says he does, being then most
flattered. Shak.
A man that flattereth his neighbor, spreadeth a net for his feet.
Prov. xxix. 5.
Others he flattered by asking their advice. Prescott.

2. To raise hopes in; to encourage or favorable, but sometimes
unfounded or deceitful, representations.

3. To portray too favorably; to give a too favorable idea of; as, his
portrait flatters him.

FLATTER
Flat"ter, v. i.

Defn: To use flattery or insincere praise.
If it may stand him more in stead to lie, Say and unsay, feign,
flatter, or adjure. Milton.

FLATTERER
Flat"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who flatters.
The most abject flaterers degenerate into the greatest tyrants.
Addison.

FLATTERING
Flat"ter*ing, a.

Defn: That flatters (in the various senses of the verb); as, a
flattering speech.
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul. Shak.
A flattering painter, who made it his care, To draw men as they ought
be, not as they are. Goldsmith.

FLATTERINGLY
Flat"ter*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With flattery.

FLATTERY
Flat"ter*y, n.; pl. Flatteries. Etym: [OE. flaterie, OF. flaterie, F.
flaterie, fr. flater to flatter, F. flatter; of uncertain origin. See
Flatter, v. t.]

Defn: The act or practice of flattering; the act of pleasing by
artiful commendation or compliments; adulation; false, insincere, or
excessive praise.
Just praise is only a debt, but flattery is a present. Rambler.
Flattery corrupts both the receiver and the giver. Burke.

Syn.
 -- Adulation; compliment; obsequiousness. See Adulation.

FLATTING
Flat"ting, n.

1. The process or operation of making flat, as a cylinder of glass by
opening it out.

2. A mode of painting,in which the paint, being mixed with
turpentine, leaves the work without gloss. Gwilt.

3. A method of preserving gilding unburnished, by touching with size.
Knolles.

4. The process of forming metal into sheets by passing it between
rolls. Flatting coat, a coat of paint so put on as to have no gloss.
 -- Flatting furnace. Same as Flattening oven, under Flatten.
 -- Flatting mill. (a) A rolling mill producing sheet metal; esp., in
mints, the ribbon from which the planchets are punched. (b) A mill in
which grains of metal are flatted by steel rolls, and reduced to
metallic dust, used for purposes of ornamentation.

FLATTISH
Flat"tish, a.

Defn: Somewhat flat. Woodward.

FLATULENCE; FLATULENCY
Flat"u*lence, Flat"u*len*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. flatulence.]

Defn: The state or quality of being flatulent.

FLATULENT
Flat"u*lent, a. Etym: [L. flatus a blowing, flatus ventris windiness,
flatulence, fr. flare to blow: cf. F. flatulent. See Blow.]

1. Affected with flatus or gases generated in the alimentary canal;
windy.

2. Generating, or tending to generate, wind in the stomach.
Vegetables abound more with aërial particles than animal substances,
and therefore are more flatulent. Arbuthnot.

3. Turgid with flatus; as, a flatulent tumor. Quincy.

4. Pretentious without substance or reality; puffy; empty; vain; as,
a flatulent vanity.
He is too flatulent sometimes, and sometimes too dry. Dryden.

FLATULENTLY
Flat"u*lent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a flatulent manner; with flatulence.

FLATUOSITY
Flat`u*os"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. flatuosité.]

Defn: Flatulence. [Obs.] Bacon.

FLATUOUS
Flat"u*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. flatueux.]

Defn: Windy; generating wind. [Obs.] Bacon.

FLATUS
Fla"tus, n.; pl. E. Flatuses, L. Flatus. Etym: [L., fr. flare to
blow.]

1. A breath; a puff of wind. Clarke.

2. Wind or gas generated in the stomach or other cavities of the
body. Quincy.

FLATWARE
Flat"ware`, n.

Defn: Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are more
or less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware.

FLATWARE
Flat"ware`, n.

Defn: Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are more
or less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware.
[Webster 1913 Suppl.]

FLATWISE
Flat"wise`, a. or adv.

Defn: With the flat side downward, or next to another object; not
edgewise.

FLATWORM
Flat"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any worm belonging to the Plathelminthes; also, sometimes
applied to the planarians.

FLAUNDRISH
Flaun"drish ( or ), a.

Defn: Flemish. [Obs.]

FLAUNT
Flaunt ( or ; 277), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Flaunted; p. pr. & vb. n..
Flaunting.] Etym: [Cf. dial. G. flandern to flutter, wave; perh. akin
to E. flatter, flutter.]

Defn: To throw or spread out; to flutter; to move ostentatiously; as,
a flaunting show.
You flaunt about the streets in your new gilt chariot. Arbuthnot.
One flaunts in rags, one flutters in brocade. Pope.

FLAUNT
Flaunt, v. t.

Defn: To display ostentatiously; to make an impudent show of.

FLAUNT
Flaunt, n.

Defn: Anything displayed for show. [Obs.]
In these my borrowed flaunts. Shak.

FLAUNTINGLY
Flaunt"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a flaunting way.

FLAUTIST
Flau"tist, n. Etym: [It. flauto a flute See Flute.]

Defn: A player on the flute; a flutist.

FLAUTO
Flau"to, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A flute. Flaute piccolo ( Etym: [It., little flute], an octave
flute.
 -- Flauto traverso ( Etym: [It., transverse flute], the German
flute, held laterally, instead of being played, like the old flûte a
bec, with a mouth piece at the end.

FLAVANILINE
Fla*van"i*line ( or ; 104), n. Etym: [L. flavus yellow + E. aniline.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A yellow, crystalline, organic dyestuff, C16H14N2, of artifical
production. It is a strong base, and is a complex derivative of
aniline and quinoline.

FLAVESCENT
Fla*ves"cent, a. Etym: [L. flavescens, p.pr. of flavescere to turn
yellow.]

Defn: Turning yellow; yellowish.

FLAVICOMOUS
Fla*vic"o*mous, a. Etym: [L. flavicomus; flavus yellow + coma hair.]

Defn: Having yellow hair. [R.]

FLAVIN
Fla"vin, n. Etym: [L. flavus yellow.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow, vegetable dyestuff, resembling quercitron.

FLAVINE
Fla"vine (; 104), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow, crystalline, organic base, C13H12N2O, obtained
artificially.

FLAVOL
Fla"vol, n. Etym: [L. flavus yellow + -oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from anthraquinone,
and regarded as a hydroxyl derivative of it.

FLAVOR
Fla"vor, n. Etym: [OF. fleur, flaur (two syllables), odor, cf. F.
fleurer to emit an odor, It. flatore a bad odor, prob. fr. L. flare
to bow, whence the sense of exhalation. Cf. Blow.] [Written also
flavour.]

1. That quality of anything which affects the smell; odor;
fragrances; as, the flavor of a rose.

2. That quality of anything which affects the taste; that quality
which gratifies the palate; relish; zest; savor; as, the flavor of
food or drink.

3. That which imparts to anything a peculiar odor or taste,
gratifying to the sense of smell, or the nicer perceptions of the
palate; a substance which flavors.

4. That quality which gives character to any of the productions of
literature or the fine arts.

FLAVOR
Fla"vor, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flavored; p. pr. & vb. n. Flavoring.]

Defn: To give flavor to; to add something (as salt or a spice) to, to
give character or zest.

FLAVORED
Fla"vored, a.

Defn: Having a distinct flavor; as, high-flavored wine.

FLAVORLESS
Fla"vor*less, a.

Defn: Without flavor; tasteless.

FLAVOROUS
Fla"vor*ous, a.

Defn: Imparting flavor; pleasant to the taste or smell; sapid.
Dryden.

FLAVOUS
Fla"vous, a. Etym: [L. flavus.]

Defn: Yellow. [Obs.]

FLAW
Flaw, n. Etym: [OE. flai, flaw flake; cf. Sw. flaga flaw, crack,
breach, flake, D. vlaag gust of wind, Norw. flage, flaag, and E. flag
a flat stone.]

1. A crack or breach; a gap or fissure; a defect of continuity or
cohesion; as, a flaw in a knife or a vase.
This heart Shall break into a hundered thousand flaws. Shak.

2. A defect; a fault; as, a flaw in reputation; a flaw in a will, in
a deed, or in a statute.
Has not this also its flaws and its dark side South.

3. A sudden burst of noise and disorder; a tumult; uproar; a quarrel.
[Obs.]
And deluges of armies from the town Came pouring in; I heard the
mighty flaw. Dryden.

4. A sudden burst or gust of wind of short duration.
Snow, and hail, and stormy gust and flaw. Milton.
Like flaws in summer laying lusty corn. Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- Blemish; fault; imoerfection; spot; speck.

FLAW
Flaw, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Flawed; p. pr. & vb. n. Flawing.]

1. To crack; to make flaws in.
The brazen caldrons with the frosts are flawed. Dryden.

2. To break; to violate; to make of no effect. [Obs.]
France hath flawed the league. Shak.

FLAWLESS
Flaw"less, a.

Defn: Free from flaws. Boyle.

FLAWN
Flawn, n. Etym: [OF. flaon, F. flan, LL. flado, fr. OHG. flado, G.
fladen, a sort of pancake; cf. Gr. Place.]

Defn: A sort of flat custard or pie. [Obs.] Tusser.

FLAWTER
Flaw"ter, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Flay.]

Defn: To scrape o [Obs.] Johnson.

FLAWY
Flaw"y, a.

1. Full of flaws or cracks; broken; defective; faulty. Johnson.

2. Subject to sudden flaws or gusts of wind.

FLAX
Flax, n. Etym: [AS. fleax; akin to D. vlas, OHG. flahs, G. flachs,
and prob. to flechten to braid, plait,m twist, L. plectere to weave,
plicare to fold, Gr. Ply.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Linum, esp. the L. usitatissimum, which
has a single, slender stalk, about a foot and a half high, with blue
flowers. The fiber of the bark is used for making thread and cloth,
called linen, cambric, lawn, lace, etc. Linseed oil is expressed from
the seed.

2. The skin or fibrous part of the flax plant, when broken and
cleaned by hatcheling or combing. Earth flax (Min.), amianthus.
 -- Flax brake, a machine for removing the woody portion of flax from
the fibrous.
 -- Flax comb, a hatchel, hackle, or heckle.
 -- Flax cotton, the fiber of flax, reduced by steeping in
bicarbinate of soda and acidulated liquids, and prepared for
bleaching and spinning like cotton. Knight.
 -- Flax dresser, one who breaks and swingles flax, or prepares it
for the spinner.
 -- Flax mill, a mill or factory where flax is spun or linen
manufactured.
 -- Flax puller, a machine for pulling flax plants in the field.
 -- Flax wench. (a) A woman who spins flax. [Obs.] (b) A prostitute.
[Obs.] Shak.
 -- Mountain flax (Min.), amianthus.
 -- New Zealand flax (Bot.) See Flax-plant.